CODE OF ORDINANCES
OF THE
CITY OF HUMBOLDT, IOWA
Adopted July 11, 2019, by Ordinance No. 2019-02
Prepared By:   Local Government Professional Services, Inc.
DBA Iowa Codification
P. O. Box 244
114 E 5th Street
Storm Lake, Iowa 50588
(641) 355-4072
www.sc-ic.com
SUPPLEMENT RECORD
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date     Subject
Oct-20    65.02(29-30)            2019-03  7-15-19  Stop or Yield Required
          165.12(1)               2019-04  8-19-19  Uses in the C-2 General
                                                    Commercial District
          7.05                    2020-01  1-6-20   Oeprating Budget
                                                    Preparation
          136.20                  2020-02  2-18-20  Canopy Lighting Charges
                                                    Rezoning from I-1 (General
          Ch. 165                 2020-03  4-6-20   Industrial) to R-3
                                                    (Multiple Family
                                                    Residential)
          Ch. 9                   2020-04  4-6-20   North Residential Urban
                                                    Renewal Area
          92.02                   2020-05  6-1-20   Water Rates
Jun-22    69.14                   2020-06  10-19-20 Parking Prohibited During
                                                    Certain Hours
          30.06                   2020-07  12-7-20  Police Chief Appointment
          21.03                   2020-08  12-7-20  City Administrator Duties
                                                    Rezoning from C-2 (General
          Ch. 165                 2021-01  9-20-21  Commercial) to I-1 (General
                                                    Industrial)
                                  2021-02           Not Used
          3.02                    2021-03  12-20-21 Wards Voting Precincts
          Ch. 160                 2022-01  3-7-22   Floodplain Management
Jan-24    92.10                   2023-01  1-3-23   Temporary Vacancy
          165.19                  2023-02  1-16-23  Special Use Permits
          65.02(31)               2023-03  1-16-23  Stop or Yield Required
          23.01                   2023-04  3-6-23   Planning and Zoning
                                                    Commission
                                                    Rezoning from R-1 (Single
          Ch. 165                 2023-05  6-5-23   Family Residential) to C-2
                                                    (General Commercial)
                                                    Rezoning from R-1 (Single
          Ch. 165                 2023-06  6-5-23   Family Residential) to C-2
                                                    (General Commercial)
                                                    Amendment No. 4 to the
          Ch. 9                   2023-07  8-21-23  South Residential Urban
                                                    Renewal Plan
                                                    Amendment No. 9 to the
          Ch. 9                   2023-08  8-21-23  Northside Urban Renewal
                                                    Plan
          7.05; 7.08              2023-09  10-2-23  Fiscal Management
                                                    Liquor Licenses and
          120.04; 120.05; 121.05  2023-10  10-2-23  Cigarette and Tobacco
                                                    Permits
                                                    Rezoning from R-1 (Single
          Ch. 165                 2023-11  11-20-23 Family Residential) to I-1
                                                    (General Industrial)
 
 
CHAPTER 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES
 
1.01 Title                  1.08 Amendments
1.02 Definitions            1.09 Catchlines and Notes
1.03 City Powers            1.10 Altering Code
1.04 Indemnity              1.11 Severability
1.05 Personal Injuries      1.12 Warrants
1.06 Rules of Construction  1.13 General Standards for Action
1.07 Extension of Authority 1.14 Standard Penalty
 
1.01   TITLE.
This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Humboldt, Iowa.
1.02   DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in this Code of Ordinances are defined in the Code
of Iowa, such definitions apply to their use in this Code of Ordinances unless
such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council
or repugnant to the context of the provision. Other words and phrases used
herein have the following meanings, unless specifically defined otherwise in
another portion of this Code of Ordinances or unless such construction would be
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council or repugnant to the
context of the provision:
   1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street, affording
secondary means of access to abutting property.
   2.   “City” means the City of Humboldt, Iowa.
   3.   “Clerk” means the city clerk of Humboldt, Iowa.
   4.   “Code” means the specific chapter of this Code of Ordinances in which a
specific subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such as the
Building Code and/or a standard code adopted by reference).
   5.   “Code of Ordinances” means the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Humboldt, Iowa.
   6.   “Council” means the city council of Humboldt, Iowa.
   7.   “County” means Humboldt County, Iowa.
   8.   “May” confers a power.
   9.   “Measure” means an ordinance, amendment, resolution or motion.
   10.   “Must” states a requirement.
   11.   “Occupant” or “tenant,” applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
   12.   “Ordinances” means the ordinances of the City of Humboldt, Iowa, as
embodied in this Code of Ordinances, ordinances not repealed by the ordinance
adopting this Code of Ordinances, and those enacted hereafter.
   13.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust or other
legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.
   14.   “Public way” includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.
   15.   “Shall” imposes a duty.
   16.   “Sidewalk” means that surfaced portion of the street between the edge
of the traveled way, surfacing, or curb line and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   17.   “State” means the State of Iowa.
   18.   “Statutes” or “laws” means the latest edition of the Code of Iowa, as
amended.
   19.   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
Words that are not defined in this Code of Ordinances or by the Code of Iowa
have their ordinary meaning unless such construction would be inconsistent with
the manifest intent of the Council, or repugnant to the context of the
provision.
1.03   CITY POWERS.
The City may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if not
inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any power and
perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the rights,
privileges, and property of the City and of its residents, and to preserve and
improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and convenience of its
residents, and each and every provision of this Code of Ordinances shall be
deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and the performance of the
foregoing functions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.1)
1.04   INDEMNITY.
The applicant for any permit or license under this Code of Ordinances, by
making such application, assumes and agrees to pay for any injury to or death
of any person or persons whomsoever, and any loss of or damage to property
whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however arising
from or related to, directly, indirectly, or remotely, the issuance of the
permit or license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of such
applicant, or the agents, employees, or servants of such applicant, to abide by
or comply with any of the provisions of this Code of Ordinances or the terms
and conditions of such permit or license, and such applicant, by making such
application, forever agrees to indemnify the City and its officers, agents, and
employees, and agrees to save them harmless from any and all claims, demands,
lawsuits, or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage, injury, or death,
including all costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason of the foregoing.
The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a part of any permit or
license issued under this Code of Ordinances or any other ordinance of the
City, whether expressly recited therein or not.
1.05   PERSONAL INJURIES.
When action is brought against the City for personal injuries alleged to have
been caused by its negligence, the City may notify in writing any person by
whose negligence it claims the injury was caused. The notice shall state the
pendency of the action, the name of the plaintiff, the name and location of the
court where the action is pending, a brief statement of the alleged facts from
which the cause arose, that the City believes that the person notified is
liable to it for any judgment rendered against the City, and asking the person
to appear and defend. A judgment obtained in the suit is conclusive in any
action by the City against any person so notified, as to the existence of the
defect or other cause of the injury or damage, as to the liability of the City
to the plaintiff in the first named action, and as to the amount of the damage
or injury. The City may maintain an action against the person notified to
recover the amount of the judgment together with all the expenses incurred by
the City in the suit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.14)
1.06   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the rules of statutory
construction as set forth in Chapter 4 of the Code of Iowa shall be utilized to
ascertain the intent of the Council, with the understanding that the term
“statute” as used therein will be deemed to be synonymous with the term
“ordinance” when applied to this Code of Ordinances.
1.07   EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this Code of Ordinances, the provision shall be construed as
authorizing performance by a regular assistant, subordinate, or a duly
authorized designee of said officer or employee.
1.08   AMENDMENTS.
All ordinances that amend, repeal, or in any manner affect this Code of
Ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, subsection, or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.2)
1.09   CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code of Ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section and subsection), editor’s notes, cross references,
and State law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself,
contained in this Code of Ordinances, do not constitute any part of the law and
are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement, or clarify the contents
of a section.
1.10   ALTERING CODE.
It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this Code of Ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code of
Ordinances in any manner that will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented.
1.11   SEVERABILITY.
If any section, provision, or part of this Code of Ordinances is adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity of
this Code of Ordinances as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof
not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
1.12   WARRANTS.
If consent to enter upon or inspect any building, structure, or property
pursuant to a municipal ordinance is withheld by any person having the lawful
right to exclude, the City officer or employee having the duty to enter upon or
conduct the inspection may apply to the Iowa District Court in and for the
County, pursuant to Section 808.14 of the Code of Iowa, for an administrative
search warrant. No owner, operator or occupant, or any other person having
charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, rooming unit, structure,
building, or premises shall fail or neglect, after presentation of a search
warrant, to permit entry therein by the municipal officer or employee.
1.13   GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACTION.
Whenever this Code of Ordinances grants any discretionary power to the Council
or any commission, board, or officer or employee of the City and does not
specify standards to govern the exercise of the power, the power shall be
exercised in light of the following standard: The discretionary power to grant,
deny, or revoke any matter shall be considered in light of the facts and
circumstances then existing and as may be reasonably foreseeable, and due
consideration shall be given to the impact upon the public health, safety and
welfare, and the decision shall be that of a reasonably prudent person under
similar circumstances in the exercise of the police power.
1.14   STANDARD PENALTY.
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this Code of Ordinances for
violation of any particular provision, section, or chapter, any person failing
to perform a duty required by this Code of Ordinances or otherwise violating
any provision of this Code of Ordinances or any rule or regulation adopted
herein by reference shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of at least
$65.00 but not to exceed $625.00.
As an alternative to any other remedies or penalties authorized by this Code,
the City may issue a Notice of Violation in the case of a violation of any of
the following provisions:
   1.   Failure to remove accumulations of ice and snow on a sidewalk pursuant
to §136.03.
   2.   Failure to maintain a premises as required by §145.15 of the Humboldt
Property Maintenance Code.
The Notice of Violation may be given by posting it conspicuously at the subject
property, or by mailing it by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
owner of the subject property as disclosed by the County Auditor’s records.
In the event a Notice of Violation is utilized, the maximum fine thereunder
shall be $50.00 for each separate violation. † 1
 
Notes
1 † EDITOR’S NOTE: For civil penalty for violations of this Code of Ordinances, see
  Chapter 4.
CHAPTER 2
CHARTER
 
2.01 Title                              2.04 Number and Term of Council
2.02 Form of Government                 2.05 Term of Mayor
2.03 Powers and Duties of City Officers 2.06 Copies on File
 
2.01   TITLE.
This chapter may be cited as the charter of the City of Humboldt, Iowa.
2.02   FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
The form of government of the City is the Mayor-Council form of government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
2.03   POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
The Council and Mayor and other City officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by State law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the City.
2.04   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of two Council Members elected at large and one Council
Member from each of three wards as established by this Code of Ordinances,
elected for overlapping terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.05   TERM OF MAYOR.
The Mayor is elected for a term of two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.06   COPIES ON FILE.
The Clerk shall keep an official copy of the charter on file with the official
records of the Clerk and the Secretary of State, and shall keep copies of the
charter available at the Clerk’s office for public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.1)
CHAPTER 3
BOUNDARIES
 
3.01 Corporate Limits 3.02 Division into Wards/Voting Precincts
 
3.01   CORPORATE LIMITS.
The corporate limits of the City are described as follows:
All of Section 1; the East ½ of Section 2; the East ½ of Section 11; all of
Section 12; the NE¼ of the NE¼ of Section 13; all of Government Lot 5 except
Wood Lots 15 and 16; all that portion of the NW¼ of Section 2 lying north of
the west fork of the Des Moines River; all being situated in Township 91 North,
Range 29 West of the 5th P.M.; the East ½ of the SW¼ of Section 35 except the
north 40.00 feet of the west 623.90 feet thereof, the East ½ of Section 35; a
tract of land located in the SE¼ of the NW¼ of Section 35 beginning at the
center of Section 35-92-29; thence north 90º00'00" west 684.50 feet along the
south line of the said NW¼ to the point of beginning; thence north 00º06'35"
east 1329.30 feet; thence south 89º45'00" east 679.00 feet to the east line of
the SE¼ of the NW¼ of Section 35; a tract of land located in the NW¼ of the SW¼
of Section 35 and the NE¼ of the SE¼ of Section 34 beginning at a point 40.00
feet south of the northeast corner of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of Section 35 on the
south right-of-way line of 16th Avenue North; thence north 90º00'00" west
298.00 feet; thence north 00º00'00" east 355.00 feet on the said right-of-way;
thence north 90º00'00" west 368.00 feet along said right-of-way to the west
line of Section 35; thence continuing south 89º58'46" west 28.00 feet; thence
south 00º21'00" east 1152.65 feet; thence north 89º58'20" east 1347.00 feet to
the east line of the NW¼ of the SW¼ of Section 35; the West ½ of the NW¼ and
the West ½ of the SW¼ of Section 36; the East ½ of the SW¼ and all of the SE¼
of Section 36 except the north 40.00 feet thereof, all being situated in
Township 92 North, Range 29 West of the 5th P.M., all being situated in
Humboldt County, Iowa.
3.02   DIVISION INTO WARDS/VOTING PRECINCTS.
The City of Humboldt shall be divided into three (3) wards / three (3) voting
precincts described as follows:
   1.   Ward 1/Precinct 1. That portion of the incorporated City beginning at
the Southwestern most corner of the corporate limits, thence North to the bank
of the Des Moines River, thence Westerly along said bank to the West corporate
limits of the City, thence back Easterly and Southerly along the North bank of
the river to the west line of Hwy. 169, thence North to the North boundary of
6th Avenue North, thence East to the East boundary of 11th Street North, thence
South to the North boundary of 5th Avenue North, thence East to the East
boundary of Taft Street North, thence South to the South boundary of 1st Avenue
South, thence West to the Eastern bank of the Des Moines River, thence North
along the river to the North boundary of Sumner Avenue SW, thence West across
the river to the Western bank of the river, thence Southerly along the river
bank to the corporate limit, thence West along such boundary to the
Southwestern most corner of the corporate limits, being the point of origin.
   2.   Ward 2/Precinct 2. That portion of the incorporated City beginning at
the Southeastern most corner of the corporate boundary, thence following said
boundary West to the East boundary of the Des Moines River, thence North along
the river to the North boundary of Sumner Avenue SW, thence East across the
river to the West river bank, thence Southerly along the river to the North
boundary of 1st Avenue South, thence East to the East boundary of Taft Street
South, thence North to the North boundary of 4th Avenue North, thence East to
the East boundary of 4th Street North, thence North to the North boundary of
5th Avenue North, thence East to the East boundary of 2nd Street North, thence
North to the North boundary of 6th Avenue North, thence East to the East
corporate boundary, thence South along said boundary to the Southeastern corner
of the corporate boundaries, being the point of origin.
   3.   Ward 3/Precinct 3. The third ward comprises all of the land within the
City outside of Wards 1 and 2, being that portion of the incorporated City
beginning at the most Northerly Northwestern corner of the corporate boundary,
thence following said Westernmost boundary South to the Des Moines River,
thence East along the river to the West boundary of Hwy. 169, thence North to
the North boundary of 6th Avenue North, thence East to the East boundary of
11th Street North, thence South to the North boundary of 5th Avenue North,
thence East to the East boundary of Traft Street North, thence South to the
North boundary of 4th Avenue North, thence, East to the East boundary of 4th
Street North, thence North to the North boundary of 5th Avenue North, thence
East to the East boundary of 2nd Street North, thence North to the North
boundary of 6th Avenue North, thence East to the corporate limits (Montana
Avenue), thence North along such boundary to the Northeastern corner of the
corporate boundary, thence West following the North corporate limits to the
point of origin.
(Section 3.02 – Ord. 2021-03 – Jun. 22 Supp.)
CHAPTER 4
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
 
4.01 Municipal Infraction    4.04 Civil Citations
4.02 Environmental Violation 4.05 Alternative Relief
4.03 Penalties               4.06 Alternative Penalties
 
4.01   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
A violation of this Code of Ordinances or any ordinance or code herein adopted
by reference or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty required by
the same, with the exception of those provisions specifically provided under
State law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious misdemeanor, or
a simple misdemeanor under Chapters 687 through 747 of the Code of Iowa, is a
municipal infraction punishable by civil penalty as provided herein.† 2
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[3])
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: For criminal penalty for violations of this Code of
2 Ordinances, see Section
  1.14.
4.02   ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATION.
A municipal infraction that is a violation of Chapter 455B of the Code of Iowa
or of a standard established by the City in consultation with the Department of
Natural Resources, or both, may be classified as an environmental violation.
However, the provisions of this section shall not be applicable until the City
has offered to participate in informal negotiations regarding the violation or
to the following specific violations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
   1.   A violation arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment standard or
requirement referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8.
   2.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person not engaged in the industrial
production or manufacturing of grain products.
   3.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person engaged in such industrial production
or manufacturing if such discharge occurs from September 15 to January 15.
4.03   PENALTIES.
A municipal infraction is punishable by the following civil penalties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
   1.   Standard Civil Penalties.
      A.   First offense – not to exceed $750.00
      B.   Each repeat offense – not to exceed $1,000.00
Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a repeat
offense.
   2.   Special Civil Penalties.
      A.   A municipal infraction arising from noncompliance with a
pretreatment standard or requirement, referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8, by an
industrial user is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each
day a violation exists or continues.
      B.   A municipal infraction classified as an environmental violation is
punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each occurrence.
However, an environmental violation is not subject to such penalty if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
         (1)   The violation results solely from conducting an initial startup,
cleaning, repairing, performing scheduled maintenance, testing, or conducting a
shutdown of either equipment causing the violation or the equipment designed to
reduce or eliminate the violation.
         (2)   The City is notified of the violation within 24 hours from the
time that the violation begins.
         (3)   The violation does not continue in existence for more than eight
hours.
4.04   CIVIL CITATIONS.
Any officer authorized by the City to enforce this Code of Ordinances may issue
a civil citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction. A copy of the
citation may be served by personal service as provided in Rule of Civil
Procedure 1.305, by certified mail addressed to the defendant at defendant’s
last known mailing address, return receipt requested, or by publication in the
manner as provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.310 and subject to the
conditions of Rule of Civil Procedure 1.311. A copy of the citation shall be
retained by the issuing officer, and the original citation shall be sent to the
Clerk of the District Court. The citation shall serve as notification that a
civil offense has been committed and shall contain the following information:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[4])
   1.   The name and address of the defendant.
   2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation.
   3.   The location and time of the infraction.
   4.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative relief
sought, or both.
   5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid.
   6.   The time and place of court appearance.
   7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.
   8.   The legal description of the affected real property, if applicable.
If the citation affects real property and charges a violation relating to the
condition of the property, including a building code violation, a local housing
regulation violation, a housing code violation, or a public health or safety
violation, after filing the citation with the Clerk of the District Court, the
City shall also file the citation in the office of the County Treasurer.
4.05   ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.
Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not preclude the
City from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action. Such
alternative relief may include, but is not limited to, an order for abatement
or injunctive relief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[8])
4.06   ALTERNATIVE PENALTIES.
This chapter does not preclude a peace officer from issuing a criminal citation
for a violation of this Code of Ordinances or regulation if criminal penalties
are also provided for the violation. Nor does it preclude or limit the
authority of the City to enforce the provisions of this Code of Ordinances by
criminal sanctions or other lawful means.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[11])
CHAPTER 5
OPERATING PROCEDURES
 
5.01 Oaths                 5.07 Conflict of Interest
5.02 Bonds                 5.08 Resignations
5.03 Powers and Duties     5.09 Removal of Appointed Officers and Employees
5.04 Books and Records     5.10 Vacancies
5.05 Transfer to Successor 5.11 Gifts
5.06 Meetings
 
5.01   OATHS.
The oath of office shall be required and administered in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Qualify for Office. Each elected or appointed officer shall qualify for
office by taking the prescribed oath and by giving, when required, a bond. The
oath shall be taken, and bond provided, after such officer is certified as
elected but not later than noon of the first day that is not a Sunday or a
legal holiday in January of the first year of the term for which the officer
was elected.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.1)
   2.   Prescribed Oath. The prescribed oath is: “I, (name), do solemnly swear
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of the State of Iowa, and that I will faithfully and impartially, to the best
of my ability, discharge all duties of the office of (name of office) in
Humboldt as now or hereafter required by law.”
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.10)
   3.   Officers Empowered to Administer Oaths. The following are empowered to
administer oaths and to take affirmations in any matter pertaining to the
business of their respective offices:
      A.   Mayor
      B.   City Clerk
      C.   Members of all boards, commissions, or bodies created by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63A.2)
5.02   BONDS.
Surety bonds are provided in accordance with the following:
   1.   Required. The Council shall provide by resolution for a surety bond or
blanket position bond running to the City and covering the Mayor, Clerk,
Treasurer, and such other officers and employees as may be necessary and
advisable.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.13)
   2.   Bonds Approved. Bonds shall be approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.19)
   3.   Bonds Filed. All bonds, after approval and proper record, shall be
filed with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.23[6])
   4.   Record. The Clerk shall keep a book, to be known as the “Record of
Official Bonds” in which shall be recorded the official bonds of all City
officers, elective or appointive.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.24[3])
5.03   POWERS AND DUTIES.
Each municipal officer shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
prescribed by law and this Code of Ordinances, or as otherwise directed by the
Council unless contrary to State law or City charter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.04   BOOKS AND RECORDS.
All books and records required to be kept by law or ordinance shall be open to
examination by the public upon request, unless some other provisions of law
expressly limit such right or require such records to be kept confidential.
Access to public records that are combined with data processing software shall
be in accordance with policies and procedures established by the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 22.2 & 22.3A)
5.05   TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR.
Each officer shall transfer to his or her successor in office all books,
papers, records, documents and property in the officer’s custody and
appertaining to that office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.06   MEETINGS.
All meetings of the Council, any board or commission, or any multi-membered
body formally and directly created by any of the foregoing bodies shall be held
in accordance with the following:
   1.   Notice of Meetings. Reasonable notice, as defined by State law, of the
time, date, and place of each meeting and its tentative agenda shall be given.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4)
   2.   Meetings Open. All meetings shall be held in open session unless closed
sessions are held as expressly permitted by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   3.   Minutes. Minutes shall be kept of all meetings showing the date, time
and place, the members present, and the action taken at each meeting. The
minutes shall show the results of each vote taken and information sufficient to
indicate the vote of each member present. The vote of each member present shall
be made public at the open session. The minutes shall be public records open to
public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   4.   Closed Session. A closed session may be held only by affirmative vote
of either two-thirds of the body or all of the members present at the meeting
and in accordance with Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.5)
   5.   Cameras and Recorders. The public may use cameras or recording devices
at any open session.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.7)
   6.   Electronic Meetings. A meeting may be conducted by electronic means
only in circumstances where such a meeting in person is impossible or
impractical and then only in compliance with the provisions of Chapter 21 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8)
5.07   CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
A City officer or employee shall not have an interest, direct or indirect, in
any contract or job of work or material or the profits thereof or services to
be furnished or performed for the City, unless expressly permitted by law. A
contract entered into in violation of this section is void. The provisions of
this section do not apply to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5)
   1.   Compensation of Officers. The payment of lawful compensation of a City
officer or employee holding more than one City office or position, the holding
of which is not incompatible with another public office or is not prohibited by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3a])
   2.   Investment of Funds. The designation of a bank or trust company as a
depository, paying agent, or for investment of funds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3b])
   3.   City Treasurer. An employee of a bank or trust company, who serves as
Treasurer of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3c])
   4.   Stock Interests. Contracts in which a City officer or employee has an
interest solely by reason of employment, or a stock interest of the kind
described in subsection 8 of this section, or both, if the contracts are made
by competitive bid in writing, publicly invited and opened, or if the
remuneration of employment will not be directly affected as a result of the
contract and the duties of employment do not directly involve the procurement
or preparation of any part of the contract. The competitive bid qualification
of this subsection does not apply to a contract for professional services not
customarily awarded by competitive bid.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3e])
   5.   Newspaper. The designation of an official newspaper.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3f])
   6.   Existing Contracts. A contract in which a City officer or employee has
an interest if the contract was made before the time the officer or employee
was elected or appointed, but the contract may not be renewed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3g])
   7.   Volunteers. Contracts with volunteer firefighters or civil defense
volunteers.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3h])
   8.   Corporations. A contract with a corporation in which a City officer or
employee has an interest by reason of stock holdings when less than five
percent of the outstanding stock of the corporation is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the officer or employee or the spouse or immediate
family of such officer or employee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3i])
   9.   Contracts. Contracts made by the City upon competitive bid in writing,
publicly invited and opened.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3d])
   10.   Cumulative Purchases. Contracts not otherwise permitted by this
section, for the purchase of goods or services that benefit a City officer or
employee, if the purchases benefiting that officer or employee do not exceed a
cumulative total purchase price of $1,500.00 in a fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3j])
   11.   Franchise Agreements. Franchise agreements between the City and a
utility and contracts entered into by the City for the provision of essential
City utility services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3l])
   12.   Third Party Contracts. A contract that is a bond, note or other
obligation of the City and the contract is not acquired directly from the City
but is acquired in a transaction with a third party who may or may not be the
original underwriter, purchaser, or obligee of the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3m])
5.08   RESIGNATIONS.
An elected officer who wishes to resign may do so by submitting a resignation
in writing to the Clerk so that it shall be properly recorded and considered. A
person who resigns from an elective office is not eligible for appointment to
the same office during the time for which the person was elected if, during
that time, the compensation of the office has been increased.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[9])
5.09   REMOVAL OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
Except as otherwise provided by State or City law, all persons appointed to
City office or employment may be removed by the officer or body making the
appointment, but every such removal shall be by written order. The order shall
give the reasons, be filed in the office of the Clerk, and a copy shall be sent
by certified mail to the person removed, who, upon request filed with the Clerk
within 30 days after the date of mailing the copy, shall be granted a public
hearing before the Council on all issues connected with the removal. The
hearing shall be held within 30 days after the date the request is filed,
unless the person removed requests a later date.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.15)
5.10   VACANCIES.
A vacancy in an elective City office during a term of office shall be filled in
accordance with Section 372.13[2] of the Code of Iowa.
5.11   GIFTS.
Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 68B of the Code of Iowa, a public
official, public employee or candidate, or that person’s immediate family
member, shall not, directly or indirectly, accept or receive any gift or series
of gifts from a “restricted donor” as defined in Chapter 68B and a restricted
donor shall not, directly or indirectly, individually or jointly with one or
more other restricted donors, offer or make a gift or a series of gifts to a
public official, public employee, or candidate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 68B.22)
CHAPTER 6
CITY ELECTIONS
 
6.01 Nominating Method to Be Used 6.04 Preparation of Petition and Affidavit
6.02 Nominations by Petition      6.05 Filing; Presumption; Withdrawals;
                                  Objections
6.03 Adding Name by Petition      6.06 Persons Elected
 
6.01   NOMINATING METHOD TO BE USED.
All candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated under the
provisions of Chapter 45 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.3)
6.02   NOMINATIONS BY PETITION.
Nominations for elective municipal offices of the City may be made by
nomination paper or papers signed by not less than 25 eligible electors,
residents of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.1)
6.03   ADDING NAME BY PETITION.
The name of a candidate placed upon the ballot by any other method than by
petition shall not be added by petition for the same office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.2)
6.04   PREPARATION OF PETITION AND AFFIDAVIT.
Nomination papers shall include a petition and an affidavit of candidacy. The
petition and affidavit shall be substantially in the form prescribed by the
State Commissioner of Elections, shall include information required by the Code
of Iowa, and shall be signed in accordance with the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.3, 45.5 & 45.6)
6.05   FILING; PRESUMPTION; WITHDRAWALS; OBJECTIONS.
The time and place of filing nomination petitions, the presumption of validity
thereof, the right of a candidate so nominated to withdraw and the effect of
such withdrawal, and the right to object to the legal sufficiency of such
petitions, or to the eligibility of the candidate, shall be governed by the
appropriate provisions of Chapter 44 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.4)
6.06   PERSONS ELECTED.
The candidates who receive the greatest number of votes for each office on the
ballot are elected, to the extent necessary to fill the positions open.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.8[3])
CHAPTER 7
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
 
7.01 Purpose         7.05 Operating Budget Preparation
7.02 Finance Officer 7.06 Budget Amendments
7.03 Cash Control    7.07 Accounting
7.04 Fund Control    7.08 Financial Reports
 
7.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and provide for rules and
regulations governing the management of the financial affairs of the City.
7.02   FINANCE OFFICER.
The Clerk is the finance and accounting officer of the City and is responsible
for the administration of the provisions of this chapter.
7.03   CASH CONTROL.
To assure the proper accounting and safe custody of moneys the following shall
apply:
   1.   Deposit of Funds. All moneys or fees collected for any purpose by any
City officer shall be deposited through the office of the finance officer. If
any said fees are due to an officer, they shall be paid to the officer by check
drawn by the finance officer and approved by the Council only upon such
officer’s making adequate reports relating thereto as required by law,
ordinance, or Council directive.
   2.   Deposits and Investments. All moneys belonging to the City shall be
promptly deposited in depositories selected by the Council in amounts not
exceeding the authorized depository limitation established by the Council or
invested in accordance with the City’s written investment policy and State law,
including joint investments as authorized by Section 384.21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.21, 12B.10, 12C.1)
   3.   Petty Cash Fund. The finance officer shall be custodian of a petty cash
fund for the payment of small claims for minor purchases, collect-on-delivery
transportation charges, and small fees customarily paid at the time of
rendering a service, for which payments the finance officer shall obtain some
form of receipt or bill acknowledged as paid by the vendor or agent. At such
time as the petty cash fund is approaching depletion, the finance officer shall
draw a check for replenishment in the amount of the accumulated expenditures
and said check and supporting detail shall be submitted to the Council as a
claim in the usual manner for claims and charged to the proper funds and
accounts. It shall not be used for salary payments or other personal services
or personal expenses.
7.04   FUND CONTROL.
There shall be established and maintained separate and distinct funds in
accordance with the following:
   1.   Revenues. All moneys received by the City shall be credited to the
proper fund as required by law, ordinance, or resolution.
   2.   Expenditures. No disbursement shall be made from a fund unless such
disbursement is authorized by law, ordinance, or resolution, was properly
budgeted, and supported by a claim approved by the Council.
   3.   Emergency Fund. No transfer may be made from any fund to the Emergency
Fund.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388], Sec. 2.5[2])
   4.   Debt Service Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by State law,
moneys may be transferred from any other City fund to the Debt Service Fund to
meet payments of principal and interest. Such transfers must be authorized by
the original budget or a budget amendment.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388] Sec. 2.5[3])
   5.   Capital Improvements Reserve Fund. Except where specifically prohibited
by State law, moneys may be transferred from any City fund to the Capital
Improvements Reserve Fund. Such transfers must be authorized by the original
budget or a budget amendment.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388] Sec. 2.5[4])
   6.   Utility and Enterprise Funds. A surplus in a Utility or Enterprise Fund
may be transferred to any other City fund, except the Emergency Fund, by
resolution of the Council. A surplus may exist only after all required
transfers have been made to any restricted accounts in accordance with the
terms and provisions of any revenue bonds or loan agreements relating to the
Utility or Enterprise Fund. A surplus is defined as the cash balance in the
operating account or the unrestricted net position calculated in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, after adding back the net
pension and other postemployment benefits, liabilities, and the related
deferred inflows of resources and deducting the related deferred outflows of
resources, in excess of:
      A.   The amount of the expenses of disbursements for operating and
maintaining the utility or enterprise for the preceding three months; and
      B.   The amount necessary to make all required transfers to restricted
accounts for the succeeding three months.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388], Sec. 2.5[5])
   7.   Balancing of Funds. Fund accounts shall be reconciled at the close of
each month and a report thereof submitted to the Council.
7.05   OPERATING BUDGET PREPARATION.
The annual operating budget of the City shall be prepared in accordance with
the following:
   1.   Proposal Prepared. The finance officer is responsible for preparation
of the annual budget detail, for review by the Mayor and Council and adoption
by the Council in accordance with directives of the Mayor and Council.
   2.   Boards and Commissions. All boards, commissions, and other
administrative agencies of the City that are authorized to prepare and
administer budgets must submit their budget proposals to the finance officer
for inclusion in the proposed City budget at such time and in such form as
required by the Council.
   3.   Submission to Council. The finance officer shall submit the completed
budget proposal to the Council each year at such time as directed by the
Council.
   4.   Annual Statement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 24.2A[2])
      A.   On or before March 15 of each year, the City shall file, with the
Department of Management, a report containing all necessary information for the
Department of Management to compile and calculate amounts required to be
included in the statement mailed under Paragraph B.
      B.   Not later than March 20, the County Auditor, using information
compiled and calculated by the Department of Management shall send to each
property owner or taxpayer within the County, by regular mail, an individual
statement containing all of the required information as provided under Section
24.2(2)(B)(1-9) of the Code of Iowa.
      C.   The Department of Management shall prescribe the form for the report
required under Paragraph A, the statements to be mailed under Paragraph B, and
the public hearing notice required under Paragraph D.
      D.   The Council shall set a time and place for a public hearing on the
City’s proposed property tax amount for the budget year and the City’s
information included in the statements under Paragraph B. At the hearing, the
Council shall receive oral or written testimony from any resident or property
owner of the City. This public hearing shall be separate from any other meeting
of the Council, including any other meeting or public hearing relating to the
City’s budget, and other business of the City that is not related to the
proposed property tax amounts and the information in the statements shall not
be conducted at the public hearing. After all testimony has been received and
considered, the governing body may decrease, but not increase, the proposed
property tax amount to be included in the City’s budget.
         (1)   Notice of the public hearing shall be published not less than 10
nor more than 20 days prior to the hearing, in a newspaper published at least
once weekly and having general circulation in the City. However, if the City
has a population of 200 or less, publication may be made by posting in three
public places in the City.
         (2)   Notice of the hearing shall also be posted and clearly
identified on the City’s internet site for public viewing beginning on the date
of the newspaper publication and shall be maintained on the City’s internet
site with all such prior year notices and copies of the statements mailed under
this section.
         (3)   Additionally, if the City maintains a social media account on
one or more social media applications, the public hearing notice or an
electronic link to the public hearing notice shall be posted on each such
account on the same day as the publication of the notice.
   5.   Council Review. The Council shall review the proposed budget and may
make any adjustments it deems appropriate in the budget before accepting such
proposal for publication, hearing, and final adoption.
   6.   Notice of Hearing. Following, and not until the requirements, of
Subsection 4 of this section, are completed, the Council shall set a time and
place for public hearing on the budget to be held before April 30 and shall
publish notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days before the
hearing. A summary of the proposed budget and a description of the procedure
for protesting the City budget under Section 384.19 of the Code of Iowa, in the
form prescribed by the Director of the Department of Management, shall be
included in the notice. Proof of publication of the notice under this
subsection must be filed with the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[3])
   7.   Copies of Budget on File. Not less than 20 days before the date that
the budget must be certified to the County Auditor and not less than 10 days
before the public hearing, the Clerk shall make available a sufficient number
of copies of the detailed budget to meet the requests of taxpayers and
organizations, and have them available for distribution at the offices of the
Mayor and Clerk and at the City library.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[2])
   8.   Adoption and Certification. After the hearing, the Council shall adopt,
by resolution, a budget for at least the next fiscal year and the Clerk shall
certify the necessary tax levy for the next fiscal year to the County Auditor
and the County Board of Supervisors. The tax levy certified may be less than,
but not more than, the amount estimated in the proposed budget submitted at the
final hearing, unless an additional tax levy is approved at a City election.
Two copies each of the detailed budget as adopted and of the tax certificate
must be transmitted to the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[5])
(Section 7.05 – Ord. 2023-09 – Jan. 24 Supp.)
7.06   BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
A City budget finally adopted for the following fiscal year becomes effective
July 1 and constitutes the City appropriation for each program and purpose
specified therein until amended as provided by this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.18)
   1.   Program Increase. Any increase in the amount appropriated to a program
must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as the
original budget.
(IAC, 545-2.2[384, 388])
   2.   Program Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one program to
another must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as
the original budget.
(IAC, 545-2.3[384, 388])
   3.   Activity Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one activity to
another activity within a program must be approved by resolution of the
Council.
(IAC, 545-2.4[384, 388])
   4.   Administrative Transfers. The finance officer shall have the authority
to adjust, by transfer or otherwise, the appropriations allocated within a
specific activity without prior Council approval.
(IAC, 545-2.4[384, 388])
7.07   ACCOUNTING.
The accounting records of the City shall consist of not less than the
following:
   1.   Books of Original Entry. There shall be established and maintained
books of original entry to provide a chronological record of cash received and
disbursed.
   2.   General Ledger. There shall be established and maintained a general
ledger controlling all cash transactions, budgetary accounts and for recording
unappropriated surpluses.
   3.   Checks. Checks shall be prenumbered and signed by the Mayor and Clerk
following Council approval, except as provided by Subsection 5 hereof.
   4.   Budget Accounts. There shall be established such individual accounts to
record receipts by source and expenditures by program and activity as will
provide adequate information and control for budgeting purposes as planned and
approved by the Council. Each individual account shall be maintained within its
proper fund and so kept that receipts can be immediately and directly compared
with revenue estimates and expenditures can be related to the authorizing
appropriation. No expenditure shall be posted except to the appropriation for
the function and purpose for which the expense was incurred.
   5.   Immediate Payment Authorized. The Council may by resolution authorize
the Clerk to issue checks for immediate payment of amounts due, which if not
paid promptly would result in loss of discount, penalty for late payment or
additional interest cost. Any such payments made shall be reported to the
Council for review and approval with and in the same manner as other claims at
the next meeting following such payment. The resolution authorizing immediate
payment shall specify the type of payment so authorized and may include (but is
not limited to) payment of utility bills, contractual obligations, payroll, and
bond principal and interest.
   6.   Utilities. The finance officer shall perform and be responsible for
accounting functions of the municipally owned utilities.
7.08   FINANCIAL REPORTS.
The finance officer shall prepare and file the following financial reports:
   1.   Monthly Reports. There shall be submitted to the Council each month a
report showing the activity and status of each fund, program, sub-program, and
activity for the preceding month.
   2.   Annual Report. Not later than December 1 of each year there shall be
published an annual report containing a summary for the preceding fiscal year
of all collections and receipts, all accounts due the City, and all
expenditures, the current public debt of the City, and the legal debt limit of
the City for the current fiscal year. The Annual Financial Report shall be
prepared on forms and pursuant to instructions prescribed by the Auditor of
State. Beginning with the Annual Financial Report published by December 1,
2025, each report shall include a list of bonds, notes, or other obligations
issued by the City during the most recently completed fiscal year, and the
applicable lists for other fiscal years beginning on or after July 1, 2024, for
which obligations remain unpaid, payable from any source, including the amount
of the issuance, the project or purpose of the issuance, whether the issuance
was approved at election, eligible to be subject to a petition for an election,
or was exempt from approval at election as the result of statutory exclusions
based on population of the City or amount of the issuance, and identification
of issuances from the fiscal year or prior fiscal years related to the same
project or purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.22)
(Section 7.08 – Ord. 2023-09 – Jan. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 8
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTIONS
 
8.01 Purpose                        8.06 Applications
8.02 Definitions                    8.07 Approval
8.03 Period of Partial Exemption    8.08 Exemption Repealed
8.04 Amounts Eligible for Exemption 8.09 Dual Exemptions Prohibited
8.05 Limitations
 
8.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a partial exemption from property
taxation of the actual value added to industrial real estate by the new
construction of industrial real estate, research-service facilities,
warehouses, and distribution centers.
8.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Actual value added” means the actual value added as of the first year
for which the exemption is received.
   2.   “Distribution center” means a building or structure used primarily for
the storage of goods that are intended for subsequent shipment to retail
outlets. Distribution center does not mean a building or structure used
primarily to store raw agricultural products, used primarily by a manufacturer
to store goods to be used in the manufacturing process, used primarily for the
storage of petroleum products, or used for the retail sale of goods.
   3.   “New construction” means new buildings and structures and includes new
buildings and structures that are constructed as additions to existing
buildings and structures. New construction does not include reconstruction of
an existing building or structure that does not constitute complete replacement
of an existing building or structure or refitting of an existing building or
structure unless the reconstruction of an existing building or structure is
required due to economic obsolescence and the reconstruction is necessary to
implement recognized industry standards for the manufacturing and processing of
specific products and the reconstruction is required for the owner of the
building or structure to continue competitively to manufacture or process those
products, which determination shall receive prior approval from the City
Council.
   4.   “Research-service facilities” means a building or group of buildings
devoted primarily to research and development activities, including (but not
limited to) the design and production or manufacture of prototype products for
experimental use and corporate research services that do not have a primary
purpose of providing on-site services to the public.
   5.   “Warehouse” means a building or structure used as a public warehouse
for the storage of goods pursuant to Chapter 554, Article 7, of the Code of
Iowa, except that it does not mean a building or structure used primarily to
store raw agricultural products or from which goods are sold at retail.
8.03   PERIOD OF PARTIAL EXEMPTION.
The actual value added to industrial real estate by the new construction of
industrial real estate, research-service facilities, warehouses, and
distribution centers is eligible to receive a partial exemption from taxation
for a period of five years. The exemption shall also apply to the acquisition
of or improvement to machinery and equipment assessed as real estate pursuant
to Section 427A.1[1e] of the Code of Iowa, unless the machinery or equipment is
part of the normal replacement or operating process to maintain or expand the
existing operational status.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
8.04   AMOUNTS ELIGIBLE FOR EXEMPTION.
The amount of actual value added, which is eligible to be exempt from taxation,
shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
   1.   For the first year, 75 percent.
   2.   For the second year, 60 percent.
   3.   For the third year, 45 percent.
   4.   For the fourth year, 30 percent.
   5.   For the fifth year, 15 percent.
8.05   LIMITATIONS.
The granting of the exemption under this chapter for new construction
constituting complete replacement of an existing building or structure shall
not result in the assessed value of the industrial real estate being reduced
below the assessed value of the industrial real estate before the start of the
new construction added.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
8.06   APPLICATIONS.
An application shall be filed for each project resulting in actual value added
for which an exemption is claimed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)
   1.   The application for exemption shall be filed by the owner of the
property with the local assessor by February 1 of the assessment year in which
the value added is first assessed for taxation.
   2.   Applications for exemption shall be made on forms prescribed by the
Director of Revenue and shall contain information pertaining to the nature of
the improvement, its cost, and other information deemed necessary by the
Director of Revenue.
8.07   APPROVAL.
A person may submit a proposal to the City Council to receive prior approval
for eligibility for a tax exemption on new construction. If the City Council
resolves to consider such proposal, it shall publish notice and hold a public
hearing thereon. Thereafter, at least 30 days after such hearing, the City
Council, by ordinance, may give its prior approval of a tax exemption for new
construction if the new construction is in conformance with City zoning. Such
prior approval shall not entitle the owner to exemption from taxation until the
new construction has been completed and found to be qualified real estate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)
8.08   EXEMPTION REPEALED.
When in the opinion of the City Council continuation of the exemption granted
by this chapter ceases to be of benefit to the City, the City Council may
repeal this chapter, but all existing exemptions shall continue until their
expiration.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.5)
8.09   DUAL EXEMPTIONS PROHIBITED.
A property tax exemption under this chapter shall not be granted if the
property for which the exemption is claimed has received any other property tax
exemption authorized by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.6)
CHAPTER 9
URBAN RENEWAL
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED            NAME OF AREA
514           1987               Northside Industrial Park Urban Renewal Area
97-09         1997               Amendment No. 1 Area to the Northside
                                 Industrial Park Urban Renewal Area
00-05         August 7, 2000     South Residential Urban Renewal Area
2000-07       August 21, 2000    Amendment No. 2 Area to the Northside
                                 Industrial Park Urban Renewal Area
2003-09       October 20, 2003   Amendment No. 3 Area to the Northside
                                 Industrial Park Urban Renewal Area
2004-08       November 15, 2004  Southwest Urban Renewal Area
2005-13       August 22, 2005    Central Business District Urban Renewal Area
2005-14       August 22, 2005    Amendment No. 4 Area to the Northside
                                 Industrial Park Urban Renewal Area
2010-06       August 2, 2010     Amendment No. 1 Area to the Southwest Urban
                                 Renewal Area
2013-14       October 7, 2013    Amendment No. 7 Area to the Northside
                                 Industrial Park Urban Renewal Area
2013-15       October 21, 2013   Northwest Urban Renewal Area
2013-16       October 21, 2013   Amendment No. 1 Area to South Residential
                                 Urban Renewal Area
2015-07       September 21, 2015 Amendment No. 2 Area to South Residential
                                 Urban Renewal Area
2017-07       August 21, 2017    Amendment No. 3 Area to the South Residential
                                 Urban Renewal Area
2020-04       April 6, 2020      North Residential Urban Renewal Area
2023-07       August 21, 2023    Amendment No. 4 to the South Residential Urban
                                 Renewal Plan
2023-08       August 21, 2023    Amendment No. 9 to the Northside Urban Renewal
                                 Plan
 
CHAPTER 10
URBAN REVITALIZATION
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted designating Urban Revitalization Areas in the City
and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED            NAME OF AREA
2003-01       January 6, 2003    Residential Revitalization Area
2012-03       September 17, 2012 Eagle Ridge Addition
2013-08       June 17, 2013      Residential Revitalization Area
2015-11       December 21, 2015  Eagle Ridge Addition – Phase II
 
CHAPTER 11
TAX EXEMPTION FOR SPECULATIVE BUILDINGS
 
11.01 Purpose 11.02 Tax Exemption
 
11.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide tax exemption for speculative
buildings owned by the Humboldt County Development Association, a community
development organization, to promote, stimulate, develop, and advance the
business prosperity and economic welfare of the community, area, region, and
the residents of the community.
11.02    TAX EXEMPTION.
   1.   This exemption is allowed under Code of Iowa 427.1(27).
   2.   The exemption shall be allowed only for newly constructed or completely
renovated/reconstructed buildings owned by the Humboldt County Development
Corporation.
   3.   No portion of the building or facility that is leased or sold shall be
eligible for the tax exemption.
   4.   This chapter shall be in effect until repealed or amended by the
Humboldt City Council, or until the building is leased or sold.
CHAPTER 15
MAYOR
 
15.01 Term of Office    15.04 Compensation
15.02 Powers and Duties 15.05 Voting
15.03 Appointments
 
15.01   TERM OF OFFICE.
The Mayor is elected for a term of two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
15.02   POWERS AND DUTIES. The powers and duties of the Mayor are as follows:
   1.   Chief Executive Officer. Act as the chief executive officer of the City
and presiding officer of the Council, supervise all departments of the City,
except for supervisory duties delegated to the City Administrator, give
direction to department heads concerning the functions of the departments, and
have the power to examine all functions of the municipal departments, their
records and to call for special reports from department heads at any time.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
   2.   Proclamation of Emergency. Have authority to take command of the police
and govern the City by proclamation, upon making a determination that a time of
emergency or public danger exists. Within the City limits, the Mayor has all
the powers conferred upon the Sheriff to suppress disorders.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[2])
   3.   Special Meetings. Call special meetings of the Council when the Mayor
deems such meetings necessary to the interests of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
   4.   Mayor’s Veto. Sign, veto, or take no action on an ordinance, amendment,
or resolution passed by the Council. The Mayor may veto an ordinance,
amendment, or resolution within 14 days after passage. The Mayor shall explain
the reasons for the veto in a written message to the Council at the time of the
veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.5 & 380.6[2])
   5.   Reports to Council. Make such oral or written reports to the Council as
required. These reports shall concern municipal affairs generally, the
municipal departments, and recommendations suitable for Council action.
   6.   Negotiations. Represent the City in all negotiations properly entered
into in accordance with law or ordinance. The Mayor shall not represent the
City where this duty is specifically delegated to another officer by law,
ordinance, or Council direction.
   7.   Contracts. Whenever authorized by the Council, sign contracts on behalf
of the City.
   8.   Professional Services. Upon order of the Council, secure for the City
such specialized and professional services not already available to the City.
In executing the order of the Council, the Mayor shall act in accordance with
this Code of Ordinances and the laws of the State.
   9.   Licenses and Permits. Sign all licenses and permits that have been
granted by the Council, except those designated by law or ordinance to be
issued by another municipal officer.
   10.   Nuisances. Issue written order for removal, at public expense, any
nuisance for which no person can be found responsible and liable.
   11.   Absentee Officer. Make appropriate provision that duties of any
absentee officer be carried on during such absence.
15.03   APPOINTMENTS.
The Mayor shall appoint the following officials:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
   1.   Mayor Pro Tem
   2.   Police Chief or Police Administrator
   3.   Library Board of Trustees
   4.   Public Safety Commission Members (2)
   5.   Historic Preservation Commission
   6.   Zoning Board of Adjustment
   7.   Zoning Administrator
15.04   COMPENSATION.
The salary of the Mayor is $5,000.00 per year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
15.05   VOTING.
The Mayor is not a member of the Council and shall not vote as a member of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
CHAPTER 16
MAYOR PRO TEM
 
16.01 Vice President of Council 16.03 Voting Rights
16.02 Powers and Duties         16.04 Compensation
 
16.01   VICE PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
The Mayor shall appoint a member of the Council as Mayor Pro Tem, who shall
serve as vice president of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
Except for the limitations otherwise provided herein, the Mayor Pro Tem shall
perform the duties of the Mayor in cases of absence or inability of the Mayor
to perform such duties. In the exercise of the duties of the office the Mayor
Pro Tem shall not have power to appoint, employ, or discharge from employment
officers or employees that the Mayor has the power to appoint, employ, or
discharge without the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.03   VOTING RIGHTS.
The Mayor Pro Tem shall have the right to vote as a member of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.04   COMPENSATION.
If the Mayor Pro Tem performs the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor’s
absence or disability for a continuous period of 15 days or more, the Mayor Pro
Tem may be paid for that period the compensation as determined by the Council,
based upon the Mayor Pro Tem’s performance of the Mayor’s duties and upon the
compensation of the Mayor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 17
CITY COUNCIL
 
17.01 Number and Term of Council 17.04 Council Meetings
17.02 Powers and Duties          17.05 Appointments
17.03 Exercise of Power          17.06 Compensation
 
17.01   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of two Council Members elected at large and one Council
Member from each of three wards as established by the Code of Ordinances,
elected for overlapping terms of four years.
17.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Council include, but are not limited to the
following:
   1.   General. All powers of the City are vested in the Council except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
   2.   Wards. By ordinance, the Council may divide the City into wards based
upon population, change the boundaries of wards, eliminate wards, or create new
wards.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[7])
   3.   Fiscal Authority. The Council shall apportion and appropriate all
funds, and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls and claims, and order
payment thereof. It shall make all assessments for the cost of street
improvements, sidewalks, sewers and other work, improvement, or repairs that
may be specially assessed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1], 384.16 & 384.38[1])
   4.   Public Improvements. The Council shall make all orders for the
construction of any improvements, bridges, or buildings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
   5.   Contracts. The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts. No contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the City unless
approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 26.10)
   6.   Employees. The Council shall authorize, by resolution, the number,
duties, term of office and compensation of employees or officers not otherwise
provided for by State law or the Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   7.   Setting Compensation for Elected Officers. By ordinance, the Council
shall prescribe the compensation of the Mayor, Council members, and other
elected City officers, but a change in the compensation of the Mayor does not
become effective during the term in which the change is adopted, and the
Council shall not adopt such an ordinance changing the compensation of any
elected officer during the months of November and December in the year of a
regular City election. A change in the compensation of Council members becomes
effective for all Council members at the beginning of the term of the Council
members elected at the election next following the change in compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
17.03   EXERCISE OF POWER.
The Council shall exercise a power only by the passage of a motion, a
resolution, an amendment, or an ordinance in the following manner:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[1])
   1.   Action by Council. Passage of an ordinance, amendment, or resolution
requires a majority vote of all of the members of the Council. Passage of a
motion requires a majority vote of a quorum of the Council. A resolution must
be passed to spend public funds in excess of $100,000.00 on a public
improvement project, or to accept public improvements and facilities upon their
completion. Each Council member’s vote on a measure must be recorded. A measure
that fails to receive sufficient votes for passage shall be considered
defeated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.4)
   2.   Overriding Mayor’s Veto. Within 30 days after the Mayor’s veto, the
Council may pass the measure again by a vote of not less than two-thirds of all
of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
   3.   Measures Become Effective. Measures passed by the Council become
effective in one of the following ways:
      A.   An ordinance or amendment signed by the Mayor becomes effective when
the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a subsequent
effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1a])
      B.   A resolution signed by the Mayor becomes effective immediately upon
signing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1b])
      C.   A motion becomes effective immediately upon passage of the motion by
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1c])
      D.   If the Mayor vetoes an ordinance, amendment or resolution and the
Council repasses the measure after the Mayor’s veto, a resolution becomes
effective immediately upon repassage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes a
law when the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a
subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
      E.   If the Mayor takes no action on an ordinance, amendment or
resolution, a resolution becomes effective 14 days after the date of passage,
and an ordinance or amendment becomes law when the ordinance or a summary of
the ordinance is published, but not sooner than 14 days after the date of
passage, unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or
amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[3])
“All of the members of the Council” refers to all of the seats of the Council
including a vacant seat and a seat where the member is absent, but does not
include a seat where the Council member declines to vote by reason of a
conflict of interest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.1[a])
17.04   COUNCIL MEETINGS.
Procedures for giving notice of meetings of the Council and other provisions
regarding the conduct of Council meetings are contained in Section
5.06 of this Code of Ordinances. Additional particulars relating to Council
meetings are the following:
   1.   Regular Meetings. The time and place of the regular meetings of the
Council shall be fixed by resolution of the Council.
   2.   Special Meetings. Special meetings shall be held upon call of the Mayor
or upon the request of a majority of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
   3.   Quorum. A majority of all Council members is a quorum.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[1])
   4.   Rules of Procedure. The Council shall determine its own rules and
maintain records of its proceedings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
   5.   Compelling Attendance. Any three members of the Council can compel the
attendance of the absent members at any regular, adjourned, or duly called
meeting, by serving a written notice upon the absent members to attend at once.
17.05   APPOINTMENTS.
The Council shall appoint the following officials and prescribe their powers,
duties, compensation, and term of office:
   1.   City Clerk
   2.   Deputy City Clerk
   3.   City Attorney
   4.   City Administrator
   5.   Planning and Zoning Commission
   6.   Airport Commission
17.06   COMPENSATION.
The salary of each Council member is $100.00 per month. In addition to this
salary, each Council member is paid $50.00 per Council meeting attended over 24
in a calendar year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 18
CITY CLERK
 
18.01 Appointment and Compensation 18.08 Records
18.02 Powers and Duties: General   18.09 Attendance at Meetings
18.03 Publication of Minutes       18.10 Licenses and Permits
18.04 Recording Measures           18.11 Notification of Appointments
18.05 Other Publications           18.12 Elections
18.06 Authentication               18.13 City Seal
18.07 Certification
 
18.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
At its first meeting in January each year between election years when no new
Council members take office, the Council shall appoint by majority vote a City
Clerk and a Deputy City Clerk to serve for a term of two years. The Deputy City
Clerk shall be nominated for appointment by the Clerk. The Clerk and Deputy
Clerk shall receive such compensation as established by resolution of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3])
18.02   POWERS AND DUTIES: GENERAL.
The Clerk or, in the Clerk’s absence or inability to act, the Deputy Clerk has
the powers and duties as provided in this chapter, this Code of Ordinances, and
the law.
18.03   PUBLICATION OF MINUTES.
Within 15 days following a regular or special meeting, the Clerk shall cause
the minutes of the proceedings thereof to be published. Such publication shall
include a list of all claims allowed and a summary of all receipts and shall
show the gross amount of the claims.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[6])
18.04   RECORDING MEASURES.
The Clerk shall promptly record each measure considered by the Council and
record a statement with the measure, where applicable, indicating whether the
Mayor signed, vetoed or took no action on the measure, and whether the measure
was repassed after the Mayor’s veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[1 & 2])
18.05   OTHER PUBLICATIONS.
The Clerk shall cause to be published all ordinances, enactments, proceedings
and official notices requiring publication as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3)
   1.   Time. If notice of an election, hearing, or other official action is
required by this Code of Ordinances or law, the notice must be published at
least once, not less than four or more than 20 days before the date of the
election, hearing, or other action, unless otherwise provided by law.
   2.   Manner of Publication. A publication required by this Code of
Ordinances or law must be in a newspaper published at least once weekly and
having general circulation in the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3)
18.06   AUTHENTICATION.
The Clerk shall authenticate all measures except motions with the Clerk’s
signature, certifying the time and manner of publication when required.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[4])
18.07   CERTIFICATION.
The Clerk shall certify all measures establishing any zoning district, building
lines, or fire limits and a plat showing the district, lines, or limits to the
recorder of the County containing the affected parts of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.11)
18.08   RECORDS.
The Clerk shall maintain the specified City records in the following manner:
   1.   Ordinances and Codes. Maintain copies of all effective City ordinances
and codes for public use.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[5])
   2.   Custody. Have custody and be responsible for the safekeeping of all
writings or documents in which the City is a party in interest unless otherwise
specifically directed by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   3.   Maintenance. Maintain all City records and documents, or accurate
reproductions, for at least five years except that ordinances, resolutions,
Council proceedings, records and documents, or accurate reproductions, relating
to the issuance, cancellation, transfer, redemption or replacement of public
bonds or obligations shall be kept for at least 11 years following the final
maturity of the bonds or obligations. Ordinances, resolutions, Council
proceedings, records and documents, or accurate reproductions, relating to real
property transactions shall be maintained permanently.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3 & 5])
   4.   Provide Copy. Furnish upon request to any municipal officer a copy of
any record, paper or public document under the Clerk’s control when it may be
necessary to such officer in the discharge of such officer’s duty; furnish a
copy to any citizen when requested upon payment of the fee set by Council
resolution; under the direction of the Mayor or other authorized officer, affix
the seal of the City to those public documents or instruments that by this Code
of Ordinances are required to be attested by the affixing of the seal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4 & 5] and 380.7[5])
   5.   Filing of Communications. Keep and file all communications and
petitions directed to the Council or to the City generally. The Clerk shall
endorse thereon the action of the Council taken upon matters considered in such
communications and petitions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.09   ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
The Clerk shall attend all regular and special Council meetings and, at the
direction of the Council, the Clerk shall attend meetings of committees,
boards, and commissions. The Clerk shall record and preserve a correct record
of the proceedings of such meetings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.10   LICENSES AND PERMITS.
The Clerk shall issue or revoke licenses and permits when authorized by this
Code of Ordinances, and keep a record of licenses and permits issued which
shall show date of issuance, license or permit number, official receipt number,
name of person to whom issued, term of license or permit, and purpose for which
issued.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.11   NOTIFICATION OF APPOINTMENTS.
The Clerk shall inform all persons appointed by the Mayor or Council to offices
in the City government of their positions and the time at which they shall
assume the duties of their offices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.12   ELECTIONS.
The Clerk shall perform the duties relating to elections in accordance with
Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa.
18.13   CITY SEAL.
The City seal is in the custody of the Clerk and shall be attached by the Clerk
to all transcripts, orders, and certificates that it may be necessary or proper
to authenticate. The City seal is circular in form, in the center of which are
the words “CORPORATE SEAL” and “IOWA” and around the margin of which are the
words “CITY OF HUMBOLDT, INCORPORATED 1869.”
CHAPTER 19
CITY TREASURER
 
19.01 Appointment  19.03 Duties of Treasurer
19.02 Compensation
 
19.01   APPOINTMENT.
The City Clerk is the Treasurer and performs all functions required of the
position of Treasurer.
19.02   COMPENSATION.
The Clerk receives no additional compensation for performing the duties of the
Treasurer.
19.03   DUTIES OF TREASURER.
The duties of the Treasurer are as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Custody of Funds. Be responsible for the safe custody of all funds of
the City in the manner provided by law and Council direction.
   2.   Record of Fund. Keep the record of each fund separate.
   3.   Record Receipts. Keep an accurate record of all money or securities
received by the Treasurer on behalf of the City and specify the date, from
whom, and for what purpose received.
   4.   Record Disbursements. Keep an accurate account of all disbursements,
money, or property, specifying date, to whom, and from what fund paid.
   5.   Special Assessments. Keep a separate account of all money received by
the Treasurer from special assessments.
   6.   Deposit Funds. Upon receipt of moneys to be held in the Treasurer’s
custody and belonging to the City, deposit the same in depositories selected by
the Council.
   7.   Reconciliation. Reconcile depository statements with the Treasurer’s
books and certify monthly to the Council the balance of cash and investments of
each fund and amounts received and disbursed.
   8.   Debt Service. Keep a register of all bonds outstanding and record all
payments of interest and principal.
   9.   Other Duties. Perform such other duties as specified by the Council by
resolution or ordinance.
CHAPTER 20
CITY ATTORNEY
 
20.01 Appointment and Compensation 20.06 Provide Legal Opinion
20.02 Attorney for City            20.07 Attendance at Council Meetings
20.03 Power of Attorney            20.08 Prepare Documents
20.04 Ordinance Preparation        20.09 Representation of City Employees
20.05 Review and Comment
 
20.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
At its first meeting in January each year between election years when no new
Council members take office, the Council shall appoint by majority vote a City
Attorney to serve for a term of two years. The City Attorney shall receive such
compensation as established by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.02   ATTORNEY FOR CITY.
The City Attorney shall act as attorney for the City in all matters affecting
the City’s interest and appear on behalf of the City before any court,
tribunal, commission, or board. The City Attorney shall prosecute or defend all
actions and proceedings when so requested by the Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.03   POWER OF ATTORNEY.
The City Attorney shall sign the name of the City to all appeal bonds and to
all other bonds or papers of any kind that may be essential to the prosecution
of any cause in court, and when so signed the City shall be bound upon the
same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.04   ORDINANCE PREPARATION.
The City Attorney shall prepare those ordinances that the Council may desire
and direct to be prepared and report to the Council upon all such ordinances
before their final passage by the Council and publication.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.05   REVIEW AND COMMENT.
The City Attorney shall, upon request, make a report to the Council giving an
opinion on all contracts, documents, resolutions, or ordinances submitted to or
coming under the City Attorney’s notice.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.06   PROVIDE LEGAL OPINION.
The City Attorney shall give advice or a written legal opinion on City
contracts and all questions of law relating to City matters submitted by the
Mayor, City Administrator, Clerk and Police Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.07   ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
The City Attorney shall attend meetings of the Council at the request of the
Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.08   PREPARE DOCUMENTS.
The City Attorney shall, upon request, formulate drafts for contracts, forms,
and other writings that may be required for the use of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.09   REPRESENTATION OF CITY EMPLOYEES.
The City Attorney shall not appear on behalf of any City officer or employee
before any court or tribunal for the purely private benefit of said officer or
employee. The City Attorney shall, however, if directed by the Council, appear
to defend any City officer or employee in any cause of action arising out of or
in the course of the performance of the duties of his or her office or
employment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 670.8)
CHAPTER 21
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
 
21.01 Purpose                     21.04 Relationship to Council
21.02 Appointment; Term           21.05 Compensation
21.03 Duties and Responsibilities 21.06 Additional Duties
 
21.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a City Administrator for the
City, to be appointed by the Council pursuant to the provisions of Section
372.4 of the Code of Iowa. The duties, responsibilities and powers of the City
Administrator in relation to City employees, City Council and the Mayor are as
hereinafter enumerated and set forth.
21.02    APPOINTMENT; TERM.
The City Administrator is appointed by a majority vote of the Council and shall
hold office at the pleasure of the Council, and shall be subject to removal by
majority vote of the Council. The City Administrator shall be a person
competent by education or experience to perform the duties imposed upon such a
person by this chapter, who shall possess a college degree in Public
Administration or a related field and/or a minimum of two years’ experience as
a City Administrator for others. The Council shall set such terms, conditions
and requisites of employment from time to time as it may deem appropriate.
21.03    DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
The City Administrator shall carry the reasonable and customary duties
attendant to the office of City Administrator, as defined herein. As City
Administrator, such duties shall be as follows:
   1.   Supervise enforcement and execution of City laws.
   2.   Attend all meetings of the Council unless excused by the Council.
   3.   Recommend to the Council such measures as may be necessary or expedient
for the good government and welfare of the City.
   4.   Have the general supervision and direction of the administration of
City government.
   5.   Be directly responsible to the Council for the administration of
municipal affairs as directed by the Council. All City departmental
administration requiring the attention of the Council shall be brought before
the Council by the City Administrator. Council involvement in administration
initiated by the Council must be coordinated through the City Administrator.
   6.   Supervise and direct the official conduct of all officers, departments,
and employees of the City, specifically including, but not limited to police,
fire, street, parks, sanitation, recreation, airport, water, and administrative
departments. To effectuate this responsibility, the City Administrator shall
have the power and authority to employ such assistants and other employees of
the City for which the Council has approved the position generally and to
discharge all employees of the departments, unless a City board or commission
or the Council itself is otherwise specifically authorized or directed to
employ, appoint and/or discharge certain employees under other provisions of
the Code of Ordinances. However, a departmental head, subject to the approval
of the City Administrator, shall have the authority to suspend or otherwise
discipline (but not discharge) subordinates subject to their control.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, and the Council shall
retain the power to appoint the City Clerk and City Attorney.
   7.   Supervise the performance of all contracts for work to be done for the
City; supervise all purchases of material and supplies and see that such
material and supplies are received, and are of the quality and character called
for by the contract.
   8.   Represent the City as directed by the Council in all negotiations with
employees, contractors, architects, engineers, and other independent
contractors in matters in which the City might have an interest.
   9.   Prepare and submit to the Council annually the required budget and
administer it after receiving Council approval.
   10.   Supervise the construction, improvement, repair, maintenance and
management of all City property, capital improvements and undertakings of the
City, including the making and preservation of all surveys, maps, plans,
drawings, specifications and estimates for capital improvements.
   11.   Cooperate with and advise any administrative agency, City board or
commission, and act as the Council’s liaison with such entities.
   12.   Investigate the affairs and conduct of any department, agency, officer
or employee under the supervision of the Administrator as deemed appropriate.
   13.   Keep the Council fully advised of the financial and other conditions
of the City and of its future needs.
   14.   Conduct the business affairs of the City and cause accurate records to
be kept by modern and efficient accounting methods.
   15.   Make to the Council periodic reports of the general condition of the
City in writing at such intervals as the Council directs.
   16.   Perform such other duties as the Council may direct.
   17.   Coordinate with the City Attorney in the preparation of ordinances and
consult with the City Attorney on legal matters. The City Attorney shall not be
considered a department head for the purpose of this chapter.
   18.   Order in writing the removal, at public expense, of any nuisance for
which no person can be found responsible and liable. Any such order to remove a
nuisance shall be carried out by the Police Department under the direction of
the Police Chief.
   19.   Facilitate economic development.
   20.   Coordinate interdepartmental affairs of various boards and commissions
of the City and assist them in meeting their duties under this Code of
Ordinances.
   21.   Handle the bid letting process on behalf of the City. In all cases
where bids or proposals are required to be taken in connection with any public
improvement, the City Administrator (or in the absence of the City
Administrator, the City Clerk) is designated for the duty of conducting and
presiding over such public meeting or hearing as may be required by the Council
in connection with receiving and opening such bids and announcing the results,
and upon announcing the results, the City Administrator (or in the absence of
the City Administrator, the City Clerk) shall thereupon report the results of
such bid letting, together with his or her recommendations thereon, to the
Council at its next meeting.
(Section 21.03 - Ord. 2020-08 - Jun. 22 Supp.)
21.04    RELATIONSHIP TO COUNCIL.
The City Administrator shall not take part in any election for Council Member,
other than by casting his or her vote, and shall not appoint a Council Member
to a City office or employment, nor shall a Council Member accept such
appointment.
21.05    COMPENSATION.
The City Administrator shall receive such annual salary and benefits as the
Council shall from time to time determine by resolution, and the payment shall
be made from the Treasury of the City in the manner provided for paying other
officers and employees. The Council shall also provide the City Administrator
with an office budget, inclusive of secretarial, office and supply necessities
in maintaining an office within the municipal building. The City Administrator
shall keep regular office hours as part of his or her employment in a manner
prescribed by the Council. The Council shall also provide customary expense
account items as part and parcel of the said employment package.
21.06    ADDITIONAL DUTIES.
The City Administrator shall perform such additional duties and employment
responsibilities as may be from time to time assigned to him or her by the
Council.
CHAPTER 22
LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
 
22.01 Public Library                   22.07 Nonresident Use
22.02 Library Trustees                 22.08 Expenditures
22.03 Qualifications of Trustees       22.09 Annual Report
22.04 Organization of the Board        22.10 Injury to Books or Property
22.05 Powers and Duties                22.11 Theft
22.06 Contracting with Other Libraries 22.12 Notice Posted
 
22.01   PUBLIC LIBRARY.
The public library for the City is known as the Humboldt Public Library. It is
referred to in this chapter as the Library.
22.02   LIBRARY TRUSTEES.
The Board of Trustees of the Library, hereinafter referred to as the Board,
consists of five resident members. All members are to be appointed by the Mayor
with the approval of the Council.
22.03   QUALIFICATIONS OF TRUSTEES.
All members of the Board shall be bona fide citizens and residents of the City.
Members shall be over the age of 18 years.
22.04   ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD.
The organization of the Board shall be as follows:
   1.   Term of Office. All appointments to the Board shall be for six years,
except to fill vacancies. Each term shall commence on July 1. Appointments
shall be made every two years of one-third the total number or as near as
possible, to stagger the terms.
   2.   Vacancies. The position of any Trustee shall be vacated if such member
moves permanently from the City and shall be deemed vacated if such member is
absent from six consecutive regular meetings of the Board, except in the case
of sickness or temporary absence from the City. Vacancies in the Board shall be
filled in the same manner as an original appointment except that the new
Trustee shall fill out the unexpired term for which the appointment is made.
   3.   Compensation. Trustees shall receive no compensation for their
services.
22.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Board shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   1.   Officers. To meet and elect from its members a President, a Secretary,
and such other officers as it deems necessary. The City Treasurer shall serve
as Board Treasurer, but shall not be a member of the Board.
   2.   Physical Plant. To have charge, control and supervision of the Library,
its appurtenances, fixtures and rooms containing the same.
   3.   Charge of Affairs. To direct and control all affairs of the Library.
   4.   Hiring of Personnel. To employ a Library Director, and authorize the
Library Director to employ such assistants and employees as may be necessary
for the proper management of the Library, and fix their compensation; provided,
however, prior to such employment, the compensation of the Library Director,
assistants, and employees shall have been fixed and approved by a majority of
the members of the Board voting in favor thereof.
   5.   Removal of Personnel. To remove the Library Director, by a two-thirds
vote of the Board, and provide procedures for the removal of the assistants or
employees for misdemeanor, incompetence, or inattention to duty, subject
however, to the provisions of Chapter 35C of the Code of Iowa.
   6.   Purchases. To select, or authorize the Library Director to select, and
make purchases of books, pamphlets, magazines, periodicals, papers, maps,
journals, other Library materials, furniture, fixtures, stationery, and
supplies for the Library within budgetary limits set by the Board.
   7.   Use by Nonresidents. To authorize the use of the Library by
nonresidents and to fix charges therefor unless a contract for free service
exists.
   8.   Rules and Regulations. To make and adopt, amend, modify, or repeal
rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this Code of Ordinances and the
law, for the care, use, government and management of the Library and the
business of the Board, fixing and enforcing penalties for violations.
   9.   Expenditures. To have exclusive control of the expenditure of all funds
allocated for Library purposes by the Council, and of all moneys available by
gift or otherwise for the erection of Library buildings, and of all other
moneys belonging to the Library including fines and rentals collected under the
rules of the Board.
   10.   Gifts. To accept gifts of real property, personal property, or mixed
property, and devises and bequests, including trust funds; to take the title to
said property in the name of the Library; to execute deeds and bills of sale
for the conveyance of said property; and to expend the funds received by them
from such gifts, for the improvement of the Library.
   11.   Enforce the Performance of Conditions on Gifts. To enforce the
performance of conditions on gifts, donations, devises and bequests accepted by
the City by action against the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 661)
   12.   Record of Proceedings. To keep a record of its proceedings.
   13.   County Historical Association. To have authority to make agreements
with the local County historical association where such exists, and to set
apart the necessary room and to care for such articles as may come into the
possession of the association. The Trustees are further authorized to purchase
necessary receptacles and materials for the preservation and protection of such
articles as are in their judgment of a historical and educational nature and
pay for the same out of funds allocated for Library purposes.
22.06   CONTRACTING WITH OTHER LIBRARIES.
The Board has power to contract with other libraries in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Contracting. The Board may contract with any other boards of trustees
of free public libraries, with any other city, school corporation, private or
semiprivate organization, institution of higher learning, township, or County,
or with the trustees of any County library district for the use of the Library
by their respective residents.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.5 & Ch. 28E)
   2.   Termination. Such a contract may be terminated at any time by mutual
consent of the contracting parties. It also may be terminated by a majority
vote of the electors represented by either of the contracting parties. Such a
termination proposition shall be submitted to the electors by the governing
body of a contracting party on a written petition of not less than five percent
in number of the electors who voted for governor in the territory of the
contracting party at the last general election. The petition must be presented
to the governing body not less than 40 days before the election. The
proposition may be submitted at any election provided by law which is held in
the territory of the party seeking to terminate the contract.
22.07   NONRESIDENT USE.
The Board may authorize the use of the Library by persons not residents of the
City or County in any one or more of the following ways:
   1.   Lending. By lending the books or other materials of the Library to
nonresidents on the same terms and conditions as to residents of the City, or
County, or upon payment of a special nonresident Library fee.
   2.   Depository. By establishing depositories of Library books or other
materials to be loaned to nonresidents.
   3.   Bookmobiles. By establishing bookmobiles or a traveling library so that
books or other Library materials may be loaned to nonresidents.
   4.   Branch Library. By establishing branch libraries for lending books or
other Library materials to nonresidents.
22.08   EXPENDITURES.
All money appropriated by the Council for the operation and maintenance of the
Library shall be set aside in an account for the Library. Expenditures shall be
paid for only on orders of the Board, signed by its President and Secretary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.20 & 392.5)
22.09   ANNUAL REPORT.
The Board shall make a report to the Council immediately after the close of the
fiscal year. This report shall contain statements as to the condition of the
Library, the number of books added, the number circulated, the amount of fines
collected, and the amount of money expended in the maintenance of the Library
during the year, together with such further information as may be required by
the Council.
22.10   INJURY TO BOOKS OR PROPERTY.
It is unlawful for a person willfully, maliciously or wantonly to tear, deface,
mutilate, injure or destroy, in whole or in part, any newspaper, periodical,
book, map, pamphlet, chart, picture or other property belonging to the Library
or reading room.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
22.11   THEFT.
No person shall take possession or control of property of the Library with the
intent to deprive the Library thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
22.12   NOTICE POSTED.
There shall be posted in clear public view within the Library notices informing
the public of the following:
   1.   Failure to Return. Failure to return Library materials for two months
or more after the date the person agreed to return the Library materials, or
failure to return Library equipment for one month or more after the date the
person agreed to return the Library equipment, is evidence of intent to deprive
the owner, provided a reasonable attempt, including the mailing by restricted
certified mail of notice that such material or equipment is overdue and
criminal actions will be taken, has been made to reclaim the materials or
equipment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.5)
   2.   Detention and Search. Persons concealing Library materials may be
detained and searched pursuant to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 808.12)
CHAPTER 23
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
 
23.01 Planning and Zoning Commission 23.04 Compensation
23.02 Term of Office                 23.05 Powers and Duties
23.03 Vacancies                      23.06 Meeting Fee
 
23.01   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
The organization of the Commission is as follows:
   1.   The City Planning and Zoning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the
Commission, consists of five (5) members appointed by the Council. The
Commission members shall be residents of the City and shall not hold any
elective office in the City government.
(Section 23.01 – Ord. 2023-04 – Jan. 24 Supp.)
23.02   TERM OF OFFICE.
The term of office of the members of the Commission shall be six years. The
terms of not more than one-third of the members will expire in any one year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.03   VACANCIES.
If any vacancy exists on the Commission, caused by resignation or otherwise, a
successor for the residue of the term shall be appointed in the same manner as
the original appointee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.04   COMPENSATION.
All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, except their
actual expenses, which shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Commission shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   1.   Selection of Officers. The Commission shall choose annually at its
first regular meeting one of its members to act as Chairperson and another as
Vice Chairperson, who shall perform all the duties of the Chairperson during
the Chairperson’s absence or disability.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   2.   Adopt Rules and Regulations. The Commission shall adopt such rules and
regulations governing its organization and procedure as it may deem necessary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   3.   Zoning. The Commission shall have and exercise all the powers and
duties and privileges in establishing the City zoning regulations and other
related matters and may from time to time recommend to the Council amendments,
supplements, changes or modifications, all as provided by Chapter 414 of the
Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6)
   4.   Recommendations on Improvements. The design and proposed location of
public improvements shall be submitted to the Commission for its
recommendations prior to any actions being taken by the City for the
construction or placement of such improvements. Such requirements and
recommendations shall not act as a stay upon action for any such improvement if
the Commission, after 30 days’ written notice requesting such recommendations,
has failed to file the same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   5.   Review and Comment on Plats. All plans, plats, or re-plats of
subdivisions or re-subdivisions of land in the City or adjacent thereto, laid
out in lots or plats with the streets, alleys, or other portions of the same
intended to be dedicated to the public in the City, shall first be submitted to
the Commission and its recommendations obtained before approval by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   6.   Fiscal Responsibilities. The Commission shall have full, complete, and
exclusive authority to expend, for and on behalf of the City, all sums of money
appropriated to it and to use and expend all gifts, donations, or payments that
are received by the City for City planning and zoning purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   7.   Limitation on Entering Contracts. The Commission shall have no power to
contract debts beyond the amount of its original or amended appropriation as
approved by the Council for the present year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   8.   Annual Report. The Commission shall each year make a report to the
Mayor and Council of its proceedings, with a full statement of its receipts and
disbursements and the progress of its work during the preceding fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.06    MEETING FEE.
Requests to the Planning and Zoning Commission shall not be considered by the
Commission until a fee, established by resolution, is paid to the Clerk. Such
fee shall be paid at the time the request to the City is made for the Planning
and Zoning Commission to meet.
CHAPTER 24
PARK COMMISSION
24.01 Park Board                 24.09 Poles and Wires
24.02 Election; Term             24.10 Acquisition of Land
24.03 Organization               24.11 Sale or Lease of Property
24.04 Treasurer                  24.12 Limited Leases
24.05 Compensation               24.13 Rules and Regulations
24.06 Budget Certified           24.14 Penalties
24.07 Records and Reports        24.15 Swimming Pool
24.08 Jurisdiction and Authority
 
24.01   PARK BOARD.
There shall be a board of Park Commissioners for the City consisting of five
citizens of legal age.
24.02    ELECTION; TERM.
Two or three commissioners shall be elected at each regular City election for a
term of four years.
24.03    ORGANIZATION.
Within ten days following the regular City election, the Commission shall elect
one of its members as Chairperson and one as Secretary.
24.04    TREASURER.
The City Treasurer is the Treasurer of the Park Commission and pays out all
moneys under the control of the Park Commission on orders signed by the
Chairperson and Secretary, but receives no compensation for such services.
24.05    COMPENSATION.
Each commissioner shall receive compensation of $25.00 for each Commission
meeting attended.
24.06    BUDGET CERTIFIED.
Each year the Park Commission shall submit to the Council a proposed budget and
tax levy for general park purposes for the ensuing fiscal year. The Council
shall include such tax levy, or so much thereof as it may deem necessary, in
the levy for the General Fund of the City as certified to the County Auditor.
24.07    RECORDS AND REPORTS.
The Park Commission shall keep a record of all its transactions and proceedings
and submit a detailed annual report to the Council no later than August 1 of
each year of the amounts of money expended and the purposes for which used.
24.08    JURISDICTION AND AUTHORITY.
The Park Commission has exclusive control of all parks and pleasure grounds
acquired by it or of any other ground owned by the City and set apart for like
purposes within or outside the City. All ordinances of the City shall be in
full force and effect in and over the territory occupied by such parks.
24.09    POLES AND WIRES.
The Park Commission may regulate or forbid the erection of poles or the
stretching of wire for electric light, street, railway, or other purposes in
such parks or in or along streets or highways or over public places laid out or
controlled by it.
24.10    ACQUISITION OF LAND.
The Park Commission may acquire real estate within or outside the City for park
purposes by donation, lease, purchase, or condemnation, take the title to real
estate in the name of the Park Commission in trust for the public and hold it
exempt from taxation.
24.11    SALE OR LEASE OF PROPERTY.
Subject to the approval of the Council, the Park Commission may sell, exchange,
or lease any real estate acquired by it which in its discretion is unfit, not
desirable, unnecessary, or not required for park purposes.
24.12    LIMITED LEASES.
The Park Commission may lease under reasonable rates and requirements a
particular park or portion thereof, as follows:
   1.   Organizations. For a period not in excess of ten days to charitable,
fraternal and patriotic organizations for the conduct of celebrations,
anniversaries and entertainment.
   2.   Professional Games. For such time, not to exceed six consecutive
months, for the purpose of permitting the playing of professional baseball or
other professional games.
24.13    RULES AND REGULATIONS.
The Park Commission shall have the power to make rules and regulations for the
use of park or other facilities under its control. Such rules shall be posted
on the facility or otherwise publicized in a manner to provide adequate notice
to the public.
24.14    PENALTIES.
Any person who violates a Park Commission rule or regulation which has been
approved by the Council and adopted by ordinance may be subjected to the
penalties provided for in the ordinance adopting the rule or regulation.
24.15    SWIMMING POOL.
The Park Commission shall have exclusive control of the City swimming pool and
the area surrounding it, which is incidental to or a part of the pool.
CHAPTER 25
AIRPORT COMMISSION
 
25.01 Airport Commission   25.05 Bond
25.02 Appointment and Term 25.06 Officers
25.03 Vacancies            25.07 Powers and Duties
25.04 Compensation         25.08 Annual Report
 
25.01   AIRPORT COMMISSION.
There is hereby created an Airport Commission consisting of five members who
shall be residents of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.20)
25.02   APPOINTMENT AND TERM.
Commissioners shall be appointed by the Council for staggered terms of six
years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.20)
25.03   VACANCIES.
Vacancies shall be filled by appointment of the Council to fill out the
unexpired term for which the appointment was made.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.20)
25.04   COMPENSATION.
Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.20)
25.05   BOND.
Each Commissioner shall execute and furnish a bond in the amount of $1,000.00
and the bond shall be filed with the City Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.20)
25.06   OFFICERS.
The Commission shall elect from its own members a Chairperson and Secretary who
shall serve for such term as the Commission shall determine.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.20)
25.07   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Commission shall have and exercise the following powers and duties.
   1.   General. The Commission has all the powers in relation to airports
granted to cities under State law except powers to sell the airport.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.21)
   2.   Budget. The Commission shall annually certify the amount of tax to be
levied for airport purposes, and upon such certification the Council may
include all or a portion of said amount in its budget.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.21)
   3.   Funds. All funds derived from taxation or otherwise for airport
purposes shall be under the full and absolute control of the Commission for the
purposes prescribed by law, and shall be deposited with the Treasurer or City
Clerk to the credit of the Airport Commission, and shall be disbursed only on
the written orders of the Airport Commission, including the payment of all
indebtedness arising from the acquisition and construction of airports and the
maintenance, operation, and extension thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.21)
25.08   ANNUAL REPORT.
The Airport Commission shall immediately after the close of each municipal
fiscal year, file with the City Clerk a detailed and audited written report of
all money received and disbursed by the Commission during said fiscal year, and
shall publish a summary thereof in an official newspaper.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.22)
CHAPTER 26
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
 
26.01 Purpose and Intent 26.03 Structure of Commission
26.02 Definitions        26.04 Powers of the Commission
 
26.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
The purposes of this chapter are to:
   1.   Promote the educational, cultural, economic and general welfare of the
public through the recognition, enhancement and perpetuation of sites and
districts of historical and cultural significance;
   2.   Safeguard the City’s historic, aesthetic and cultural heritage by
preserving sites and districts of historic and cultural significance;
   3.   Stabilize and improve property values;
   4.   Foster pride in the legacy of beauty and achievements of the past;
   5.   Protect and enhance the City’s attractions to tourists and visitors and
the support and stimulus to business thereby provided;
   6.   Strengthen the economy of the City;
   7.   Promote the use of sites and districts of historic and cultural
significance as places for the education, pleasure, and welfare of the people
of the City.
26.02    DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Commission” means the Humboldt Historic Preservation Commission, as
established by this chapter.
   2.   “Historic district” means an area which contains a significant portion
of buildings, structures or other improvements which, considered as a whole,
possess integrity of location, design, setting, materials, workmanship, feeling
and association, and which area as a whole:
      A.   Embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period or method
of construction, or represents the work of a master, or possesses high artistic
values, or represents a significant and distinguishable entity whose components
may lack individual distinction; or
      B.   Is associated with events that have made significant contributions
to the broad patterns of our local, state or national history; or
      C.   Possesses a coherent and distinctive visual character or integrity
based upon similarity of scale, design, color, setting, workmanship, materials
or combinations thereof which is deemed to add significantly to the value and
attractiveness of properties within such area; or
      D.   Is associated with the lives of persons significant in our past; or
      E.   Has yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in
prehistory or history.
   3.   “Historic site” means a structure or building which:
      A.   Is associated with events that have made a significant contribution
to the broad patterns of our history; or
      B.   Is associated with the lives of persons significant in our past; or
      C.   Embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period or method
of construction or represents the work of a master, or possesses high artistic
values, or represents a significant and distinguishable entity whose components
may lack individual distinction; or
      D.   Has yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in
prehistory or history.
26.03    STRUCTURE OF COMMISSION.
The organization of the Commission is as follows:
   1.   The Commission consists of five members who are residents of the City.
   2.   Members of the Commission shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
advice and consent of the Council. Members shall demonstrate a positive
interest in historic preservation, possessing interest or expertise in
architecture, architectural history, historic preservation, city planning,
building rehabilitation, conservation in general or real estate.
   3.   The Commission members are appointed for staggered terms of three
years, from January 1 following the year of such appointment or until
successors are appointed. Members may serve for more than one term. Each member
shall serve until the appointment of a successor.
   4.   Vacancies occurring in the Commission, other than expiration of term of
office, shall be only for the unexpired portion of the term of the member
replaced.
   5.   Members shall serve without compensation.
   6.   A simple majority of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business.
   7.   The Commission shall elect a Chairperson who shall preside over all
Commission meetings and elect a Secretary who shall be responsible for
maintaining written records of the Commission’s proceedings.
   8.   The Commission shall meet at least three times a year.
26.04    POWERS OF THE COMMISSION.
   1.   The Commission may conduct studies for the identification and
designation of historic districts and sites meeting the definitions established
by this chapter. (The necessary inventory forms and procedures for their
completion are available from the State Bureau of Historic Preservation.) The
Commission may proceed at its own initiative or upon a petition from any
person, group or association. The Commission shall maintain records of all
studies and inventories for public use.
   2.   The Commission may make a recommendation to the State Bureau of
Historic Preservation for the listing of an historic district or site in the
National Register of Historic Places and may conduct a public hearing thereon.
   3.   The Commission may investigate and recommend to the Council the
adoption of ordinances designating historic sites and historic districts if
they qualify as defined herein.
   4.   In addition to those duties and powers specified above, the Commission
may, with Council approval,
      A.   Accept unconditional gifts and donations of real and personal
property, including money, for the purpose of historic preservation;
      B.   Acquire, by purchase, bequest or donation, fee and lesser interests
in historic properties, including properties adjacent to or associated with
historic properties;
      C.   Preserve, restore, maintain and operate historic properties under
the ownership or control of the Commission;
      D.   Lease, sell and otherwise transfer or dispose of historic properties
subject to rights of public access and other covenants and in a manner that
will preserve the property;
      E.   Contract with State or Federal government or other organizations;
      F.   Cooperate with Federal, State and local governments in the pursuance
of the objectives of historic preservation;
      G.   Provide information for the purpose of historic preservation to the
Council; and
      H.   Promote and conduct an educational and interpretive program on
historic properties within its jurisdiction.
CHAPTER 27
PUBLIC SAFETY COMMISSION
 
27.01 Purpose 27.02 Membership
 
27.01 PURPOSE.
The City hereby agrees to participate in the creation, maintenance, funding and
management of the Humboldt County Public Safety Commission and further by this
section transfers control of the police, fire and ambulance dispatching system
to the authority and control of said Commission. The City further transfers by
this section control and authority over the maintenance of a physical facility
to house City law enforcement agencies and to participate in funding of the
cost of these services as the Public Safety Commission and Council may
establish from time to time.
27.02    MEMBERSHIP.
The City shall be represented upon the board of said Commission by two elected
officials, at least one of whom shall be a Council member, appointed by the
Mayor, subject to approval of the Council. The term of office for these members
shall be established by the bylaws of the Commission. Should, for any reason, a
City representative to said board leave the board prior to the expiration of
said representative’s term, a replacement shall be appointed.
CHAPTER 30
POLICE DEPARTMENT
 
30.01 Department Established       30.06 Police Chief Appointed
30.02 Organization                 30.07 Powers and Duties of Police Chief
30.03 Peace Officer Qualifications 30.08 Departmental Rules
30.04 Required Training            30.09 Summoning Aid
30.05 Compensation                 30.10 Taking Weapons
 
30.01   DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
The Police Department of the City is established to provide for the
preservation of peace and enforcement of law and ordinances within the
corporate limits of the City.
30.02   ORGANIZATION.
The department consists of the Police Chief and such other law enforcement
officers and personnel, whether full or part time, as may be authorized by the
Council.
30.03   PEACE OFFICER QUALIFICATIONS.
In no case shall any person be selected or appointed as a law enforcement
officer unless such person meets the minimum qualification standards
established by the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11)
30.04   REQUIRED TRAINING.
All peace officers shall have received the minimum training required by law at
an approved law enforcement training school within one year of employment.
Peace officers shall also meet the minimum in-service training as required by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11[2])
(IAC, 501-3 and 501-8)
30.05   COMPENSATION.
Members of the department are designated by rank and receive such compensation
as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
30.06   POLICE CHIEF APPOINTED.
The City Administrator shall appoint the Police Chief.      
(Ord. 2020-07 – Jun. 22 Supp.)
30.07   POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE CHIEF.
The Police Chief has the following powers and duties subject to the approval of
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   General. Perform all duties required of the Police Chief by law or
ordinance.
   2.   Enforce Laws. Enforce all laws, ordinances, and regulations and bring
all persons committing any offense before the proper court.
   3.   Writs. Execute and return all writs and other processes directed to the
Police Chief.
   4.   Accident Reports. Report all motor vehicle accidents investigated to
the State Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.266)
   5.   Prisoners. Be responsible for the custody of prisoners, including
conveyance to detention facilities as may be required.
   6.   Assist Officials. When requested, provide aid to other City officers,
boards, and commissions in the execution of their official duties.
   7.   Investigations. Provide for such investigation as may be necessary for
the prosecution of any person alleged to have violated any law or ordinance.
   8.   Record of Arrests. Keep a record of all arrests made in the City by
showing whether said arrests were made under provisions of State law or City
ordinance, the offense charged, who made the arrest and the disposition of the
charge.
   9.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report
as well as such other reports as may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
   10.   Command. Be in command of all officers appointed for police work and
be responsible for the care, maintenance, and use of all vehicles, equipment,
and materials of the department.
30.08   DEPARTMENTAL RULES.
The Police Chief shall establish such rules, not in conflict with the Code of
Ordinances, and subject to the approval of the Council, as may be necessary for
the operation of the department.
30.09   SUMMONING AID.
Any peace officer making a legal arrest may orally summon as many persons as
the officer reasonably finds necessary to aid the officer in making the arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.17)
30.10   TAKING WEAPONS.
Any person who makes an arrest may take from the person arrested all items that
are capable of causing bodily harm which the arrested person may have within
such person’s control, to be disposed of according to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.18)
CHAPTER 35
FIRE DEPARTMENT
35.01 Establishment and Purpose 35.09 Constitution
35.02 Organization              35.10 Accidental Injury Insurance
35.03 Approved by Council       35.11 Liability Insurance
35.04 Training                  35.12 Calls Outside City
35.05 Compensation              35.13 Mutual Aid
35.06 Election of Officers      35.14 Authority to Cite Violations
35.07 Duties of Fire Chief      35.15 Emergency Ambulance Service
35.08 Obedience to Fire Chief
 
35.01   ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
A volunteer fire department is hereby established to prevent and extinguish
fires and to protect lives and property against fires, to promote fire
prevention and fire safety, and to answer all emergency calls for which there
is no other established agency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.16)
35.02   ORGANIZATION.
The department consists of the Fire Chief and such other officers and personnel
as may be authorized by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
35.03   APPROVED BY COUNCIL.
No person having otherwise qualified shall be appointed to the department until
such appointment is submitted to and approved by a majority of the Council
members.
35.04   TRAINING.
All members of the department shall meet the minimum training standards
established by the State Fire Marshal and attend and actively participate in
regular or special training drills or programs as directed by the Fire Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100B.2[4])
35.05   COMPENSATION.
Members of the department shall be designated by rank and receive such
compensation as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
35.06   ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
The department shall elect a Fire Chief and such other officers as its
constitution and bylaws may provide, but the election of the Fire Chief shall
be subject to the approval of the Council. In case of absence of the Fire
Chief, the officer next in rank shall be in charge and have and exercise all
the powers of Fire Chief.
35.07   DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
The Fire Chief shall perform all duties required of the Fire Chief by law or
ordinance, including (but not limited to) the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Enforce Laws. Enforce ordinances and laws regulating fire prevention
and the investigation of the cause, origin, and circumstances of fires.
   2.   Technical Assistance. Upon request, give advice concerning private fire
alarm systems, fire extinguishing equipment, fire escapes and exits, and
development of fire emergency plans.
   3.   Authority at Fires. When in charge of a fire scene, direct an operation
as necessary to extinguish or control a fire, perform a rescue operation,
investigate the existence of a suspected or reported fire, gas leak, or other
hazardous condition, or take any other action deemed necessary in the
reasonable performance of the department’s duties.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
   4.   Control of Scenes. Prohibit an individual, vehicle, or vessel from
approaching a fire scene and remove from the scene any object, vehicle, vessel,
or individual that may impede or interfere with the operation of the Fire
Department.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
   5.   Authority to Barricade. When in charge of a fire scene, place or erect
ropes, guards, barricades, or other obstructions across a street, alley, right-
of-way, or private property near the location of the fire or emergency so as to
prevent accidents or interference with the firefighting efforts of the Fire
Department, to control the scene until any required investigation is complete,
or to preserve evidence related to the fire or other emergency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.3)
   6.   Command. Be charged with the duty of maintaining the efficiency,
discipline, and control of the Fire Department. The members of the Fire
Department shall, at all times, be subject to the direction of the Fire Chief.
   7.   Property. Exercise and have full control over the disposition of all
fire apparatus, tools, equipment, and other property used by or belonging to
the Fire Department.
   8.   Notification. Whenever death, serious bodily injury, or property damage
in excess of $200,000.00 has occurred as a result of a fire, or if arson is
suspected, notify the State Fire Marshal’s Division immediately. For all other
fires causing an estimated damage of $50.00 or more or emergency responses by
the Fire Department, file a report with the Fire Marshal’s Division within 10
days following the end of the month. The report shall indicate all fire
incidents occurring and state the name of the owners and occupants of the
property at the time of the fire, the value of the property, the estimated
total loss to the property, origin of the fire as determined by investigation,
and other facts, statistics, and circumstances concerning the fire incidents.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.2 & 100.3)
   9.   Right of Entry. Have the right, during reasonable hours, to enter any
building or premises within the Fire Chief’s jurisdiction for the purpose of
making such investigation or inspection that under law or ordinance may be
necessary to be made and that is reasonably necessary to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.12)
   10.   Recommendation. Make such recommendations to owners, occupants,
caretakers, or managers of buildings necessary to eliminate fire hazards.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.13)
   11.   Assist State Fire Marshal. At the request of the State Fire Marshal,
and as provided by law, aid said marshal in the performance of duties by
investigating, preventing and reporting data pertaining to fires.
   12.   Records. Cause to be kept records of the Fire Department personnel,
firefighting equipment, depreciation of all equipment and apparatus, the number
of responses to alarms, their cause, and location, and an analysis of losses by
value, type and location of buildings.
   13.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report
of the status and activities of the department as well as such other reports as
may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
35.08   OBEDIENCE TO FIRE CHIEF.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of the Fire Chief.
35.09   CONSTITUTION.
The department shall adopt a constitution and bylaws as they deem calculated to
accomplish the object contemplated, and such constitution and bylaws and any
change or amendment to such constitution and bylaws before being effective,
must be approved by the Council.
35.10   ACCIDENTAL INJURY INSURANCE.
The Council shall contract to insure the City against liability for worker’s
compensation and against statutory liability for the costs of hospitalization,
nursing, and medical attention for volunteer firefighters injured in the
performance of their duties as firefighters whether within or outside the
corporate limits of the City. All volunteer firefighters shall be covered by
the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 85.2, 85.61 and Sec. 410.18)
35.11   LIABILITY INSURANCE.
The Council shall contract to insure against liability of the City or members
of the department for injuries, death or property damage arising out of and
resulting from the performance of departmental duties within or outside the
corporate limits of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 670.2 & 517A.1)
35.12   CALLS OUTSIDE FIRE DISTRICT.
The department shall answer calls to fires and other emergencies outside the
Fire District if the Fire Chief determines that such emergency exists and that
such action will not endanger persons and property within the Fire District.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 & 3])
35.13   MUTUAL AID.
Subject to approval by resolution of the Council, the department may enter into
mutual aid agreements with other legally constituted fire departments. Copies
of any such agreements shall be filed with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 & 3])
35.14   AUTHORITY TO CITE VIOLATIONS.
Fire officials acting under the authority of Chapter 100 of the Code of Iowa
may issue citations in accordance to Chapter 805 of the Code of Iowa, for
violations of State and/or local fire safety regulations.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.41)
35.15   EMERGENCY AMBULANCE SERVICE.
The department is authorized to provide emergency ambulance or rescue services,
and the accidental injury and liability insurance provided for herein shall
include such operation.
CHAPTER 36
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE SPILLS
 
36.01 Purpose                     36.05 Notifications
36.02 Definitions                 36.06 Police Authority
36.03 Cleanup Required            36.07 Liability
36.04 Liability for Cleanup Costs
 
36.01   PURPOSE.
In order to reduce the danger to the public health, safety, and welfare from
the leaks and spills of hazardous substances, these regulations are promulgated
to establish responsibility for the treatment, removal and cleanup of hazardous
substance spills within the City limits.
36.02   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Cleanup” means actions necessary to contain, collect, control,
identify, analyze, clean up, treat, disperse, remove, or dispose of a hazardous
substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[1])
   2.   “Hazardous condition” means any situation involving the actual,
imminent, or probable spillage, leakage, or release of a hazardous substance
onto the land, into a water of the State, or into the atmosphere which creates
an immediate or potential danger to the public health or safety or to the
environment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[4])
   3.   “Hazardous substance” means any substance or mixture of substances that
presents a danger to the public health or safety and includes, but is not
limited to, a substance that is toxic, corrosive, or flammable, or that is an
irritant or that generates pressure through decomposition, heat, or other
means. “Hazardous substance” may include any hazardous waste identified or
listed by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency under the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended by the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, or any toxic pollutant listed under
Section 307 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1,
1977, or any hazardous substance designated under Section 311 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1, 1977, or any hazardous
material designated by the Secretary of Transportation under the Hazardous
Materials Transportation Act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[5])
   4.   “Responsible person” means a person who at any time produces, handles,
stores, uses, transports, refines, or disposes of a hazardous substance, the
release of which creates a hazardous condition, including bailees, carriers,
and any other person in control of a hazardous substance when a hazardous
condition occurs, whether the person owns the hazardous substance or is
operating under a lease, contract, or other agreement with the legal owner of
the hazardous substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[7])
36.03   CLEANUP REQUIRED.
Whenever a hazardous condition is created by the deposit, injection, dumping,
spilling, leaking or placing of a hazardous substance, so that the hazardous
substance or a constituent of the hazardous substance may enter the environment
or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including ground
waters, the responsible person shall cause the condition to be remedied by a
cleanup, as defined in the preceding section, as rapidly as feasible to an
acceptable, safe condition. The costs of cleanup shall be borne by the
responsible person. If the responsible person does not cause the cleanup to
begin in a reasonable time in relation to the hazard and circumstances of the
incident, the City may, by an authorized officer, give reasonable notice, based
on the character of the hazardous condition, said notice setting a deadline for
accomplishing the cleanup and stating that the City will proceed to procure
cleanup services and bill the responsible person for all costs associated with
the cleanup if the cleanup is not accomplished within the deadline. In the
event that it is determined that immediate cleanup is necessary as a result of
the present danger to the public health, safety and welfare, then no notice
shall be required and the City may proceed to procure the cleanup and bill the
responsible person for all costs associated with the cleanup. If the bill for
those services is not paid within 30 days, the City Attorney shall proceed to
obtain payment by all legal means. If the cost of the cleanup is beyond the
capacity of the City to finance it, the authorized officer shall report to the
Council and immediately seek any State or federal funds available for said
cleanup.
36.04   LIABILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS.
The responsible person shall be strictly liable to the City for all of the
following:
   1.   The reasonable cleanup costs incurred by the City or the agents of the
City as a result of the failure of the responsible person to clean up a
hazardous substance involved in a hazardous condition.
   2.   The reasonable costs incurred by the City or the agents of the City to
evacuate people from the area threatened by a hazardous condition caused by the
person.
   3.   The reasonable damages to the City for the injury to, destruction of,
or loss of City property, including parks and roads, resulting from a hazardous
condition caused by that person, including the costs of assessing the injury,
destruction or loss.
   4.   The excessive and extraordinary cost incurred by the City or the agents
of the City in responding at and to the scene of a hazardous condition caused
by that person.
36.05   NOTIFICATIONS.
   1.   A person manufacturing, storing, handling, transporting, or disposing
of a hazardous substance shall notify the State Department of Natural Resources
and the Police Department of the occurrence of a hazardous condition as soon as
possible but not later than six hours after the onset of the hazardous
condition or discovery of the hazardous condition. The Police Department shall
immediately notify the Department of Natural Resources.
   2.   Any other person who discovers a hazardous condition shall notify the
Police Department, which shall then notify the Department of Natural Resources.
36.06   POLICE AUTHORITY.
If the circumstances reasonably so require, the law enforcement officer or an
authorized representative may:
   1.   Evacuate persons from their homes to areas away from the site of a
hazardous condition, and
   2.   Establish perimeters or other boundaries at or near the site of a
hazardous condition and limit access to cleanup personnel.
No person shall disobey an order of any law enforcement officer issued under
this section.
36.07   LIABILITY.
The City shall not be liable to any person for claims of damages, injuries, or
losses resulting from any hazardous condition, unless the City is the
responsible person as defined in Section
36.02(4).
CHAPTER 40
PUBLIC PEACE
 
40.01 Assault            40.04 Unlawful Assembly
40.02 Harassment         40.05 Failure to Disperse
40.03 Disorderly Conduct 40.06 Vehicle Noise Limits
 
40.01   ASSAULT.
No person shall, without justification, commit any of the following:
   1.   Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to cause pain or injury to
another or that is intended to result in physical contact that will be
insulting or offensive to another, coupled with the apparent ability to execute
the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[1])
   2.   Threat of Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to place another in
fear of immediate physical contact which will be painful, injurious, insulting,
or offensive, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[2])
An act described in Subsections 1 and 2 shall not be an assault under the
following circumstances: (i) if the person doing any of the enumerated acts,
and such other person, are voluntary participants in a sport, social or other
activity, not in itself criminal, and such act is a reasonably foreseeable
incident of such sport or activity, and does not create an unreasonable risk of
serious injury or breach of the peace; (ii) if the person doing any of the
enumerated acts is employed by a school district or accredited nonpublic
school, or is an area education agency staff member who provides services to a
school or school district, and intervenes in a fight or physical struggle or
other disruptive situation that takes place in the presence of the employee or
staff member performing employment duties in a school building, on school
grounds, or at an official school function, regardless of the location, whether
the fight or physical struggle or other disruptive situation is between
students or other individuals, if the degree and the force of the intervention
is reasonably necessary to restore order and to protect the safety of those
assembled.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1)
40.02   HARASSMENT.
No person shall commit harassment.
   1.   A person commits harassment when, with intent to intimidate, annoy, or
alarm another person, the person does any of the following:
      A.   Communicates with another by telephone, telegraph, writing, or via
electronic communication without legitimate purpose and in a manner likely to
cause the other person annoyance or harm.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      B.   Places any simulated explosive or simulated incendiary device in or
near any building, vehicle, airplane, railroad engine or railroad car, or boat
occupied by the other person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      C.   Orders merchandise or services in the name of another, or to be
delivered to another, without such other person’s knowledge or consent.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      D.   Reports or causes to be reported false information to a law
enforcement authority implicating another in some criminal activity, knowing
that the information is false, or reports the alleged occurrence of a criminal
act, knowing the same did not occur.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   2.   A person commits harassment when the person, purposefully and without
legitimate purpose, has personal contact with another person, with the intent
to threaten, intimidate or alarm that other person. As used in this section,
unless the context otherwise requires, “personal contact” means an encounter in
which two or more people are in visual or physical proximity to each other.
“Personal contact” does not require a physical touching or oral communication,
although it may include these types of contacts.
40.03   DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
No person shall do any of the following:
   1.   Fighting. Engage in fighting or violent behavior in any public place or
in or near any lawful assembly of persons, provided that participants in
athletic contests may engage in such conduct that is reasonably related to that
sport.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1])
   2.   Noise. Make loud and raucous noise in the vicinity of any residence or
public building which causes unreasonable distress to the occupants thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[2])
   3.   Abusive Language. Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening
gesture that the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a
violent reaction by another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[3])
   4.   Disrupt Lawful Assembly. Without lawful authority or color of
authority, disturb any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by conduct
intended to disrupt the meeting or assembly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[4])
   5.   False Report of Catastrophe. By words or action, initiate or circulate
a report or warning of fire, epidemic, or other catastrophe, knowing such
report to be false or such warning to be baseless.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[5])
   6.   Disrespect of Flag. Knowingly and publicly use the flag of the United
States in such a manner as to show disrespect for the flag as a symbol of the
United States, with the intent or reasonable expectation that such use will
provoke or encourage another to commit trespass or assault. As used in this
subsection:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[6])
      A.   “Deface” means to intentionally mar the external appearance.
      B.   “Defile” means to intentionally make physically unclean.
      C.   “Flag” means a piece of woven cloth or other material designed to be
flown from a pole or mast.
      D.   “Mutilate” means to intentionally cut up or alter so as to make
imperfect.
      E.   “Show disrespect” means to deface, defile, mutilate, or trample.
      F.   “Trample” means to intentionally tread upon or intentionally cause a
machine, vehicle, or animal to tread upon.
   7.   Obstruct Use of Street. Without authority or justification, obstruct
any street, sidewalk, highway, or other public way, with the intent to prevent
or hinder its lawful use by others.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[7])
   8.   Funeral or Memorial Service. Within 1,000 feet of the building or other
location where a funeral or memorial service is being conducted, or within
1,000 feet of a funeral procession or burial:
      A.   Make loud and raucous noise that causes unreasonable distress to the
persons attending the funeral or memorial service or participating in the
funeral procession.
      B.   Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture that the
person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent reaction
by another.
      C.   Disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial service, funeral
procession, or burial by conduct intended to disturb or disrupt the funeral,
memorial service, funeral procession, or burial.
This subsection applies to conduct within 60 minutes preceding, during, and
within 60 minutes after a funeral, memorial service, funeral procession, or
burial.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5)
40.04   UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
It is unlawful for three or more persons to assemble together, with them or any
of them acting in a violent manner, and with intent that they or any of them
will commit a public offense. No person shall willingly join in or remain part
of an unlawful assembly, knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe it is
such.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.2)
40.05   FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
A peace officer may order the participants in a riot or unlawful assembly or
persons in the immediate vicinity of a riot or unlawful assembly to disperse.
No person within hearing distance of such command shall refuse to obey.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.3)
40.06    VEHICLE NOISE LIMITS.
No person shall operate, in a public place or on any public street, highway,
alley or any parking lot, a motor vehicle in which a stereo, tape player,
compact disc player, radio or any other sound amplification device can be heard
a distance of 75 feet or more from the vehicle. The provisions of this section
may be enforced following personal observation or hearing of any police officer
or upon receipt of a complaint. The Police Chief or the Council may grant a
temporary variance to this section to facilitate special events. The Police
Chief is specifically authorized to revoke a variance if the applicant fails to
meet any of the limitations placed upon the variance and/or if other
circumstances occur subsequent to the granting of the variance requiring
revocation.
CHAPTER 41
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
41.01 Distributing Dangerous Substances                  41.09 Antenna and
                                                         Radio Wires
41.02 False Reports to or Communications with Public     41.10 Barbed Wire and
Safety Entities                                          Electric Fences
41.03 Providing False Identification Information         41.11 Discharging
                                                         Weapons
41.04 Refusing to Assist Officer                         41.12 Throwing and
                                                         Shooting
41.05 Harassment of Public Officers and Employees        41.13 Urinating and
                                                         Defecating
41.06 Interference with Official Acts                    41.14 Fireworks
41.07 Removal of an Officer’s Communication or Control 41.15 Drug
Device                                                   Paraphernalia
41.08 Abandoned or Unattended Refrigerators
 
41.01   DISTRIBUTING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
No person shall distribute samples of any drugs or medicine, or any corrosive,
caustic, poisonous or other injurious substance unless the person delivers such
into the hands of a competent person, or otherwise takes reasonable precautions
that the substance will not be taken by children or animals from the place
where the substance is deposited.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.1)
41.02   FALSE REPORTS TO OR COMMUNICATIONS WITH PUBLIC SAFETY ENTITIES.
No person shall do any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.6)
   1.   Report or cause to be reported false information to a fire department,
a law enforcement authority or other public safety entity, knowing that the
information is false, or report the alleged occurrence of a criminal act
knowing the act did not occur.
   2.   Telephone an emergency 911 communications center, knowing that he or
she is not reporting an emergency or otherwise needing emergency information or
assistance.
   3.   Knowingly provide false information to a law enforcement officer who
enters the information on a citation.
41.03   PROVIDING FALSE IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION.
No person shall knowingly provide false identification information to anyone
known by the person to be a peace officer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, in the performance of any act that is
within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, emergency
medical care provider, or firefighter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1A)
41.04   REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
Any person who is requested or ordered by any magistrate or peace officer to
render the magistrate or officer assistance in making or attempting to make an
arrest, or to prevent the commission of any criminal act, shall render
assistance as required. No person shall unreasonably and without lawful cause,
refuse or neglect to render assistance when so requested.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.2)
41.05   HARASSMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
No person shall willfully prevent or attempt to prevent any public officer or
employee from performing the officer’s or employee’s duty.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.4)
41.06   INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTS.
No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct anyone known by the person to be a
peace officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider under Chapter 147A of
the Code of Iowa, or firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, or a person
performing bailiff duties pursuant to Section 602.1303[4] of the Code of Iowa,
in the performance of any act that is within the scope of the lawful duty or
authority of that officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, or person performing bailiff duties, or shall knowingly resist or
obstruct the service or execution by any authorized person of any civil or
criminal process or order of any court. The terms “resist” and “obstruct” as
used in this section do not include verbal harassment unless the verbal
harassment is accompanied by a present ability and apparent intention to
execute a verbal threat physically.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1)
41.07   REMOVAL OF AN OFFICER’S COMMUNICATION OR CONTROL DEVICE.
No person shall knowingly or intentionally remove or attempt to remove a
communication device or any device used for control from the possession of a
peace officer or correctional officer, when the officer is in the performance
of any act which is within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that
officer and the person knew or should have known the individual to be an
officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.12)
41.08   ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED REFRIGERATORS.
No person shall abandon or otherwise leave unattended any refrigerator, ice
box, or similar container, with doors that may become locked, outside of
buildings and accessible to children, nor shall any person allow any such
refrigerator, ice box, or similar container, to remain outside of buildings on
premises in the person’s possession or control, abandoned or unattended and so
accessible to children.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.3)
41.09   ANTENNA AND RADIO WIRES.
It is unlawful for a person to allow antenna wires, antenna supports, radio
wires, or television wires to exist over any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
public way, public ground, or public building without written consent of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.10   BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
It is unlawful for a person to use barbed wire or electric fences to enclose
land within the City limits without the written consent of the Council unless
such land consists of 10 acres or more and is used as agricultural land.
41.11   DISCHARGING WEAPONS.
 
   1.   It is unlawful for a person to discharge rifles, shotguns, revolvers,
pistols, guns, or other firearms of any kind within the City limits except by
written consent of the Council.
   2.   No person shall intentionally discharge a firearm in a reckless manner.
41.12   THROWING AND SHOOTING.
It is unlawful for a person to throw stones, bricks, or missiles of any kind or
to shoot arrows, paintballs, rubber guns, slingshots, air rifles, BB guns, or
other dangerous instruments or toys on or into any street, alley, highway,
sidewalk, public way, public ground, or public building, without written
consent of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.13   URINATING AND DEFECATING.
It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate onto any sidewalk, street,
alley, or other public way, or onto any public or private building, including
but not limited to the wall, floor, hallway, steps, stairway, doorway, or
window thereof, or onto any public or private land.
41.14   FIREWORKS.
 
   1.   Definitions. The definitions enumerated in Iowa Code Section 727.2 and
Iowa Code Section 100.19, are incorporated herein by reference.
   2.   Sales - General Requirements.
      A.   Dates of Sale. Consumer fireworks sales shall only be conducted in
accordance with dates and times designated by Iowa Code Section 727.2. It shall
be unlawful to sell consumer fireworks without meeting the requirements
specified in this chapter, or to sell fireworks outside of the dates specified.
          (1)   Approved consumer fireworks sales meeting the requirements of
this chapter shall be allowed from an approved permanent structure or building
between June 1 and July 8 and from December 10 until January 3.
         (2)   Approved consumer fireworks sales meeting the requirements of
this chapter shall be allowed from an approved temporary structure between June
13 and July 8.
      B.   Safety Requirements. The following safety requirements shall be
adopted for all locations where consumer fireworks are sold;
         (1)   No person shall sell consumer fireworks to a person under the
age of 18.
         (2)   Consumer fireworks shall not be sold to persons showing visible
signs of, or determined to be, intoxicated or under the influence of a drug or
narcotic.
      C.   Restricted Location. Consumer fireworks sales shall only be allowed
in areas zoned C-2 General Commercial District, I-1 General Industrial
District, or I-2 Heavy Industrial District.
   3.   Fireworks, Restrictions on Discharging.
      A.   No person shall discharge a consumer fireworks device outside the
following dates and hours.
         (1)   July 3rd from the hours of 10:00 A.M. until 10:00 P.M.
(Exception: discharge hours are extended to 11:00 P.M. if the 3rd is a Saturday
or Sunday.)
         (2)   July 4th from the hours of 10:00 A.M. until 11:00 P.M.
         (3)   From 10:00 A.M. on December 31st until 12:30 A.M. on January
1st.
      B.   No person under the age of 18 shall possess or discharge a consumer
firework within the municipal limits of Humboldt without parental supervision.
      C.   A person shall only discharge a consumer fireworks device on real
property they own or on property where consent has been given.
      D.   Discharge of fireworks on public property or within 500 feet of the
Humboldt County fairgrounds boundaries is prohibited.
      E.   Discharge of fireworks within 500 feet of the Independence Day
Parade route is prohibited.
      F.   The City may, upon application in writing, grant a permit for the
display of display fireworks on public property by a City agency, fair
associations, and such other organizations or groups of individuals approved by
City authorities when such display fireworks display will be handled by a
licensed operator. No permit shall be granted hereunder unless the operator or
sponsoring organization has filed with the City evidence of insurance as
required under Iowa Code Section 727.2 and under this Chapter.
      G.   Consumer fireworks shall not be possessed or discharged by persons
showing visible signs of, or determined to be, intoxicated or under the
influence of a drug or narcotics.
      H.   It shall be unlawful to alter, remove, or discharge components of a
consumer fireworks device.
      I.   Sky lantern open flame devices are not permitted to be released
within the City limits, except if tethered by a retrievable rope.
      J.   Any person discharging a consumer fireworks device assumes all
responsibility for its operation and the consequences thereof. No person shall
discharge a consumer fireworks device in a reckless manner or manner such as to
cause death, injury, fire, or property damage.
   4.   Manufacture of Fireworks. It shall be unlawful for a person to
manufacture fireworks within the City limits without a permit as may be
required by local, State, or federal laws and regulations.
   5.   Violations. All violations of any provisions of this Chapter may be
prosecuted by the City either as simple misdemeanors or municipal infractions.
A landowner who knowingly allows persons to discharge fireworks on their
property in violation of this chapter shall also be deemed to be in violation.
Violations of this chapter shall be reported to the State Fire Marshal.
41.15   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 124.414)
   1.   As used in this section “drug paraphernalia” means all equipment,
products or materials of any kind used or attempted to be used in combination
with a controlled substance, except those items used in combination with the
lawful use of a controlled substance, to knowingly or intentionally and
primarily do any of the following:
      A.   Manufacture a controlled substance.
      B.   Inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance.
      C.   Test the strength, effectiveness, or purity of a controlled
substance.
      D.   Enhance the effect of a controlled substance.
Drug paraphernalia does not include hypodermic needles or syringes if
manufactured, delivered, sold, or possessed for a lawful purpose.
   2.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally
manufacture, deliver, sell, or possess drug paraphernalia.
CHAPTER 42
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
 
42.01 Trespassing                       42.05 Fraud
42.02 Criminal Mischief                 42.06 Theft
42.03 Defacing Proclamations or Notices 42.07 Other Public Property Offenses
42.04 Unauthorized Entry
 
42.01   TRESPASSING.
   1.   Prohibited. It is unlawful for a person to knowingly trespass upon the
property of another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.8)
   2.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[1])
      A.   “Property” includes any land, dwelling, building, conveyance,
vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure, whether publicly or
privately owned.
      B.   “Public utility” is a public utility as defined in Section 476.1 of
the Code of Iowa or an electric transmission line as provided in Chapter 478 of
the Code of Iowa.
      C.   “Public utility property” means any land, dwelling, building,
conveyance, vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure owned, leased,
or operated by a public utility and that is completely enclosed by a physical
barrier of any kind.
      D.   “Railway corporation” means a corporation, company, or person
owning, leasing, or operating any railroad in whole or in part within this
State.
      E.   “Railway property” means all tangible real and personal property
owned, leased, or operated by a railway corporation, with the exception of any
administrative building or offices of the railway corporation.
      F.   “Trespass” means one or more of the following acts:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2a])
         (1)   Entering upon or in property without the express permission of
the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession with the intent to commit a
public offense or to use, remove therefrom, alter, damage, harass, or place
thereon or therein anything animate or inanimate.
         (2)   Entering or remaining upon or in property without justification
after being notified or requested to abstain from entering or to remove or
vacate therefrom by the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or the
agent or employee of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or by
any peace officer, magistrate, or public employee whose duty it is to supervise
the use or maintenance of the property.
         (3)   Entering upon or in property for the purpose or with the effect
of unduly interfering with the lawful use of the property by others.
         (4)   Being upon or in property and wrongfully using, removing
therefrom, altering, damaging, harassing, or placing thereon or therein
anything animate or inanimate, without the implied or actual permission of the
owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession.
         (5)   Entering or remaining upon or in railway property without lawful
authority or without the consent of the railway corporation which owns, leases,
or operates the railway property. This paragraph does not apply to passage over
a railroad right-of-way, other than a track, railroad roadbed, viaduct, bridge,
trestle, or railroad yard, by an unarmed person if the person has not been
notified or requested to abstain from entering onto the right-of-way or to
vacate the right-of-way and the passage over the right-of-way does not
interfere with the operation of the railroad.
         (6)   Entering or remaining upon or in public utility property without
lawful authority or without the consent of the public utility that owns,
leases, or operates the public utility property. This paragraph does not apply
to passage over public utility right-of-way by a person if the person has not
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering onto the right-of-way or to vacate the right-of-way.
   3.   Specific Exceptions. “Trespass” does not mean either of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2b])
      A.   Entering upon the property of another for the sole purpose of
retrieving personal property which has accidentally or inadvertently been
thrown, fallen, strayed, or blown onto the property of another, provided that
the person retrieving the property takes the most direct and accessible route
to and from the property to be retrieved, quits the property as quickly as is
possible, and does not unduly interfere with the lawful use of the property.
This paragraph does not apply to public utility property where the person has
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering.
      B.   Entering upon the right-of-way of a public road or highway.
42.02   CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
It is unlawful, for any person who has no right to do so, to intentionally
damage, deface, alter, or destroy property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.03   DEFACING PROCLAMATIONS OR NOTICES.
It is unlawful for a person intentionally to deface, obliterate, tear down, or
destroy in whole or in part, any transcript or extract from or of any law of
the United States or the State, or any proclamation, advertisement or
notification, set up at any place within the City by authority of the law or by
order of any court, during the time for which the same is to remain set up.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.04   UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.
No unauthorized person shall enter or remain in or upon any public building,
premises, or grounds in violation of any notice posted thereon or when said
building, premises or grounds are closed and not open to the public. When open
to the public, a failure to pay any required admission fee also constitutes an
unauthorized entry.
42.05   FRAUD.
It is unlawful for any person to commit a fraudulent practice as defined in
Section 714.8 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.8)
42.06   THEFT.
It is unlawful for any person to commit theft as defined in Section 714.1 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
42.07   OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other activities or conditions that are also deemed
to be public property offenses:
   1.   
Chapter 22 – Library
      A.   Section
22.10 – Injury to Books or Property
      B.   Section
22.11 – Theft of Library Property
   2.   
Chapter 105 – Solid Waste Control and Recycling
      A.   Section
105.07 – Littering Prohibited
   3.   
Chapter 135 – Street Use and Maintenance
      A.   Section
135.01 – Removal of Warning Devices
      B.   Section
135.02 – Obstructing or Defacing
      C.   Section
135.03 – Placing Debris On
      D.   Section
135.04 – Playing In
      E.   Section
135.05 – Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley
      F.   Section
135.08 – Burning Prohibited
      G.   Section
135.12 – Dumping of Snow
   4.   
Chapter 136 – Sidewalk Regulations
      A.   Section
136.11 – Interference with Sidewalk Improvements
      B.   Section
136.15 – Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
      C.   Section
136.16 – Defacing
      D.   Section
136.17 – Debris on Sidewalks
      E.   Section
136.18 – Merchandise Display
      F.   Section
136.19 – Sales Stands
CHAPTER 45
ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION AND INTOXICATION
 
45.01 Persons Under Legal Age 45.03 Open Containers in Motor Vehicles
45.02 Public Consumption or   45.04 Social Host
Intoxication
 
45.01   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
As used in this section, “legal age” means 21 years of age or more.  
   1.   A person or persons under legal age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase, consume, or individually or jointly have alcoholic beverages in their
possession or control; except in the case of any alcoholic beverage given or
dispensed to a person under legal age within a private home and with the
knowledge, presence and consent of the parent or guardian, for beverage or
medicinal purposes or as administered to the person by either a physician or
dentist for medicinal purposes and except to the extent that a person under
legal age may handle alcoholic beverages during the regular course of the
person’s employment by a liquor control licensee, or wine or beer permittee
under State laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47[2])
   2.   A person under legal age shall not misrepresent the person’s age for
the purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic beverage from
any liquor control licensee or wine or beer permittee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[3])
45.02   PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OR INTOXICATION.
   1.   As used in this section unless the context otherwise requires:
      A.   “Arrest” means the same as defined in Section 804.5 of the Code of
Iowa and includes taking into custody pursuant to Section 232.19 of the Code of
Iowa.
      B.   “Chemical test” means a test of a person’s blood, breath, or urine
to determine the percentage of alcohol present by a qualified person using
devices and methods approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
      C.   “Peace officer” means the same as defined in Section 801.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
      D.   “School” means a public or private school or that portion of a
public or private school that provides teaching for any grade from kindergarten
through grade twelve.
   2.   A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor, wine or beer upon
the public streets or highways, provided, the City Council may by resolution
allow the consumption of wine and beer on public street that the Council has
authorized to be temporarily closed for special events. A person shall not use
or consume any alcoholic liquor (as defined in Iowa Code Section 123.3(5)) in
any public place, except premises covered by a liquor control license. A person
shall not possess or consume alcoholic liquors, wine or beer on public school
property or while attending any public or private school-related function. A
person shall not be intoxicated or simulate intoxication in a public place. A
person violating this subsection is guilty of a simple misdemeanor.
   3.   A person shall not simulate intoxication in a public place.
   4.   When a peace officer arrests a person on a charge of public
intoxication under this section, the peace officer shall inform the person that
the person may have a chemical test administered at the person’s own expense.
If a device approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety for testing a sample
of a person’s breath to determine the person’s blood alcohol concentration is
available, that is the only test that need be offered the person arrested. In a
prosecution for public intoxication, evidence of the results of a chemical test
performed under this subsection is admissible upon proof of a proper
foundation. The percentage of alcohol present in a person’s blood, breath, or
urine established by the results of a chemical test performed within two hours
after the person’s arrest on a charge of public intoxication is presumed to be
the percentage of alcohol present at the time of arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.46)
45.03   OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
[See Section
62.01(49) and (50) of this Code of Ordinances.]
45.04   SOCIAL HOST.
A person who is the owner or lessee of, or who otherwise has control over,
property that is not a licensed premises shall not knowingly permit any person,
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the person to be under the age of
eighteen, to consume or possess on such property any alcoholic beverage. The
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a landlord or manager of the
property or to a person under legal age who consumes or possesses any alcoholic
beverage in connection with a religious observance, ceremony, or rite.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47)
CHAPTER 46
MINORS
 
46.01 Cigarettes and Tobacco 46.02 Contributing to Delinquency
 
46.01   CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO.
It is unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to smoke, use, possess,
purchase, or attempt to purchase any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes. Possession of tobacco,
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes
by a person under 18 years of age shall not constitute a violation of this
section if said person possesses the tobacco, tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes as part of the person’s
employment and said person is employed by a person who holds a valid permit
under Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or who lawfully offers for sale or sells
cigarettes or tobacco products.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2)
46.02   CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY.
It is unlawful for any person to encourage any child under 18 years of age to
commit any act of delinquency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 709A.1)
CHAPTER 47
PARK REGULATIONS
 
47.01 Purpose                47.04 Littering
47.02 Use of Drives Required 47.05 Parks Closed
47.03 Fires                  47.06 Camping
 
47.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the enjoyment of park facilities
by the general public by establishing rules and regulations governing the use
of park facilities.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12)
47.02   USE OF DRIVES REQUIRED.
No person shall drive any car, cycle or other vehicle, or ride or lead any
horse, in any portion of a park except upon the established drives or roadways
therein or such other places as may be officially designated by the City.
47.03   FIRES.
No fire shall be built, except in a place designated for such purpose, and such
fire shall be extinguished before leaving the area unless it is to be
immediately used by some other party.
47.04   LITTERING.
No person shall place, deposit, or throw any waste, refuse, litter or foreign
substance in any area or receptacle except those provided for that purpose.
47.05   PARKS CLOSED.
No person, except those camping in designated areas, shall enter or remain
within any park between the hours of 11:00 p.m. - 6:00 a.m.
47.06   CAMPING.
No person shall camp in any portion of a park except in portions prescribed or
designated by the Council, and the City may refuse camping privileges or
rescind any and all camping privileges for cause.
CHAPTER 50
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
 
50.01 Definition of Nuisance 50.05 Nuisance Abatement
50.02 Nuisances Enumerated   50.06 Abatement of Nuisance by Written Notice
50.03 Other Conditions       50.07 Municipal Infraction Abatement Procedure
50.04 Nuisances Prohibited
 
50.01   DEFINITION OF NUISANCE.
Whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or unreasonably offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is a
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.1)
50.02   NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions that are
deemed to be nuisances in the City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.2)
   1.   Offensive Smells. Erecting, continuing, or using any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture that, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, unreasonably offensive smells, or other
annoyances, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort, or property
of individuals or the public.
   2.   Filth or Noisome Substance. Causing or suffering any offal, filth, or
noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place to the prejudice of
others.
   3.   Impeding Passage of Navigable River. Obstructing or impeding without
legal authority the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or collection of
water.
   4.   Water Pollution. Corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the
water of any river, stream, or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from its
natural course or state, to the injury or prejudice of others.
   5.   Blocking Public and Private Ways. Obstructing or encumbering, by
fences, buildings or otherwise, the public roads, private ways, streets,
alleys, commons, landing places, or burying grounds.
   6.   Billboards. Billboards, signboards, and advertising signs, whether
erected and constructed on public or private property, that so obstruct and
impair the view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway,
boulevard or alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render
dangerous the use thereof. (See also Section
62.06) 
   7.   Storing of Flammable Junk. Depositing or storing of flammable junk,
such as old rags, rope, cordage, rubber, bones and paper, by dealers in such
articles within the fire limits of the City, unless in a building of fireproof
construction. (See also
Chapter 51) 
   8.   Air Pollution. Emission of dense smoke, noxious fumes, or fly ash.
   9.   Weeds, Brush. Dense growth of all weeds, vines, brush, or other
vegetation in the City so as to constitute a health, safety, or fire hazard.
   10.   Dutch Elm Disease. Trees infected with Dutch elm disease. (See also
Chapter 151)
   11.   Airport Air Space. Any object or structure hereafter erected within
1,000 feet of the limits of any municipal or regularly established airport or
landing place, which may endanger or obstruct aerial navigation including take-
off and landing, unless such object or structure constitutes a proper use or
enjoyment of the land on which the same is located.
   12.   Houses of Ill Fame. Houses of ill fame, kept for the purpose of
prostitution and lewdness; gambling houses; places resorted to by persons
participating in criminal gang activity prohibited by Chapter 723A of the Code
of Iowa or places resorted to by persons using controlled substances, as
defined in Section 124.101 of the Code of Iowa, in violation of law, or houses
where drunkenness, quarreling, fighting or breaches of the peace are carried on
or permitted to the disturbance of others.
50.03   OTHER CONDITIONS.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other conditions that are deemed to be nuisances:
   1.   Junk and Junk Vehicles (See
Chapter 51)
   2.   Dangerous Buildings (See
Chapter 145)
   3.   Storage and Disposal of Solid Waste (See
Chapter 105)
   4.   Trees (See
Chapter 151)
   5.   Construction and Repair of Buildings (See
Chapter 165)
50.04   NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited, and a nuisance, public
or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in this chapter or State
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.3)
50.05   NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
Whenever any authorized municipal officer finds that a nuisance exists, such
officer has the authority to determine on a case-by-case basis whether to
utilize the nuisance abatement procedure described in Section
50.06 of this chapter or the municipal infraction procedure referred to in
Section
50.07. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
50.06   ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY WRITTEN NOTICE.
Any nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in
this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   1.   Contents of Notice to Property Owner. The notice to abate shall
contain: † 3   
      A.   Description of Nuisance. A description of what constitutes the
nuisance.
      B.   Location of Nuisance. The location of the nuisance.
      C.   Acts Necessary to Abate. A statement of the act or acts necessary to
abate the nuisance.
      D.   Reasonable Time. A reasonable time within which to complete the
abatement.
      E.   Assessment of City Costs. A statement that if the nuisance or
condition is not abated as directed and no request for hearing is made within
the time prescribed, the City will abate it and assess the costs against the
property owner.
   2.   Method of Service. The notice may be in the form of an ordinance or
sent by certified mail to the property owner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   3.   Request for Hearing. Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a
hearing with the Council as to whether a nuisance exists. A request for a
hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the Clerk within the time
stated in the notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that a nuisance
exists and it must be abated as ordered. The hearing will be before the Council
at a time and place fixed by the Council. The findings of the Council shall be
conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered abated
within a reasonable time under the circumstances.
   4.   Abatement in Emergency. If it is determined that an emergency exists by
reason of the continuing maintenance of the nuisance or condition, the City may
perform any action that may be required under this chapter without prior
notice. The City shall assess the costs as provided in Subsection 6 of this
section after notice to the property owner under the applicable provisions of
Subsection 1 and 2, and the hearing as provided in Subsection 3.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   5.   Abatement by City. If the person notified to abate a nuisance or
condition neglects or fails to abate as directed, the City may perform the
required action to abate, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred.
The itemized expense account shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall pay such
expenses on behalf of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   6.   Collection of Costs. The Clerk shall send a statement of the total
expense incurred by certified mail to the property owner who has failed to
abide by the notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has not
been paid within one month, the Clerk shall certify the costs to the County
Treasurer and such costs shall then be collected with, and in the same manner
as, general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   7.   Installment Payment of Cost of Abatement. If the amount expended to
abate the nuisance or condition exceeds $500.00, the City may permit the
assessment to be paid in up to 10 annual installments, to be paid in the same
manner and with the same interest rates provided for assessments against
benefited property under State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.13)
   8.   Failure to Abate. Any person causing or maintaining a nuisance who
shall fail or refuse to abate or remove the same within the reasonable time
required and specified in the notice to abate is in violation of this Code of
Ordinances.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: A suggested form of notice for the abatement of nuisances is
  included in the Appendix of this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use
  of this administrative abatement procedure, particularly where cost of abatement
3 is more than minimal or where there is doubt as to whether or not a nuisance does
  in fact exist. If compliance is not secured following notice and hearings, we
  recommend you review the situation with your attorney before proceeding with
  abatement and assessment of costs. Your attorney may recommend proceedings in
  court under Chapter 657 of the Code of Iowa rather than this procedure.
50.07   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
In lieu of the abatement procedures set forth in Section
50.06, the requirements of this chapter may be enforced under the procedures
applicable to municipal infractions as set forth in
Chapter 4 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 51
NUISANCE VEHICLES
 
51.01 Definitions                       51.05 Abatement
51.02 Nuisance Vehicles Prohibited      51.06 Exceptions
51.03 Notice to Abate                   51.07 Fencing Requirements
51.04 Duty of Owner to Remove or Repair 51.08 Interference with Enforcement
 
51.01 DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined as follows:
   1.   “Nuisance vehicle” means any licensed or unlicensed vehicle stored
within the corporate limits of the City exhibiting any one of the following
characteristics:
      A.   Broken Glass. Any vehicle with a broken or cracked windshield,
window, headlight or tail light, or any other cracked or broken glass.
      B.   Broken or Loose Part. Any vehicle with a broken or loose fender,
door, bumper, hood, hood ornament, door handle, window handle, running board,
steering wheel, truck top, trunk handle, radio aerial, tail pipe or decorative
piece.
      C.   Habitat for Nuisance Animals or Insects. Any vehicle which has
become the habitat for rats, mice, or snakes, or any other vermin or insects.
      D.   Flammable Fuel. Any unlicensed vehicle which contains gasoline or
any other flammable fuel.
      E.   Inoperable. Any vehicle lacking an engine, wheel(s), or any other
part which renders it inoperable or not fit for legal street use.
      F.   Unattended. Any vehicle left unattended up on blocks, jacks, or
elevated in any other way which constitutes a threat to the public health or
safety.
      G.   Storage. Any vehicle used as storage for items such as rags, rope,
batteries, paper, trash bags, machinery, mechanical parts, scrap household
goods, dead plant material or any similar material.
   2.   “Property” means either private or public real property within the
City.
   3.   “Unlicensed” means any vehicle which is not displaying a valid current
license plate as required by the laws of the State.
   4.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which a person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway or street, excepting devices
moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and
includes without limitation a motor vehicle, automobile, truck, motorcycle,
tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery, or any combination thereof.
51.02    NUISANCE VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
Except as otherwise provided in this Code of Ordinances, it is hereby declared
that the existence within the corporate limits of a nuisance vehicle (upon
either public or private property) is unreasonably offensive to the senses and
a threat to the health and safety of the citizens and constitutes a nuisance.
If any nuisance vehicle is stored upon private or public property in violation
hereof, the owner of said vehicle shall be liable for a municipal infraction.
51.03    NOTICE TO ABATE.
Whenever a nuisance vehicle is placed or stored within the City in violation of
the foregoing, the Police Chief or other designated member of the Police
Department shall notify by certified mail: (a) the owner of the property upon
which said vehicle is located; (b) the last known registered owner of the
vehicle (if different than the owner of the property); and (c) any lienholders
against the vehicle at the last known address that:
   1.   The vehicle constitutes a nuisance under the provision of this chapter.
   2.   Within thirty 30 days from the date of the Notice, the owner must
remove or repair the said vehicle in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
51.04    DUTY OF OWNER TO REMOVE OR REPAIR.
The owner of a nuisance vehicle shall within 30 days after said Notice is
given, remove the nuisance vehicle to one of the areas designated in Section
51.06 of this chapter, or repair the defects which cause said vehicle to be in
violation of the provisions of this chapter, including licensing of the
vehicle.
51.05    ABATEMENT.
If such owner of a nuisance vehicle fails to remove or repair the vehicle in
accordance with the terms of this chapter, the City may either: (i) abate such
nuisance by causing the vehicle to be removed and impounded and sold or
disposed of as specified in Section 321.89-90 of the Code of Iowa (with the
costs thereof charged to the owner of the vehicle); or (ii) pursue legal action
against the owner for a municipal infraction.
51.06    EXCEPTIONS.
This chapter does not apply to the following:
   1.   A nuisance vehicle kept in an enclosed building.
   2.   A nuisance vehicle on the premises of a junk yard or automobile sales
or repair shop which is lawfully operated in a zoned district under the
provisions of the Zoning Ordinance; provided, said vehicle is fenced as
required by Section
51.07 of this chapter.
51.07    FENCING REQUIREMENTS.
As required under this chapter, the property owner shall erect a suitable and
substantial fence of not less than six feet high surrounding the enclosed area
properly screened from public view. Such fence shall be kept in a state of good
repair and no signs or other advertising matter shall be placed thereon.
Nuisance vehicles and machinery stored behind such fence shall not exceed the
height of the fence. In addition, such fences shall be constructed in
accordance with all applicable requirements of the Zoning Ordinance of the
City. This section shall not apply to junk yards, salvage yards, and automobile
repair shops that repair or remove the nuisance vehicle or machinery within 30
days of accepting same.
51.08    INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT.
Any person who interferes in any way with the enforcement provision of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a simple misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 55
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND CONTROL
 
55.01 Definitions                        55.08 Animals Disturbing the Peace
55.02 Animal Neglect                     55.09 Requirements in Case of Animal
                                         Bite
55.03 Abandonment                        55.10 Seizure, Impoundment and
                                         Disposition
55.04 Injuries to Animals                55.11 Prohibition on Trapping
55.05 Running at Large                   55.12 Animal Waste
55.06 Prohibited Animals                 55.13 Licensed Required
55.07 Special Provisions for Potentially
Dangerous Dogs
 
55.01 DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
   1.   “Animal” means all living creatures not human.
   2.   “At large” means off the premises of the owner, or upon the public
streets, alleys, sidewalks, public grounds, school grounds or parks within the
City. An animal shall not be deemed to be at large if:
      A.   The animal is on the premises of the owner, or the premises of a
person given charge of the animal by the owner, and is restrained on those
premises by an adequate protective fence or leash, cord, chain or other similar
restraint of sufficient strength to restrain the animal and that does not allow
the animal to go beyond the owner's real property line or onto the sidewalk; or
      B.   On public property but restrained by a leash held by a person
capable of restraining the animal.
   3.   “Dangerous animal” means (a) any animal of a wild nature or
disposition, and which is capable of killing, inflicting serious injury upon,
or causing disease among human beings or domestic animals and having known
tendencies as a species to do so; (b) any animals declared to be dangerous by
the City Council; (c) any animal that attacks a pet or human without
provocation; (d) the following shall be deemed to be a dangerous animal per se:
      A.   Lions, tigers, jaguars, leopards, cougars, lynx and bobcats;
      B.   Wolves, coyotes and foxes;
      C.   Badgers, wolverines, weasels, skunk and mink;
      D.   Raccoons; opossums;
      E.   Bears;
      F.   Monkey and chimpanzees;
      G.   Bats;
      H.   Alligators and crocodiles;
      I.   Scorpions;
      J.   Snakes that are venomous or constrictors;
      K.   Gila monsters;
      L.   Bees.
   4.   “Leash” means a cord, chain, or similar restraint not more than six
feet in length and of sufficient strength to restrain the animal, that is at
all times under the control of a person competent to restrain and control the
animal.
   5.   “Livestock” means an animal belonging to the bovine (cow), caprine
(goat), equine (horse), ovine (sheep), or porcine (swine) species, ostriches,
rheas, emus; farm deer as defined in Iowa Code 170.1; or any poultry.
   6.   “Owner” means any person in the City who owns, keeps, shelters or
harbors an animal.
   7.   “Potentially dangerous dog” means any dog that exhibits signs of
aggression towards humans or pets without provocation.
   8.   “Properly confined” means secure confinement indoors, or secure
confinement outside in a locked pen, fenced yard, or structure measuring at
least 6 feet in width, 12 feet in length, and 6 feet in height, capped if there
is a dog house inside or if the dog can climb the fence, with secure sides and
a concrete or wood floor, which provides proper protection from the elements
for the dog, prevents the entry of young children, and is designed to prevent
the animal from escaping. No such structure shall be located closer than 20
feet to a neighboring residential dwelling, or in a residential front yard. Any
confinement structure housing potentially dangerous dogs as of the effective
date of the ordinance codified in this chapter shall be brought into compliance
with the above standards within 60 days from said effective date; provided any
existing structures that otherwise satisfy the above requirements but are
closer than 20 feet to a neighboring residential dwelling shall be permitted,
but thereafter shall not be modified or rebuilt unless in full compliance with
the 20 foot setback requirement.
55.02    ANIMAL NEGLECT.
No person who confines or harbors any animal shall fail to supply the animal
with adequate food and water, or fail to provide adequate shelter, or torture,
torment, deprive of necessary sustenance, mutilate, overdrive, overload, beat,
or kill any such animal by any means which causes unjustified pain, distress or
suffering, whether intentionally or negligently.
55.03    ABANDONMENT.
No owner shall abandon any animal within the City limits.
55.04    INJURIES TO ANIMALS.
No person, other than a licensed veterinarian or peace officer acting within
the scope of their authority, shall kill, maim, or disfigure any animal or
administer poison to any animal, or expose any poisonous substance with the
intent that the same should be taken by any animal.
55.05    RUNNING AT LARGE.
It is unlawful for an owner to allow any dog, cat, or other pet to run at large
within the City.
55.06    PROHIBITED ANIMALS.
It is unlawful for a person to keep within the City any livestock, or any
dangerous animal; provided, this section shall not apply to the following:
   1.   The keeping of a dangerous animal for exhibition to the public by a
bona fide traveling circus, carnival, exhibit or show;
   2.   The keeping of a dangerous animal in a licensed veterinary clinic for
treatment;
   3.   Any dangerous animal under the jurisdiction of, and in the possession
of, the Iowa Department of Natural Resources.
55.07    SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS.
Except when under the control of an adult 21 years or older and on a leash no
longer than four feet in length, all potentially dangerous dogs shall be
properly confined. Any potentially dangerous dog shall also be muzzled at all
times when on public property.
55.08    ANIMALS DISTURBING THE PEACE.
It is unlawful for the owner of any animal, whether kenneled or not, to permit
such animal to disturb the peace of any person by frequent, regular or habitual
barking, howling or yelping or other noises. If the owner of the animal is not
available for contact, the Humboldt Police Department may post notice on the
residence and may impound the animal, if there have been more than two
complaints, verified by the Police Department, within the previous 30 days in
regards to said animal. An owner that has been cited for an animal disturbing
the peace more than two times in any given 30 day period may be subject to
having their animal impounded by the Humboldt Police Department.
55.09    REQUIREMENTS IN CASE OF ANIMAL BITE.
It is the duty of the owner of any dog, cat or other animal which has bitten or
attacked a person, or any person having knowledge of such bite or attack, to
report this act to local health officials and to local law enforcement
officials. It is the duty of physicians and veterinarians to report to the
local board of health the existence of any animal known or suspected to be
suffering from rabies. When the Police Department receives information that any
person has been bitten by an animal or that a dog or animal is suspected of
having rabies, it shall order the owner to confine such animal in the manner it
directs. If the owner fails to confine such animal in the manner directed, the
animal shall be apprehended and impounded without a court order, and after two
weeks the board may humanely destroy the animal. If such animal is returned to
its owner, the owner shall pay the cost of impoundment.
55.10    SEIZURE, IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION.
   1.   Any animal found in violation of any of the foregoing provisions may be
seized and impounded; or at the discretion of the peace officer, the owner of
such animal may be served a citation to appear before a proper court to answer
charges made hereunder; provided, this section shall not restrict the right of
any peace officer to destroy any animal that is chasing, maiming, or killing
any other animal, or threatening, attempting to attack or attacking any human,
and in such cases, the City shall be under no duty to attempt the capture of
any animal found in violation of this chapter or to notify the owner thereof
prior to its destruction.
   2.   All animals apprehended hereunder shall be delivered promptly to a
licensed animal shelter or veterinarian. If the identity of the owner is
ascertainable, the owner shall be notified within 48 hours after delivery.
   3.   In the case of impounded dangerous animals, the owner thereof shall be
notified to make provisions to remove such animal from the City within three
days. If removal is not completed, the City may make provisions for the removal
of the dangerous animal from the City, or may destroy the animal. All costs
associated with the impoundment, removal, or euthanasia of a dangerous animal
shall be assessed against the owner, in addition to any penalty which may be
levied under this chapter.
   4.   In the case of the impoundment of any animal, other than a dangerous
animal, the animal may be recovered by the owner upon payment of the impounding
costs, as set by resolution, provided, in the alternative, the City may elect
to pursue municipal infraction penalties against an owner. If the owner fails
to redeem an impounded animal within seven days from the date that notice is
mailed or if the owner cannot be determined, then within seven days from the
date of capture, or if an animal is impounded three separate times during any
12 month period, the animal may be disposed of in any manner or destroyed, in
the discretion of the City.
   5.   No animal may be recovered from an impoundment until the owner
establishes that all rabies vaccinations (and any other required vaccinations)
are current.
   6.   All costs of impounding shall be assessed against the owner of the
impounded animal, in addition to any penalty which may be levied.
55.11    PROHIBITION ON TRAPPING.
It is unlawful for any person to set and maintain animal traps upon public
property within the City limits at any time, unless said traps are set and
maintained by conservation or City officials for purposes of controlling
animals determined to be public hazards or nuisances. For the purposes of this
section, a trap is defined as any device designed to catch and hold by the leg
or other part of the animal, commonly known as a "jawed" or "spring trap" and
excluding box or live traps.
55.12    ANIMAL WASTE.
No owner of any dog, cat or other animal, or person having control or
responsibility therefore, shall:
   1.   Allow or permit such animal to leave waste on private property without
the consent of the owner of such property.
   2.   Allow or permit such animal to leave waste on public property,
including public right- of-way between the curb lines of public streets and
alleys.
55.13   LICENSE REQUIRED.
All dogs and cats residing in the City of Humboldt must be registered annually
with the City Clerk. Upon such registration, and receipt of veterinary records
confirming a current rabies vaccination and payment of a fee set by resolution,
a license tag will be issued and said tag must be affixed to the animal’s
collar at all times.
CHAPTER 60
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE
 
60.01 Title                          60.05 Reports of Traffic Accidents
60.02 Definitions                    60.06 Peace Officer’s Authority
60.03 Administration and Enforcement 60.07 Obedience to Peace Officers
60.04 Power to Direct Traffic
 
60.01   TITLE.
Chapters 60 through 70 of this Code of Ordinances may be known and cited as the
“Humboldt Traffic Code” (and are referred to herein as the “Traffic Code.”)
60.02   DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in the Traffic Code are defined by State law, such
definitions apply to their use in said Traffic Code and are adopted by
reference. Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, have the following
meanings:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)
   1.   “Business District” means all that territory included in the C-
1 Central Business District, as defined in the Zoning Code, except the C-
1 Zoning in West River Acres Addition to the City.
   2.   “Park” or “parking” means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   3.   “Peace officer” means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   4.   “Residence district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway not comprising a business, suburban or school district, where 40
percent or more of the frontage on such a highway for a distance of 300 feet or
more is occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings in use for
business.
   5.   “School district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway for a distance of 200 feet in either direction from a schoolhouse.
   6.   “Stand” or “standing” means the halting of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
   7.   “Stop” means when required, the complete cessation of movement.
   8.   “Stop” or “stopping” means when prohibited, any halting of a vehicle,
even momentarily, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control sign or signal.
   9.   “Suburban district” means all other parts of the City not included in
the business, school, or residence districts.
   10.   “Traffic control device” means all signs, signals, markings, and
devices not inconsistent with this chapter, lawfully placed or erected for the
purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
   11.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, street, or
alley.
60.03   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
Provisions of this Traffic Code and State law relating to motor vehicles and
law of the road are enforced by the Police Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
60.04   POWER TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
A peace officer or, in the absence of a peace officer, any officer of the Fire
Department when at the scene of a fire, is authorized to direct all traffic by
voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws. In the event of an
emergency, traffic may be directed as conditions require, notwithstanding the
provisions of the traffic laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.4 & 321.236[2])
60.05   REPORTS OF TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS.
The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident within the limits of the City
shall file a report as and when required by the Iowa Department of
Transportation. A copy of this report shall be filed with the City for the
confidential use of peace officers and shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 321.271 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.273)
60.06   PEACE OFFICER’S AUTHORITY.
A peace officer is authorized to stop a vehicle to require exhibition of the
driver’s license of the driver, to serve a summons or memorandum of traffic
violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to inspect the vehicle with
reference to size, weight, cargo, log book, bills of lading or other manifest
of employment, tires and safety equipment, or to inspect the registration
certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or permit of such
vehicle. A peace officer having probable cause to stop a vehicle may require
exhibition of the proof of financial liability coverage card issued for the
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.492)
60.07   OBEDIENCE TO PEACE OFFICERS.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control or regulate traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.229)
CHAPTER 61
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
 
61.01 Installation  61.04 Standards
61.02 Crosswalks    61.05 Compliance
61.03 Traffic Lanes
 
61.01   INSTALLATION.
The Police Chief shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic control
devices when and as required under this Traffic Code or under State law or
emergency or temporary traffic control devices for the duration of an emergency
or temporary condition as traffic conditions may require to regulate, guide or
warn traffic. The Police Chief shall keep a record of all such traffic control
devices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.02   CROSSWALKS.
The Police Chief is hereby authorized, subject to approval of the Council by
resolution, to designate and maintain crosswalks by appropriate traffic control
devices at intersections where, due to traffic conditions, there is particular
danger to pedestrians crossing the street or roadway, and at such other places
as traffic conditions require.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] & 321.255)
61.03   TRAFFIC LANES.
The Police Chief is hereby authorized to mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as traffic conditions require, consistent with this
Traffic Code. Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] & 321.255)
61.04   STANDARDS.
Traffic control devices shall comply with standards established by The Manual
of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.05   COMPLIANCE.
No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official traffic
control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, unless
at the time otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject to the exceptions
granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under Section 321.231 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
CHAPTER 62
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
 
62.01 Violation of Regulations 62.05 Quiet Zones
62.02 Play Streets Designated  62.06 Obstructing View at Intersections
62.03 Vehicles on Sidewalks    62.07 Engine Brakes and Compression Brakes
62.04 Clinging to Vehicle      62.08 Excessive Noise from Vehicles
 
62.01   VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
Any person who willfully fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order of a
peace officer or direction of a Fire Department officer during a fire, or who
fails to abide by the applicable provisions of the following Iowa statutory
laws relating to motor vehicles and the statutory law of the road is in
violation of this section. These sections of the Code of Iowa are adopted by
reference and are as follows:
   1.   Section 321.17 – Misdemeanor to violate registration provisions.
   2.   Section 321.32 – Registration card, carried and exhibited; exception.
   3.   Section 321.37 – Display of plates.
   4.   Section 321.38 – Plates, method of attaching, imitations prohibited.
   5.   Section 321.57 – Operation under special plates.
   6.   Section 321.67 – Certificate of title must be executed.
   7.   Section 321.78 – Injuring or tampering with vehicle.
   8.   Section 321.79 – Intent to injure.
   9.   Section 321.91 – Penalty for abandonment.
   10.   Section 321.98 – Operation without registration.
   11.   Section 321.99 – Fraudulent use of registration.
   12.   Section 321.104 – Penal offenses against title law.
   13.   Section 321.115 – Antique vehicles; model year plates permitted.
   14.   Section 321.174 – Operators licensed.
   15.   Section 321.174A – Operation of motor vehicles with expired license.
   16.   Section 321.180 – Instruction permits.
   17.   Section 321.180B – Graduated driver’s licenses for persons aged
fourteen through seventeen.
   18.   Section 321.193 – Restricted licenses.
   19.   Section 321.194 – Special minor’s licenses.
   20.   Section 321.208A – Operation in violation of out-of-service order.
   21.   Section 321.216 – Unlawful use of license and nonoperator’s
identification card.
   22.   Section 321.216B – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain alcohol.
   23.   Section 321.216C – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain cigarettes or tobacco
products.
   24.   Section 321.218 – Operating without valid driver’s license or when
disqualified.
   25.   Section 321.219 – Permitting unauthorized minor to drive.
   26.   Section 321.220 – Permitting unauthorized person to drive.
   27.   Section 321.221 – Employing unlicensed chauffeur.
   28.   Section 321.222 – Renting motor vehicle to another.
   29.   Section 321.223 – License inspected.
   30.   Section 321.224 – Record kept.
   31.   Section 321.232 – Speed detection jamming devices; penalty.
   32.   Section 321.234A – All-terrain vehicles.
   33.   Section 321.235A – Electric personal assistive mobility devices.
   34.   Section 321.247 – Golf cart operation on City streets.
   35.   Section 321.257 – Official traffic control signal.
   36.   Section 321.259 – Unauthorized signs, signals or markings.
   37.   Section 321.260 – Interference with devices, signs or signals;
unlawful possession.
   38.   Section 321.262 – Leaving scene of traffic accident prohibited;
vehicle damage only; removal of vehicles.
   39.   Section 321.263 – Information and aid.
   40.   Section 321.264 – Striking unattended vehicle.
   41.   Section 321.265 – Striking fixtures upon a highway.
   42.   Section 321.266 – Reporting accidents.
   43.   Section 321.275 – Operation of motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
   44.   Section 321.276 – Use of electronic communication device while
driving; text-messaging.
   45.   Section 321.277 – Reckless driving.
   46.   Section 321.277A – Careless driving.
   47.   Section 321.278 – Drag racing prohibited.
   48.   Section 321.281 – Actions against bicyclists.
   49.   Section 321.284 – Open container; drivers.
   50.   Section 321.284A – Open container; passengers.
   51.   Section 321.288 – Control of vehicle; reduced speed.
   52.   Section 321.295 – Limitation on bridge or elevated structures.
   53.   Section 321.297 – Driving on right-hand side of roadways; exceptions.
   54.   Section 321.298 – Meeting and turning to right.
   55.   Section 321.299 – Overtaking a vehicle.
   56.   Section 321.302 – Overtaking and passing.
   57.   Section 321.303 – Limitations on overtaking on the left.
   58.   Section 321.304 – Prohibited passing.
   59.   Section 321.306 – Roadways laned for traffic.
   60.   Section 321.307 – Following too closely.
   61.   Section 321.308 – Motor trucks and towed vehicles; distance
requirements.
   62.   Section 321.309 – Towing; convoys; drawbars.
   63.   Section 321.310 – Towing four-wheel trailers.
   64.   Section 321.312 – Turning on curve or crest of grade.
   65.   Section 321.313 – Starting parked vehicle.
   66.   Section 321.314 – When signal required.
   67.   Section 321.315 – Signal continuous.
   68.   Section 321.316 – Stopping.
   69.   Section 321.317 – Signals by hand and arm or signal device.
   70.   Section 321.318 – Method of giving hand and arm signals.
   71.   Section 321.319 – Entering intersections from different highways.
   72.   Section 321.320 – Left turns; yielding.
   73.   Section 321.321 – Entering through highways.
   74.   Section 321.322 – Vehicles entering stop or yield intersection.
   75.   Section 321.323 – Moving vehicle backward on highway.
   76.   Section 321.323A – Approaching certain stationary vehicles.
   77.   Section 321.324 – Operation on approach of emergency vehicles.
   78.   Section 321.324A – Funeral processions.
   79.   Section 321.329 – Duty of driver; pedestrians crossing or working on
highways.
   80.   Section 321.330 – Use of crosswalks.
   81.   Section 321.332 – White canes restricted to blind persons.
   82.   Section 321.333 – Duty of drivers approaching blind persons.
   83.   Section 321.340 – Driving through safety zone.
   84.   Section 321.341 – Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad
train or railroad track equipment.
   85.   Section 321.342 – Stop at certain railroad crossings; posting warning.
   86.   Section 321.343 – Certain vehicles must stop.
   87.   Section 321.344 – Heavy equipment at crossing.
   88.   Section 321.344B – Immediate safety threat; penalty.
   89.   Section 321.354 – Stopping on traveled way.
   90.   Section 321.359 – Moving other vehicle.
   91.   Section 321.362 – Unattended motor vehicle.
   92.   Section 321.363 – Obstruction to driver’s view.
   93.   Section 321.364 – Vehicles shipping food; preventing contamination by
hazardous material.
   94.   Section 321.365 – Coasting prohibited.
   95.   Section 321.367 – Following fire apparatus.
   96.   Section 321.368 – Crossing fire hose.
   97.   Section 321.369 – Putting debris on highway.
   98.   Section 321.370 – Removing injurious material.
   99.   Section 321.371 – Clearing up wrecks.
   100.   Section 321.372 – School buses.
   101.   Section 321.381 – Movement of unsafe or improperly equipped vehicles.
   102.   Section 321.381A – Operation of low-speed vehicles.
   103.   Section 321.382 – Upgrade pulls; minimum speed.
   104.   Section 321.383 – Exceptions; slow vehicles identified.
   105.   Section 321.384 – When lighted lamps required.
   106.   Section 321.385 – Head lamps on motor vehicles.
   107.   Section 321.386 – Head lamps on motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
   108.   Section 321.387 – Rear lamps.
   109.   Section 321.388 – Illuminating plates.
   110.   Section 321.389 – Reflector requirement.
   111.   Section 321.390 – Reflector requirements.
   112.   Section 321.392 – Clearance and identification lights.
   113.   Section 321.393 – Color and mounting.
   114.   Section 321.394 – Lamp or flag on projecting load.
   115.   Section 321.395 – Lamps on parked vehicles.
   116.   Section 321.398 – Lamps on other vehicles and equipment.
   117.   Section 321.402 – Spot lamps.
   118.   Section 321.403 – Auxiliary driving lamps.
   119.   Section 321.404 – Signal lamps and signal devices.
   120.   Section 321.404A – Light-restricting devices prohibited.
   121.   Section 321.405 – Self-illumination.
   122.   Section 321.408 – Back-up lamps.
   123.   Section 321.409 – Mandatory lighting equipment.
   124.   Section 321.415 – Required usage of lighting devices.
   125.   Section 321.417 – Single-beam road-lighting equipment.
   126.   Section 321.418 – Alternate road-lighting equipment.
   127.   Section 321.419 – Number of driving lamps required or permitted.
   128.   Section 321.420 – Number of lamps lighted.
   129.   Section 321.421 – Special restrictions on lamps.
   130.   Section 321.422 – Red light in front.
   131.   Section 321.423 – Flashing lights.
   132.   Section 321.430 – Brake, hitch, and control requirements.
   133.   Section 321.431 – Performance ability.
   134.   Section 321.432 – Horns and warning devices.
   135.   Section 321.433 – Sirens, whistles, and bells prohibited.
   136.   Section 321.434 – Bicycle sirens or whistles.
   137.   Section 321.436 – Mufflers, prevention of noise.
   138.   Section 321.437 – Mirrors.
   139.   Section 321.438 – Windshields and windows.
   140.   Section 321.439 – Windshield wipers.
   141.   Section 321.440 – Restrictions as to tire equipment.
   142.   Section 321.441 – Metal tires prohibited.
   143.   Section 321.442 – Projections on wheels.
   144.   Section 321.444 – Safety glass.
   145.   Section 321.445 – Safety belts and safety harnesses; use required.
   146.   Section 321.446 – Child restraint devices.
   147.   Section 321.449 – Motor carrier safety regulations.
   148.   Section 321.449A – Rail crew transport drivers.
   149.   Section 321.449B – Texting or using a mobile telephone while
operating a commercial motor vehicle.
   150.   Section 321.450 – Hazardous materials transportation.
   151.   Section 321.454 – Width of vehicles.
   152.   Section 321.455 – Projecting loads on passenger vehicles.
   153.   Section 321.456 – Height of vehicles; permits.
   154.   Section 321.457 – Maximum length.
   155.   Section 321.458 – Loading beyond front.
   156.   Section 321.460 – Spilling loads on highways.
   157.   Section 321.461 – Trailers and towed vehicles.
   158.   Section 321.462 – Drawbars and safety chains.
   159.   Section 321.463 – Maximum gross weight.
   160.   Section 321.465 – Weighing vehicles and removal of excess.
   161.   Section 321.466 – Increased loading capacity; reregistration.
62.02   PLAY STREETS DESIGNATED.
The Police Chief shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a
play street and cause to be placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway
indicating and helping to protect the same. Whenever authorized signs are
erected indicating any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall
drive a vehicle upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of
vehicles having business or whose residences are within such closed area, and
then any said driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such
street or portion thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
62.03   VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk area except
at a driveway.
62.04   CLINGING TO VEHICLE.
No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of the City unless all
passengers of said vehicle are inside the vehicle in the place intended for
their accommodation. No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
in-line skates, sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or
herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
62.05   QUIET ZONES.
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
62.06   OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS.
It is unlawful to allow any tree, hedge, billboard, or other object to obstruct
the view of an intersection by preventing persons from having a clear view of
traffic approaching the intersection from cross streets. Any such obstruction
is deemed a nuisance and in addition to the standard penalty may be abated in
the manner provided by
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
62.07    ENGINE BRAKES AND COMPRESSION BRAKES.
Except in the case of an emergency, it is unlawful for the driver of any
vehicle to use or operate or cause to be used or operated within the City any
engine brake, compression brake or mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in
the braking or deceleration of any vehicle. The civil penalty for a violation
of this shall be:
First Offense         $ 50.00
Second Offense         $100.00
Third Offense         $150.00
More than three offenses   $750.00 per violation
62.08    EXCESSIVE NOISE FROM VEHICLES.
The purpose of this section is to regulate the operation of motor vehicles in
order to prevent excessive noise or excessive fumes occasioned by the operation
of motor vehicles within the City and to require motor vehicles operated in the
City to have proper equipment, designed to prevent excessive noise created by
the operation of said motor vehicles and to declare the creating of excessive
noise by the operation of motor vehicles to be a nuisance; and to prohibit the
operation of said vehicles to the disturbance of the public peace.
   1.   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
apply:
      A.   “ATV & UTVs” as defined in 78.02 of this Code of Ordinances.
      B.   “Baffles” or “baffle tubes” are those internal parts of a muffler of
a nonporous rigid material which impede the flow of exhaust from the point of
entry of a muffler to the rearmost point of said muffler.
      C.   “Cut-outs” or “dumps” or “lake pipes” are cylindrical tubes or
enclosed conveyances designed to eliminate any portion of an exhaust system
which is deemed to include an exhaust pipe, muffler and tail pipe but not
limited thereto, said devices being either fully, partially or intermittently
operational.
      D.   “Engine block” means that single part of an internal combustion
engine to which an exhaust manifold, as that term is normally used, would be
attached.
      E.   “Excessive noise” means a sound which is loud, raucous, irritating,
annoying and unreasonable and which exceeds the usual, normal, appropriate and
regular sounds.
      F.   “Extension” means any flared, bell shaped or bellows shaped device
which is attached, affixed or welded to the rear most point of a tail pipe.
      G.   “Exhaust” means those gases, fumes, chemical or physical parts which
are the result of an operation of the ignition stroke of an internal combustion
engine.
      H.   “Exhaust pipe” means that part of the means of enclosed conveyance
designed to carry from the lower extremity of an exhaust manifold to the entry
point of a muffler.
      I.   “Exhaust system” means all parts of a motor vehicle through which
the exhaust passes after leaving the engine block.
      J.   “Glasspacks” or “glaspacks” or “fiberglass packed mufflers” are
those mufflers whose muffling or baffling function is comprised in whole or in
part of fiberglass, spun glass, steel wool or any non-rigid, porous, readily
malleable material.
      K.   “Headers” are the result of an alteration of an exhaust manifold of
an internal combustion engine of eight cylinders or less that cause two or more
means of exit of exhaust.
      L.   “Motor vehicle” means every vehicle which is propelled by an
internal combustion engine riding on one or more round wheels, designed to be
capable of operating on any street, alley, right-of-way or public access within
the City.
      M.   “Muffler” means a device consisting of a series of baffle plates or
chambers or perforated tube or tubes with spun glass, spun steel, steel wool or
other type of sandwich packing or other mechanical design or construction for
the purpose of receiving exhaust and or exhaust gases and effectively reducing
exhaust noise from the motor of a motor vehicle.
      N.   “Smoke” means any emission of fumes or exhaust which can be readily
observed by an individual of normal eyesight or corrected normal eyesight
during the hours of daylight.
      O.   “Snuff-er nots” or “snuff-nuts” are devices consisting of circular,
oblong, rectangular, square flat metal parts which are affixed at any point in
the exhaust system for the purpose of impeding exhaust or decreasing noise,
being affixed at one or more points in a round pipe or cylindrical pipe which
allow them to swivel or be swiveled or be set in fixed position.
      P.   “Straight pipes” are exhaust systems which include any one or more
of the following: exhaust pipes, muffler, baffler or baffle tube or tail pipe.
      Q.   “Tail pipe” means a pipe or tubing or any cylindrical enclosed
device to convey exhaust from the rearmost point of a muffler a point behind
the rearmost wheel and to the outer edge of the motor vehicle.
   2.   Nuisance. It is hereby declared that the operation of a motor vehicle
within the corporate limits of the City, which creates excessive noise or
creates fumes by reason of not having an exhaust system or muffler as specified
in this section or having devices specifically prohibited by this section to be
a nuisance. It is further declared that the operation of a motor vehicle in a
manner that causes the tires of said motor vehicle to emit excessive noise is a
nuisance. It is further declared that the sounding of a horn, whistle or bell
upon a motor vehicle between the hours of sunset and sunrise other than as
required by the statutes of the State is a nuisance.
   3.   Exhaust System and Muffler. No person shall operate a motor vehicle and
no owner of a motor vehicle shall permit or allow the operation of a motor
vehicle on a street, roadway, alley or highway within the City unless such
motor vehicle meets the following standards:
      A.   Any motor vehicle operated in the City shall be equipped with an
exhaust system in good working order and in constant operation to prevent
excessive noise or annoying or prohibited fumes or smoke. Any exhaust system
shall be deemed defective and prohibited by this section if any changes,
modifications, alterations, deletions, adjustments or deterioration have been
made or permitted which would, as a result of said changes, modifications,
alterations, deletions, adjustment or deterioration, cause such exhaust system
to generate a higher or louder sound level which is excessive noise, than was
generated by said system prior to said changes, modifications, alterations,
deletions, adjustment or deterioration.
      B.   No motor vehicle shall be operated in the City which is equipped
with an exhaust system which has a cut-out, lake pipes or dump, snuff-er nots
(snuff-nuts), straight pipes or extensions.
      C.   No motor vehicle shall be operated in the City which is equipped
with headers which create excessive noise.
      D.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle in the City unless said
motor vehicle has in its exhaust system a muffler.
      E.   No motor vehicle shall be operated in the City equipped with a
muffler from which the baffler plates, baffle tubes, screens, packing, lining
or other original internal or external parts have been removed and have not
been replaced.
      F.   No motor vehicle shall be operated in the City equipped with an
exhaust system which, upon acceleration or deceleration of the speed of said
motor vehicle, with or without the drive chain engaged, emits or produces a
popping or crackling sound or creates excessive smoke.
      G.   No motor vehicle shall be operated in the City unless said vehicle
is equipped with a tail pipe as defined in this section. This subsection does
not apply to semi-motor trucks and tandem trucks.
      H.   No motor vehicle shall be operated in the City equipped with an
exhaust system which consists in whole or in part of any moveable, non-rigid
fibrous or metal outer coverings.
      I.   No motor vehicle shall be operated in the City equipped with an
exhaust system which has installed in said system any device designed to ignite
exhaust gases as to produce flame within or without the exhaust system.
      J.   No motor vehicle shall be operated in the City by any person in any
manner or by any method whereby the operation of said motor vehicle will create
or cause the motor vehicle or any of its component parts to create excessive
noise.
      K.   No motor vehicle shall be operated in a manner or method as to emit
excessive sounds, the same to include the use of the horn, whistle or bell
thereon between the hours of sunset and sunrise, except as required by the
statutes of the State, to the disturbance of the public peace and quiet, and
the unnecessary and unrequired use of the horn or other audible signaling
device between said hours and constituting disturbance of the peace.
   4.   Repair. Any exhaust system or muffler which does not meet the
requirements enumerated in this section shall be repaired or replaced to
restore said exhaust system or muffler to meet the requirements of this section
within five days of the date of discovery of said defect. Failure to replace or
restore said exhaust system or muffler to meet the requirements of this section
within the said five-day period shall constitute a separate violation of this
section.
   5.   Tires. No person shall operate a motor vehicle and no owner of a motor
vehicle shall permit or allow the operation of a motor vehicle in such a manner
or by such a method as to cause the tires on said motor vehicle to make any
loud, raucous, squealing, screeching noise or other sounds caused by excessive
acceleration from a stopped position or while a vehicle is in motion, or by
deceleration while the vehicle is in motion. This subsection does not apply to
any noise or sounds caused by the tires of motor vehicles when the vehicle is
engaged in an emergency situation where it is necessary to accelerate or stop
the vehicle immediately or suddenly in order to avoid contact with another
vehicle or with a pedestrian, as long as the emergency situation is not that of
the owner’s making.
   6.   Exemptions. This section does not apply to authorized police, fire and
emergency vehicles and special mobile equipment, licensed and authorized by the
State as such special mobile equipment.
   7.   Repeated Offenses. Each offense or violation of this section shall be
deemed a separate and distinct offense.
   8.   Maximum Allowable Noise Sound Pressure Levels For Motor Vehicles. The
sound emissions by a motor vehicle operated within the City shall be measured
in accordance herewith and shall not exceed the levels hereinafter specified:
MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE NOISE SOUND PRESSURE LEVELS FOR MOTOR VEHICLES
 
                                                                               Maximum   Minimum
                                                                               Allowable Measurement
Type of Vehicle                                                                Sound     Distance
                                                                               Pressure  From Motor
                                                                               Level     Vehicle
Motor vehicles weighing 10,000 pounds or less Manufacturer’s Gross Vehicle   80 dB(A)  25 feet
Weight
Motor vehicles weighing more than 10,000 pounds Manufacturer’s Gross Vehicle 88 dB(A)  26 feet
Weight
 
This subsection applies to the total noise from a motor vehicle and shall not
be construed as limiting or precluding the enforcement of any other provisions
of this chapter relating to motor vehicle mufflers for noise control or
violations of this section.
   9.   Noise Abatement Equipment Modifications.
      A.   No person shall modify the exhaust system of a motor vehicle or any
other noise abatement device of a motor vehicle operated upon the streets and
highways of the City in a manner that the noise emitted by the motor vehicle is
above that emitted by the vehicle as originally manufactured. Muffler cutouts,
bypasses, or other devices which increase sound emitted shall be considered a
violation of this section.
      B.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon the streets and
highways with an exhaust system or noise abatement device so modified.
   10.   Exemptions. The following are exempt from the provisions of this
section:
      A.   Noise caused in the performance of emergency work for the immediate
safety, health or welfare of the community or individuals of the community or
to restore property to a safe condition following a public calamity;
      B.   Construction equipment, street maintenance equipment, and public
health and safety equipment.
   11.   Noise Sound Pressure Level Measurement. For the purpose of determining
noise sound pressure levels as set forth in Subsection 8 of this section, the
following test procedures and measurements are applicable:
      A.   The instrumentation for determining noise sound pressure levels
shall be with a sound level meter of standard design as defined in this
section. The sound pressure level measurement shall be made with the “A”
weighing network.
      B.   Sound pressure levels shall be measured at a linear distance of at
least 25 feet from the near side of the nearest traffic lane being monitored
and at an elevation of at least four feet above the immediate surrounding
surface.
      C.   Noise from a motor vehicle which is located other than within the
public right-of-way shall be measured at a distance of at least twenty-five
feet from said motor vehicle and at a height of at least four feet above the
immediate surrounding surface.
      D.   Whenever a peace officer arrests an operator of a motor vehicle in
violation of Subsection 8, said officer may order the operator thereof to
transport said vehicle to an appropriate testing location for evaluation.
CHAPTER 63
SPEED REGULATIONS
 
63.01 General                             63.04 Special Speed Zones
63.02 State Code Speed Limits             63.05 Minimum Speed
63.03 Parks, Cemeteries, and Parking Lots
 
63.01   GENERAL.
Every driver of a motor vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a careful
and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and proper,
having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and of any
other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle on any
street at a speed greater than will permit said driver to bring it to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right to
assume, however, that all persons using said street will observe the law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.285)
63.02   STATE CODE SPEED LIMITS.
The following speed limits are established in Section 321.285 of the Code of
Iowa and any speed in excess thereof is unlawful unless specifically designated
otherwise in this chapter as a special speed zone.
   1.   Business District – 20 miles per hour.
   2.   Residence or School District – 25 miles per hour.
   3.   Suburban District – 45 miles per hour.
63.03   PARKS, CEMETERIES, AND PARKING LOTS.
A speed in excess of 15 miles per hour in any public park, cemetery, or parking
lot, unless specifically designated otherwise in this chapter, is unlawful.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[5])
63.04   SPECIAL SPEED ZONES.
In accordance with requirements of the Iowa Department of Transportation, or
whenever the Council shall determine upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that any speed limit listed in Section
63.02 is greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found
to exist at any intersection or other place or upon any part of the City street
system, the Council shall determine and adopt by ordinance such higher or lower
speed limit as it deems reasonable and safe at such location. The following
special speed zones have been established:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.290)
   1.   Special 25 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 25 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   Sixteenth Avenue North, from North Thirteenth Street to Eleventh
Street North;
      B.   Eleventh Street North from Sixteenth Avenue North to Twelfth Avenue
North;
      C.   Twelfth Avenue North from Thirteenth Street North to Eleventh Street
North;
      D.   Frontage road paralleling Thirteenth Street North from Twelfth
Avenue North to Sixteenth Avenue North.
   2.   Special 35 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 35 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   Iowa Highway No. 3 from Station 587+70 to Station 572+87;
      B.   Sixteenth Avenue North from U.S. Highway 169 to west corporate
limit.
   3.   Special 40 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 40 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   U. S. Highway No. 169 from Station 266+95 to Station 328+72.
   4.   Special 55 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 55 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   U.S. Highway No. 169 from south corporate limit to Station 266+95;
      B.   U.S. Highway No. 169 from Station 328+72 to Station 343+19.4;
      C.   Iowa Highway No. 3 from east corporate limit to Station 587+70;
      D.   Iowa Highway No. 3 from west corporate limit to Station 572+87.
63.05   MINIMUM SPEED.
A person shall not drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation, or in compliance with law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.294)
CHAPTER 64
TURNING REGULATIONS
 
64.01 Turning at Intersections 64.03 Right Turn Lanes
64.02 U-Turns                  64.04 Left Turn for Parking
 
64.01   TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.311)
   1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   2.   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right
half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to depart from the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
   3.   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street
shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection. A left turn from a one-way street into a two-way
street shall be made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street
being entered upon leaving the intersection.
The Police Chief may cause markers, buttons or signs to be placed within or
adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct, as traffic conditions
require, that a different course from that specified above be traveled by
vehicles turning at intersections, and when markers, buttons or signs are so
placed, no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other
than as directed and required by such markers, buttons or signs.
64.02   U-TURNS.
It is unlawful for a driver to make a U-turn except at an intersection;
however, U-turns are prohibited within the business district, at the following
designated intersections and at intersections where there are automatic traffic
signals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[9])
   1.   At the intersection of Eleventh Avenue South and Taft Street South.
64.03    RIGHT TURN LANES.
No person shall proceed other than to make a right-hand turn in the right turn
lanes designated at the following intersections.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.257 [2])
   1.   Sumner Avenue Southwest at intersection with U.S. Highway 169.
   2.   Wildcat Road at intersection with U.S. Highway 169.
   3.   Third Avenue North at intersection with U.S. Highway 169.
   4.   15th Street North at intersection with U.S. Highway 3.
64.04   LEFT TURN FOR PARKING.
No person shall make a left hand turn, crossing the centerline of the street,
for the purpose of parking on said street.
CHAPTER 65
STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED
 
65.01 Through Streets             65.06 School No Traffic Zone
65.02 Stop Required               65.07 Stop Before Crossing Sidewalk
65.03 Four-Way Stop Intersections 65.08 Stop When Traffic Is Obstructed
65.04 Yield Required              65.09 Yield to Pedestrians in Crosswalks
65.05 School Stops                65.10 Official Traffic Controls
 
65.01   THROUGH STREETS.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop, unless a yield is permitted by this
chapter, before entering an intersection with the following designated through
streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   U.S. Highway No. 169, from south corporate limit to Iowa Highway No. 3;
   2.   U.S. Highway No. 169, from Iowa Highway No. 3 to north corporate limit;
   3.   Iowa Highway No. 3, from east corporate limit to Sixth Street;
   4.   Iowa Highway No. 3, from Eighth Street to U.S. Highway No. 169;
   5.   Sumner Avenue Southwest, from U.S. Highway No. 169 to Eighth Street;
   6.   Sumner Avenue, from Fifth Street to east corporate limit;
   7.   First Avenue South, from “A” Street to Fifth Street;
   8.   First Avenue South, from Fifth Street through Third Street;
   9.   Fifth Street, from Eleventh Avenue South to Sumner Avenue;
   10.   Fifth Street, from Sumner Avenue to Iowa Highway No. 3;
   11.   Third Avenue North, from U.S. Highway No. 169 to Ninth Street;
   12.   Ninth Street, from Sumner Avenue to Third Avenue North;
   13.   Sixth Avenue North, from U.S. Highway No. 169 to Fifth Street;
   14.   Sixth Avenue North, from Fifth Street to east corporate limit;
   15.   Seventh (Taft) Street South, from Ninth Avenue South to First Avenue
South;
   16.   Seventh (Taft) Street North, from First Avenue North to Sixth Avenue
North;
   17.   Seventh (Taft) Street North, from Sixth Avenue North to Eighth Avenue
North.
65.02   STOP REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Twelfth Street. Vehicles traveling on Twelfth Street shall stop at
Sixth Avenue North.
   2.   Eighth Street. Vehicles traveling on Eighth Street shall stop at First
Avenue North.
   3.   Third Avenue North. Vehicles traveling west on Third Avenue North shall
stop at Ninth Street.
   4.   Third Avenue North. Vehicles traveling west on Third Avenue North shall
stop at Fifth Street North.
   5.   Second Avenue South. Vehicles traveling west on Second Avenue South
shall stop at Seventh Street.
   6.   North Tenth Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Tenth Street
shall stop at Eleventh Avenue North.
   7.   Nineteenth Street North. Vehicles traveling on Nineteenth Street North
shall stop at Highway No. 3.
   8.   Eighth Avenue North. Vehicles traveling east on Eight Avenue North
shall stop at Fifteenth Street.
   9.   Fifth Avenue North. Vehicles traveling east on Fifth Avenue North shall
stop at Twelfth Street North.
   10.   Seventh Avenue North. Vehicles traveling east on Seventh Avenue North
shall stop at Fifth Street North.
   11.   Fourth Avenue North. Vehicles traveling east on Fourth Avenue North
shall stop at Twelfth Street North.
   12.   Fifth Street North. Vehicles traveling on Fifth Street North shall
stop at Third Avenue North.
   13.   Eighth Street North. Vehicles traveling north on Eighth Street North
shall stop at Third Avenue North.
   14.   Second Avenue North. Vehicles traveling west on Second Avenue North
shall stop at Taft Street North.
   15.   Twenty-second Street North. Vehicles traveling north on Twenty-second
Street North shall stop at Sixteenth Avenue North.
   16.   Twenty-first Street North. Vehicles traveling north on Twenty-first
Street North shall stop at Sixteenth Avenue North.
   17.   Thirteenth Avenue North. Vehicles traveling east on Thirteenth Avenue
North shall stop at Nineteenth Street North.
   18.   Second Avenue North. Vehicles traveling west on Second Avenue North
shall stop at Eighth Street North.
   19.   Tenth Street North. Vehicles traveling on Tenth Street North shall
stop at Eleventh Avenue North.
   20.   Nineteenth Street North. Vehicles traveling south on Nineteenth Street
North shall stop at Iowa Highway 3.
   21.   First Avenue North. Vehicles traveling on First Avenue North shall
stop at Second Street North.
   22.   Twelfth Avenue North. Vehicles traveling east on Twelfth Avenue North
shall stop at Nineteenth Street North.
   23.   Elizabeth Circle. Vehicles traveling south on Elizabeth Circle shall
stop at Wildcat Road.
   24.   Forest Boulevard. Vehicles traveling south on Forest Boulevard shall
stop at Wildcat Road.
   25.   First Avenue North. Vehicles traveling on First Avenue North shall
stop at Third Street North.
   26.   Third Avenue South. Vehicles traveling west on Third Avenue South
shall stop at Second Street South.
   27.   Industrial Avenue. Vehicles traveling west on Industrial Avenue shall
stop at 13th Street North (Highway 169).
   28.   Twelfth Street North. Vehicles traveling on Twelfth Street North shall
stop at 11th Avenue North.
   29.   Sumner Avenue SW. Vehicles traveling south on Sumner Avenue SW shall
stop at 13th Street SW
( Ord. 2019-03 - Oct. 20 Supp.)
   30.   13th Street SW. Vehicles traveling north on 13th Street SW shall stop
at Sumner Avenue SW.
(Ord. 2019-03 - Oct. 20 Supp.)
   31.   Forest Boulevard. Vehicles traveling north on Forest Boulevard shall
stop at Elmhurst Avenue.   
(Ord. 2023-03 – Jan. 24 Supp.)
65.03   FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the following designated
four-way stop intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Intersection of Iowa Highway No. 3 and U.S. Highway No. 169.
   2.   Intersection of First Avenue North and Seventh Street.
   3.   Intersection of First Avenue North and Sixth Street.
   4.   Intersection of First Avenue North and Fourth Street North.
   5.   Intersection of First Avenue South and Fourth Street.
   6.   Intersection of First Avenue South and Third Street.
   7.   Intersection of Sumner Avenue and Third Street and Sumner Avenue and
Fourth Street, between May 15th and September 15th during such hours as the
Humboldt Family Aquatic Center is in operation and during which times there
shall be placed within the intersection a stop sign requiring vehicular stops
from all four directions entering said intersections.
   8.   Intersection of Third Avenue North and Fourth Street North from August
through June during such days as St. Mary School is in session, one hour prior
to the school day start through one hour after the end of the school day, and
during which times there shall be placed within the intersection a “Stop” sign
requiring vehicular stops from all four directions entering said intersection.
   9.   Intersection of Fourth Avenue North and Fourth Street North from August
through June during such days as St. Mary School is in session, one hour prior
to the school day start through one hour after the end of the school day, and
during which times there shall be placed within the intersection a “Stop” sign
requiring vehicular stops from all four directions entering said intersection.
   10.   Intersection of Fourth Avenue North and Third Street North from August
through June during such days as St. Mary School is in session, one hour prior
to the school day start through one hour after the end of the school day, and
during which times there shall be placed within the intersection a “Stop” sign
requiring vehicular stops from all four directions entering said intersection.
   11.   Intersection of Wildcat Road and the east driveway from the northeast
parking lot at the Humboldt Middle School campus from August through June
during such days as the Middle School campus is in session, one hour prior to
the school day start through one hour after the end of the school day, and
during which times there shall be placed within the intersection a “Stop” sign
requiring vehicular stops from all four directions entering said intersection.
65.04   YIELD REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall yield in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Thirteenth Street S.W. Frontage Road. Vehicles traveling south on
Thirteenth Street S.W. Frontage Road shall yield at Ninth Avenue Southwest.
   2.   Thirteenth Street S.W. Frontage Road. Vehicles traveling south on
Thirteenth Street S.W. Frontage Road shall yield at Tenth Avenue Southwest.
   3.   Sumner Avenue Southwest. Vehicles traveling east on Sumner Avenue
Southwest shall yield at Thirteenth Street S.W. Frontage Road.
   4.   Fifth Avenue South. Vehicles traveling east on Fifth Avenue South shall
yield at Eighth Street.
   5.   Third Avenue North. Vehicles traveling east on Third Avenue North shall
yield at Ninth Street.
   6.   Thirteenth Street N. Frontage Road. Vehicles traveling north on
Thirteenth Street N. Frontage Road shall yield at Sixteenth Avenue North.
   7.   Thirteenth Street North. Vehicles traveling south on Thirteenth Street
North shall yield at Twelfth Avenue North.
   8.   First Avenue South. Vehicles traveling east on First Avenue South shall
yield at Second Street.
   9.   Third Avenue South. Vehicles traveling west on Third Avenue South shall
yield at Seventh Street South.
   10.   Fourth Avenue North. Vehicles traveling on Fourth Avenue North shall
yield at Ninth Street North.
   11.   Fifth Avenue North. Vehicles traveling on Fifth Avenue North shall
yield at Ninth Street North.
   12.   Seventh Avenue North. Vehicles traveling on Seventh Avenue North shall
yield at Ninth Street North.
   13.   Fourth Avenue North. Vehicles traveling west on Fourth Avenue North
shall yield at Twelfth Street North.
   14.   Eighth Avenue North. Vehicles traveling on Eighth Avenue North shall
yield at Ninth Street North.
   15.   Sixth Avenue Southwest. Vehicles traveling west on Sixth Avenue
Southwest shall yield at Thirteenth Street S.W. Frontage Road.
   16.   Thirteenth Street Southwest. Vehicles traveling north on Thirteenth
Street Southwest shall yield at Ninth Avenue Southwest.
   17.   Lewis Street. Vehicles traveling south on Lewis Street shall yield at
Sumner Avenue.
   18.   Rainbow Drive. Vehicles traveling west on Rainbow Drive shall yield at
Fifteenth Street.
   19.   Thirteenth Street N. Frontage Road N.
         Vehicles traveling south on Thirteenth Street N. Frontage Road N.
shall yield at Twelfth Avenue North.
   20.   Fifteenth Street North. Vehicles traveling north on Fifteenth Street
North shall yield at Sixteenth Avenue North.
   21.   Third Avenue North. Vehicles traveling east on Third Avenue North
shall yield at Ninth Street North.
   22.   Fifth Avenue North. Vehicles traveling west on Fifth Avenue North
shall yield at Twelfth Street North.
   23.   Seventh Avenue North. Vehicles traveling on Seventh Avenue North shall
yield at Twelfth Street North.
   24.   Eighth Avenue North. Vehicles traveling on Eighth Avenue North shall
yield at Twelfth Street North.
   25.   Eighth Avenue North. Vehicles traveling east on Eighth Avenue North
shall yield at Jerry Hatcher Road.
   26.   Nineteenth Avenue North. Vehicles traveling north on Nineteenth Avenue
North shall yield at Sixteenth Avenue North.
   27.   Third Avenue South. Vehicles traveling east on Third Avenue South
shall yield at Second Street South.
   28.   Fourth Avenue South. Vehicles traveling on Fourth Avenue South shall
yield at Taft Street South.
   29.   Eighth Avenue North. Vehicles traveling west on Eighth Avenue North
shall yield at Eighteenth Street North.
   30.   “A” Street. Vehicles traveling south on “A” Street shall yield at
First Avenue South.
   31.   Seventh Avenue North. Vehicles traveling on Seventh Avenue North shall
yield at West River Drive.
65.05   SCHOOL STOPS.
At the following school crossing zones every driver of a vehicle approaching
said zone shall bring the vehicle to a full stop at a point 10 feet from the
approach side of the crosswalk marked by an authorized school stop sign and
thereafter proceed in a careful and prudent manner until the vehicle shall have
passed through such school crossing zone.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.249)
   1.   U.S. Highway No. 169 at Fourth Avenue South;
   2.   Intersection of Third Avenue North and Fifth Street;
   3.   Intersection of Third Avenue North and Seventh Street;
   4.   Intersection of Third Avenue North and Eighth Street;
   5.   Intersection of Second Avenue North and Seventh Street;
   6.   Intersection of Second Avenue North and Sixth Street;
   7.   Intersection of Third Avenue North and Fourth Street;
   8.   Intersection of Third Avenue North and Third Street;
   9.   Intersection of Fourth Avenue North and Third Street North.
65.06   SCHOOL NO TRAFFIC ZONE.
The following streets shall be closed to through traffic from 3:15 p.m. until
3:30 p.m. (or such other half hour period following an early dismissal) on
those days when school is in session:
   1.   Taft Street between 2nd Avenue North and 3rd Avenue North.
65.07   STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK.
The driver of a vehicle emerging from a private roadway, alley, driveway, or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk
area and thereafter shall proceed into the sidewalk area only when able to do
so without danger to pedestrian traffic and shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicular traffic on the street into which the vehicle is entering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.353)
65.08   STOP WHEN TRAFFIC IS OBSTRUCTED.
Notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed, no driver
shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient
space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the
vehicle.
65.09   YIELD TO PEDESTRIANS IN CROSSWALKS.
Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver of a
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need be, to
yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk or
within any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.327)
65.10   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROLS.
Every driver shall observe and comply with the directions provided by official
traffic control signals at the following intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
   1.   Intersection of Sumner Avenue and Fifth Street;
   2.   Intersection of Sumner Avenue and Sixth Street;
   3.   Intersection of Sumner Avenue and Seventh Street;
   4.   Intersection of Sumner Avenue and Eighth Street;
   5.   Intersection of Taft Street and Iowa Highway No. 3.
CHAPTER 66
LOAD AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
 
66.01 Temporary Embargo                  66.04 Load Limits on Bridges
66.02 Permits for Excess Size and Weight 66.05 Truck Routes
66.03 Load Limits Upon Certain Streets
 
66.01   TEMPORARY EMBARGO.
If the Council declares an embargo when it appears by reason of deterioration,
rain, snow or other climatic conditions that certain streets will be seriously
damaged or destroyed by vehicles weighing in excess of an amount specified by
the signs, no such vehicles shall be operated on streets so designated by such
signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471 & 472)
66.02   PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT.
The Police Chief may, upon application and good cause being shown, issue a
special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move a
vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight or load exceeding the
maximum specified by State law or the City over those streets or bridges named
in the permit which are under the jurisdiction of the City and for which the
City is responsible for maintenance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 & 321E)
66.03   LOAD LIMITS UPON CERTAIN STREETS.
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified on such signs at
any time upon any of the following streets or parts of streets:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 & 475)
   1.   First Street North from a point 372 feet south of the center line of
Iowa Highway 3 to the center line of Sixth Avenue North.
   2.   Sixth Avenue North from a point 47 feet east of Second Street North
east to the corporate limit.
   3.   Elmhurst Avenue from the center line of Highway 169 to the center point
of Forest Boulevard.
   4.   Oak Boulevard from the center line of Highway 169 to the center point
of Elmhurst Avenue.
66.04   LOAD LIMITS ON BRIDGES.
Where it has been determined that any City bridge has a capacity less than the
maximum permitted on the streets of the City, or on the street serving the
bridge, the Police Chief may cause to be posted and maintained signs on said
bridge and at suitable distances ahead of the entrances thereof to warn drivers
of such maximum load limits. No person shall drive upon said bridge any vehicle
weighing, loaded or unloaded, in excess of such posted limit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471)
66.05   TRUCK ROUTES.
Truck route regulations are established as follows:
   1.   Truck Routes Designated. Every motor vehicle weighing five tons or
more, when loaded or empty, having no fixed terminal within the City or making
no scheduled or definite stops within the City for the purpose of loading or
unloading shall travel over or upon the following streets within the City and
none other:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
      A.   U.S. Highway No. 169 from south corporate line to north corporate
line;
      B.   Iowa Highway No. 3 from west corporate line to east corporate line;
      C.   Third Avenue North from Thirteenth Street to Ninth Street;
      D.   Ninth Street from Sumner Avenue to Third Avenue North;
      E.   Sumner Avenue from U.S. Highway 169 to east corporate line;
      F.   Second Street from Sumner Avenue to Third Avenue South;
      G.   Third Avenue South from Second Street to east corporate line;
      H.   Sixteenth Avenue North from west corporate line to east corporate
line;
      I.   Nineteenth Street North from Iowa Highway No. 3 to Sixteenth Avenue
North;
      J.   Twelfth Avenue North from Tenth Street North to U.S. Highway 169;
      K.   Eleventh Street North from Twelfth Avenue North to Sixteenth Avenue
North;
      L.   Thirteenth Street North from Twelfth Avenue North to Sixteenth
Avenue North;
   2.   Deliveries Off Truck Route. Any motor vehicle weighing five tons or
more, when loaded or empty, having a fixed terminal, making a scheduled or
definite stop within the City for the purpose of loading or unloading shall
proceed over or upon the designated routes set out in this section to the
nearest point of its scheduled or definite stop and shall proceed thereto, load
or unload, and return by the most direct route to its point of departure from
said designated route.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
   3.   Employer’s Responsibility. The owner or any other person employing or
otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle shall not require or knowingly
permit the operation of such vehicle upon a street in any manner contrary to
this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
CHAPTER 67
PEDESTRIANS
 
67.01 Walking in Street 67.03 Pedestrian Crossing
67.02 Hitchhiking       67.04 Use of Sidewalks
 
67.01   WALKING IN STREET.
Pedestrians shall at all times when walking on or along a street, walk on the
left side of the street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.326)
67.02   HITCHHIKING.
No person shall stand in the traveled portion of a street for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the driver of any private vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.331)
67.03   PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.328)
67.04   USE OF SIDEWALKS.
Where sidewalks are provided it is unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along
and upon an adjacent street.
CHAPTER 68
ONE-WAY TRAFFIC
68.01   ONE-WAY TRAFFIC REQUIRED.
Upon the following streets and alleys, vehicular traffic, other than permitted
cross traffic, shall move only in the indicated direction when appropriate
signs are in place.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[4])
   1.   Second Avenue North shall be westbound only from Sixth Street to Eighth
Street;
   2.   “A” Street shall be southbound only from Sumner Avenue to First Avenue
South;
   3.   The alley in center of Block 24, Original Town, shall be eastbound and
southbound only from South Fifth Street to First Avenue South.
CHAPTER 69
PARKING REGULATIONS
 
69.01 Park Adjacent to Curb             69.08 No Parking Zones
69.02 Parking on One-Way Streets        69.09 Truck Parking Prohibited
69.03 Angle Parking                     69.10 Parking Restricted to Compact
                                        Cars
69.04 Manner of Angle Parking           69.11 Winter Parking Restrictions
69.05 Parking for Certain Purposes      69.12 Snow Routes
Illegal
69.06 Parking Prohibited                69.13 Off-Street Parking in Residential
                                        Districts
69.07 Persons with Disabilities Parking 69.14 Parking Prohibited During Certain
                                        Hours
 
69.01   PARK ADJACENT TO CURB.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with
the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and
with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in the case of angle parking and
vehicles parked on the left-hand side of one-way streets and further excepting
delivery vehicles unloading to premises located within the Central Business
District, provided that any such delivery vehicle shall not so stop, stand or
park in one location for more than 30 minutes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.02   PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle on the left-hand side of a one-way
street other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction
of lawful traffic movement and with the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within
18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in
the case of angle parking.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.03   ANGLE PARKING.
Angle or diagonal parking is permitted only in the following locations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
   1.   First Avenue North on the south side from Fifth Street to Eighth
Street;
   2.   First Avenue South on the north side from 150 feet east of Fifth Street
to Fifth Street;
   3.   Sumner Avenue on both sides from Ninth Street to Fourth Street;
   4.   Eighth Street on the east side from First Avenue South to Sumner
Avenue;
   5.   Eighth Street on the east side from Sumner Avenue to First Avenue
North;
   6.   Seventh Street on both sides from First Avenue South to First Avenue
North;
   7.   Sixth Street on both sides from First Avenue South to First Avenue
North;
   8.   Fifth Street on both sides from First Avenue South to First Avenue
North;
   9.   Fifth Street on the east side from First Avenue South to a point 100
feet north of Sumner Avenue;
   10.   Fourth Street on the west side from Sumner Avenue to a point 100 feet
south;
   11.   Third Street on the west side from 150 feet south of Sumner Avenue to
150 feet north of Sumner Avenue;
   12.   Second Avenue North on the south side from Fourth Street to Third
Street;
   13.   Fourth Street North on the east side from First Avenue North to Second
Avenue North.
   14.   Second Avenue North on the north side from 6th Street North to a point
140 feet east of Taft Street North.
   15.   Second Avenue North on the south side from a point 205 feet west of
6th Street North to Taft Street North.
69.04   MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
Upon those streets or portions of streets that have been signed or marked for
angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at an angle
to the curb or edge of the roadway or in the center of the roadway as indicated
by such signs and markings. No part of any vehicle or the load thereon, when
said vehicle is parked within a diagonal parking district, shall extend into
the roadway more than a distance of 16 feet when measured at right angles to
the adjacent curb or edge of roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.05   PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES ILLEGAL.
No person shall park a vehicle upon public property for more than 72 hours,
unless otherwise limited under the provisions of this chapter, or for any of
the following principal purposes:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   1.   Sale. Displaying such vehicle for sale.
   2.   Repairing. For lubricating, repairing or for commercial washing of such
vehicle except such repairs as are necessitated by an emergency.
   3.   Advertising. Displaying advertising.
   4.   Merchandise Sales. Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a
duly established market place or when so authorized or licensed under this Code
of Ordinances.
69.06   PARKING PROHIBITED.
No one shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
   1.   Crosswalk. On a crosswalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[5])
   2.   Center Parkway. On the center parkway or dividing area of any divided
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   3.   Mailboxes. Within 20 feet on either side of a mailbox that is so placed
and so equipped as to permit the depositing of mail from vehicles on the
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   4.   Sidewalks. On or across a sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[1])
   5.   Driveway. In front of a public or private driveway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[2])
   6.   Intersection. Within an intersection or within 10 feet of an
intersection of any street or alley.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[3])
   7.   Fire Hydrant. Within five feet of a fire hydrant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[4])
   8.   Stop Sign or Signal. Within 10 feet upon the approach to any flashing
beacon, stop or yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[6])
   9.   Railroad Crossing. Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing, except when parked parallel with such rail and not exhibiting a red
light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[8])
   10.   Fire Station. Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within 75 feet of said entrance when properly sign posted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[9])
   11.   Excavations. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or
obstruction when such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[10])
   12.   Double Parking. On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked
at the edge or curb of a street, except for delivery vehicles unloading to
premises located within the Central Business District, provided that any such
delivery vehicle shall not so stop, stand or park in one location for more than
30 minutes and further provided that any such delivery vehicle shall
immediately move when requested by a person whose vehicle is being blocked from
access to the street by the delivery vehicle.
   13.   Hazardous Locations. When, because of restricted visibility or when
standing or parked vehicles would constitute a hazard to moving traffic, or
when other traffic conditions require, the Council may cause curbs to be
painted with a yellow color and erect no parking or standing signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[13])
   14.   Churches, Nursing Homes and Other Buildings. A space of 50 feet is
hereby reserved at the side of the street in front of any theatre, auditorium,
hotel having more than 25 sleeping rooms, hospital, nursing home, taxicab
stand, bus depot, church, or other building where large assemblages of people
are being held, within which space, when clearly marked as such, no motor
vehicle shall be left standing, parked or stopped except in taking on or
discharging passengers or freight, and then only for such length of time as is
necessary for such purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.360)
   15.   Alleys. No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than 10 feet of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person
shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property. The provisions of this
subsection do not apply to a vehicle parked in any alley that is 18 feet wide
or less, provided that said vehicle is parked to deliver goods or services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   16.   Schools. On school premises where signs have been erected giving
notice thereof and stating such prohibition or restriction.
   17.   Ramps. In front of a curb cut or ramp which is located on public or
private property in a manner which blocks access to the curb cut or ramp.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[15])
   18.   In More Than One Space. In any designated parking space so that any
part of the vehicle occupies more than one such space or protrudes beyond the
markings designating such space.
69.07   PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.
The following regulations shall apply to the establishment and use of persons
with disabilities parking spaces:
   1.   Establishment. Persons with disabilities parking spaces shall be
established and designated in accordance with Chapter 321L of the Code of Iowa
and Iowa Administrative Code, 661-18. No unauthorized person shall establish
any on-street persons with disabilities parking space without first obtaining
Council approval.
   2.   Improper Use. The following uses of a persons with disabilities parking
space, located on either public or private property, constitute improper use of
a persons with disabilities parking permit, which is a violation of this Code
of Ordinances:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321L.4[2])
      A.   Use by an operator of a vehicle not displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit.
      B.   Use by an operator of a vehicle displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit but not being used by a person issued a permit or
being transported in accordance with Section 321L.2[1b] of the Code of Iowa.
      C.   Use by a vehicle in violation of the rules adopted under Section
321L.8 of the Code of Iowa.
   3.   Wheelchair Parking Cones. No person shall use or interfere with a
wheelchair parking cone in violation of the following:
      A.   A person issued a persons with disabilities parking permit must
comply with the requirements of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa when
utilizing a wheelchair parking cone.
      B.   A person shall not interfere with a wheelchair parking cone that is
properly placed under the provisions of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa.
69.08   NO PARKING ZONES.
No one shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any of the following specifically
designated no parking zones except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the direction of a peace officer or traffic
control signal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   1.   Frontage Road east of Thirteenth Street North on both sides, from
Twelfth Avenue North to Sixteenth Avenue North;
   2.   North Eighth Street on the east side, from Second Avenue North to Third
Avenue North;
   3.   Iowa Highway No. 3 on both sides, from Fifth Street North east one-
fourth mile (1,320 feet);
   4.   Iowa Highway No. 3 on the north side, from U.S. Highway 169 west to
North Fifteenth Street;
   5.   Fifteenth Street North on both sides, from Twelfth Avenue North to
Sixteenth Avenue North.
   6.   14th Avenue SW on the south side, from U.S. Highway 169 east 508 feet.
69.09   TRUCK PARKING PROHIBITED.
Trucks with an overall length of 40 feet or more are prohibited from utilizing
street parking for periods longer than 60 minutes, except repair vehicles,
emergency vehicles and moving vans. This prohibition shall extend to all areas
of the City classified residential for zoning purposes.
69.10    PARKING RESTRICTED TO COMPACT CARS.
Parking is restricted, subject to any other regulations, to those automobiles
commonly designated as “compact cars” in the following designated areas:
   1.   North Fifth Street in the two northernmost spaces on the west side
between Sumner Avenue and First Avenue North;
   2.   North Fifth Street in the one northernmost space on the east side
between Sumner Avenue and First Avenue North.
69.11    WINTER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
No person shall park any vehicle on any street between the hours of 3:00 a.m.
and 7:00 a.m. of any day during the months of December, January, February, and
March.
69.12   SNOW ROUTES.
   1.   The Council hereby designates the following streets in the City as
“snow routes”:
“All streets within the corporate City limits, excluding Sumner Avenue from 8th
Street to 4th Street”
   2.   The above-designated streets, and any hereafter designated by the
Council, shall be marked by signs.
   3.   Whenever the Mayor or Police Chief (or their designee) determines that
current or forecasted weather conditions create the likelihood of snow, sleet,
or freezing rain likely to create hazardous road conditions, they shall
publicly declare a snow route emergency, and no person shall park or otherwise
leave any unattended vehicle on any designated snow route.
   4.   A snow route emergency declaration shall be publicly disseminated to
local print media and radio.
   5.   The above parking ban on snow routes shall begin four hours after the
designation is declared, provided, if declared after 8:00 P.M., the parking ban
shall not go into effect until 7:00 A.M. the following day. The ban shall
remain in effect for 48 hours, unless a different period is designated by the
Mayor, or until the snow route has been cleared by the City and the
precipitation has ceased.
   6.   Any person violating the snow emergency parking ban shall be subject to
a fine of $20.00 for each hour of violation, and subject to towing after 24
hours.
   7.   This section does not suspend or alter any other City parking
regulations.
69.13    OFF-STREET PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   1.   No motorized vehicle, boat, motor home, travel trailer, other trailer,
camper, recreational vehicle or semi-tractor of any kind shall be parked in a
required front yard or side yard of any lot, except on a hard surface with
direct connection to a public street. For purposes of this section, “hard
surface” means paved concrete, asphalt, brick or crushed rock free of
vegetation, but expressly excluding unpaved vegetation or soil.
   2.   No agricultural machinery, semi-trailer, commercial trailer or other
vehicle exceeding 40 feet in length shall be parked or stored in any
residential district, except emergency vehicles or moving vans.
   3.   Automotive vehicles or trailers of any kind that are inoperable or that
do not have current license plates shall not be parked or stored anywhere on a
lot other than in a completely enclosed building.
   4.   Temporary parking on non-hard surfaced areas in required front yards
may be allowed for special events as designated by the Council or as granted by
the Police Chief.
   5.   Notwithstanding any other provision above, no vehicle of any kind shall
be parked on public or private property within three feet of the curb line,
blocking any portion of the sidewalk or otherwise so as to create a safety
hazard for pedestrian or vehicular traffic. The City shall not be held liable
for any damages to vehicles parked in the parking or terrace due to the
delivery of any municipal services provided by the City or agents of the City
including but not limited to snow removal activities of the Street Department.
The following on-street parking areas located within residentially zoned
districts are hereby permitted to continue:
      A.   406 and 408 First Avenue North.
      B.   That portion of Second Avenue North adjacent to the United
Congregational Church.
      C.   That portion of Second Avenue North and Fourth Street North adjacent
to the United Methodist Church.
      D.   401 Taft Street South.
      E.   708 Third Avenue South (commercial only).
      F.   That portion of Ninth Street North adjacent to Bicknell Park.
      G.   That portion of the terrace adjacent to Blocks Six and Seven of
First College Addition (former football field).
69.14    PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS.
(Repealed by Ordinance No. 2020-06 – Jun. 22 Supp.)
CHAPTER 70
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
 
70.01 Arrest or Citation            70.04 Parking Violations: Vehicle
                                    Unattended
70.02 Scheduled Violations          70.05 Presumption in Reference to Illegal
                                    Parking
70.03 Parking Violations: Alternate 70.06 Impounding Vehicles
 
70.01   ARREST OR CITATION.
Whenever a peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provision of the Traffic Code, such officer may:
   1.   Immediate Arrest. Immediately arrest such person and take such person
before a local magistrate; or
   2.   Issue Citation. Without arresting the person, prepare in quintuplicate
a combined traffic citation and complaint as adopted by the Iowa Commissioner
of Public Safety, or issue a uniform citation and complaint utilizing a State-
approved computerized device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.6 & 321.485)
70.02   SCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.
For violations of the Traffic Code that are designated by Section 805.8A of the
Code of Iowa to be scheduled violations, the scheduled fine for each of those
violations shall be as specified in Section 805.8A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.8 & 805.8A)
70.03   PARKING VIOLATIONS: ALTERNATE.
Uncontested violations of parking restrictions imposed by this Code of
Ordinances shall be charged upon a simple notice of a fine payable at the
office of the City Clerk. The fine for each violation charged under a simple
notice of a fine shall be in the amount of $20.00 for all violations except
improper use of a persons with disabilities parking permit. If such fine is not
paid within 30 days, it shall be increased by $5.00. The fine for improper use
of a persons with disabilities parking permit is $100.00.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1b] & 321L.4[2])
70.04   PARKING VIOLATIONS: VEHICLE UNATTENDED.
When a vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the Traffic Code, and
the driver is not present, the notice of fine or citation as herein provided
shall be attached to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
70.05   PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
In any proceeding charging a standing or parking violation, a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred shall be raised by proof that:
   1.   Described Vehicle. The particular vehicle described in the information
was parked in violation of the Traffic Code; and
   2.   Registered Owner. The defendant named in the information was the
registered owner at the time in question.
70.06   IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
A peace officer is hereby authorized to remove, or cause to be removed, a
vehicle from a street, public alley, public parking lot or highway to the
nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the City, under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
   1.   Disabled Vehicle. When a vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   2.   Illegally Parked Vehicle. When any vehicle is left unattended and is so
illegally parked as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   3.   Snow Removal. When any vehicle is left parked in violation of a ban on
parking during snow removal operations.
   4.   Parked Over Limited Time Period. When any vehicle is left parked for a
continuous period in violation of any limited parking time. If the owner can be
located, the owner shall be given an opportunity to remove the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   5.   Costs. In addition to the standard penalties provided, the owner or
driver of any vehicle impounded for the violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be required to pay the reasonable cost of towing and
storage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
CHAPTER 75
SNOWMOBILES
 
75.01 Purpose                  75.05 Hours of Operation Limited
75.02 Definition               75.06 Thaw Ban
75.03 General Regulations      75.07 Negligence
75.04 Operation of Snowmobiles 75.08 Accident Reports
 
75.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of snowmobiles within
the City.
75.02   DEFINITION.
For use in this chapter “Snowmobile” means a motorized vehicle that weighs less
than 1,000 pounds, that uses sled-type runners or skis, endless belt-type tread
with a width of 48 inches or less, or any combination of runners, skis, or
tread, and is designed for travel on snow or ice. “Snowmobile” does not include
an all-terrain vehicle that has been altered or equipped with runners, skis,
belt-type tracks, or treads.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.1)
75.03   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
No person shall operate a snowmobile within the City in violation of the
provisions of Chapter 321G of the Code of Iowa or in violation of rules
established by the Natural Resource Commission of the Department of Natural
Resources governing their registration, equipment and manner of operation.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 321G & Ch. 321I)
75.04   OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES.
The operators of snowmobiles shall comply with the following restrictions as to
where snowmobiles may be operated within the City:
   1.   Streets. Snowmobiles may be operated upon streets which have not been
plowed during the snow season and on the public streets and alleys for using
the most direct roadway for the ingress to and egress from the City, but no
snowmobiles shall be driven on streets or alleys solely for entertainment or
pleasure, provided that they may not be at any time, operated on the following
streets:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4a])
      A.   Fifth Street North from Sumner Avenue to Iowa Highway No. 3;
      B.   Fifth Street South from Sumner Avenue to end of street;
      C.   First Avenue South from Second Street to Sumner Avenue SW;
      D.   Sixth Avenue North from Second Street to U.S. Highway No. 169;
      E.   Ninth Street North from Sumner Avenue to Iowa Highway No. 3;
      F.   Third Avenue North from Ninth Street North to U.S. Highway No. 169;
      G.   Sumner Avenue;
      H.   U.S. Highway No. 169;
      I.   Iowa Highway No. 3.
   2.   Exceptions. Snowmobiles may be operated on prohibited streets only
under the following circumstances:
      A.   Emergencies. Snowmobiles may be operated on any street in an
emergency during the period of time when and at locations where snow upon the
roadway renders travel by conventional motor vehicles impractical.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4c])
      B.   Direct Crossing. Snowmobiles may make a direct crossing of a
prohibited street provided all of the following occur:
         (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing;
         (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
street;
         (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all on-coming traffic that
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
         (4)   In crossing a divided street, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such street with another street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[2])
   3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on an
operating railroad right-of-way. A snowmobile may be driven directly across a
railroad right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any
other provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.13[1h])
   4.   Trails. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on all-terrain vehicle trails
except where so designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4f])
   5.   Parks and Other City Land. Snowmobiles shall not be operated in any
park, playground or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City. A snowmobile shall not be operated on any City land
without a snow cover of at least one-tenth of one inch.
   6.   Sidewalk or Parking. Snowmobiles shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking” except for
purposes of crossing the same to a public street upon which operation is
authorized by this chapter.
75.05    HOURS OF OPERATION LIMITED.
No snowmobile shall be operated in the City between the hours of 12:00 midnight
and 7:00 a.m. except for emergency situations or for loading and unloading from
a transport trailer.
75.06    THAW BAN.
Snowmobiles shall not be operated during a publicized thaw ban in areas posted
to prohibit such operation or at any time upon the streets of the City during
the period from April 1 to September 30 of each year.
75.07   NEGLIGENCE.
The owner and operator of a snowmobile are liable for any injury or damage
occasioned by the negligent operation of the snowmobile. The owner of a
snowmobile shall be liable for any such injury or damage only if the owner was
the operator of the snowmobile at the time the injury or damage occurred or if
the operator had the owner’s consent to operate the snowmobile at the time the
injury or damage occurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.18 & 321I.19)
75.08   ACCIDENT REPORTS.
Whenever a snowmobile is involved in an accident resulting in injury or death
to anyone or property damage amounting to $1,500.00 or more, either the
operator or someone acting for the operator shall immediately notify a law
enforcement officer and shall file an accident report, in accordance with State
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.10 & 321I.11)
CHAPTER 76
BICYCLE REGULATIONS
 
76.01 Scope of Regulations            76.08 Riding on Sidewalks
76.02 Traffic Code Applies            76.09 Towing
76.03 Double Riding Restricted        76.10 Improper Riding
76.04 Two Abreast Limit               76.11 Parking
76.05 Speed                           76.12 Equipment Requirements
76.06 Emerging from Alley or Driveway 76.13 Special Penalty
76.07 Carrying Articles
 
76.01   SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
These regulations shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street or
upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to
those exceptions stated herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.02   TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by the laws of the State declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or
by the Traffic Code of the City applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except
as to those provisions that by their nature can have no application. Whenever
such person dismounts from a bicycle, the person shall be subject to all
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234)
76.03   DOUBLE RIDING RESTRICTED.
A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent and
regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons
at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234[3 and 4])
76.04   TWO ABREAST LIMIT.
Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles. All bicycles ridden on the roadway shall be kept to the right and
shall be operated as near as practicable to the right-hand edge of the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.05   SPEED.
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.06   EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall,
upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk or
sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.07   CARRYING ARTICLES.
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article that
prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.08   RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
The following provisions apply to riding bicycles on sidewalks:
   1.   Business District. No person shall ride a bicycle upon any sidewalk
within the Central Business District, defined as all areas within an area zoned
C-1 Central Business District on the Official Zoning Map of the City.
   2.   Other Locations. When signs are erected on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, no person shall
disobey the signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
   3.   Yield Right-of-Way. Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.09   TOWING.
It is unlawful for any person riding a bicycle to be towed or to tow any other
vehicle upon the streets of the City unless the vehicle is manufactured for
such use.
76.10   IMPROPER RIDING.
No person shall ride a bicycle in an irregular or reckless manner such as
zigzagging, stunting, speeding, or otherwise so as to disregard the safety of
the operator or others.
76.11   PARKING.
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.12   EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
Every person riding a bicycle shall be responsible for providing and using
equipment as provided herein:
   1.   Lamps Required. Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front emitting a white light visible from a
distance of at least 300 feet to the front and with a lamp on the rear
exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 300 feet to the rear, except
that a red reflector on the rear, of a type that is visible from all distances
from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper
beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle, may be used in lieu of a rear light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.397)
   2.   Brakes Required. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake that will
enable the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean
pavement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.13   SPECIAL PENALTY.
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter may, in lieu of the
scheduled fine for bicyclists or standard penalty provided for violations of
this Code of Ordinances, allow the person’s bicycle to be impounded by the City
for not less than five days for the first offense, 10 days for a second offense
and 30 days for a third offense.
CHAPTER 77
SKATEBOARDS AND SKATES
 
77.01 Scope of Regulations 77.03 Improper Riding
77.02 Riding on Sidewalks
 
77.01 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
These regulations shall apply whenever skateboards or in-line skates are
operated upon any street or sidewalk, subject to those exceptions stated
herein.
77.02    RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
No person shall ride a skateboard or in-line skates on a sidewalk except in
accordance herewith:
   1.   Central Business District. No person shall ride a skateboard or in-line
skates upon a sidewalk within the Central Business District.
   2.   Other Locations. When signs are erected on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of skateboards or in-line skates thereon by any person,
no person shall disobey the signs.
   3.   Yield Right-of-way. Whenever any person is riding a skateboard or in-
line skates upon a sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian and shall give audible signal before overtaking and passing.
77.03    IMPROPER RIDING.
No person shall ride a skateboard or in-line skates in a reckless manner so as
to endanger the safety of the operator or others.
CHAPTER 78
GOLF CARTS, ATV/ORVs ON CITY STREETS
 
78.01 Purpose             78.06 Financial Responsibility
78.02 Definitions         78.07 Permits
78.03 Permitted Operation 78.08 Permitted Use Snow Removal
78.04 Prohibited Streets  78.09 Penalty
78.05 Restrictions
 
78.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this Chapter is to regulate the use and operation of golf carts
and ATV/ORVs on certain designated streets within the City of Humboldt pursuant
to the provisions of Iowa Code Sections 321.247 and 321I.10.
78.02   DEFINITIONS.  
For use in this Chapter the following terms are defined as follows:
   1.   “Golf cart” means a four-wheeled recreational vehicle generally used
for transportation of person(s) in the sport of golf that is either electric
powered or gas powered, with an engine displacement of less than 351 cubic
centimeters and a total dry weight of less than 800 pounds.
   2.   “All-terrain vehicle” (“ATV”) means a motorized flotation-tire vehicle
with not less than three and not more than six low pressure tires, that is
limited in engine displacement to less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and in
total dry weight to less than 1,000 pounds and that has a seat or saddle
designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering control.
   3.   “Off-road utility vehicle” (“ORV”) means a motorized vehicle with not
less than four and not more than eight non-highway tires or rubberized tracks
that has a seat that is of bucket or bench design, not intended to be straddled
by the operator, and a steering wheel or control levers for control.
78.03   PERMITTED OPERATION.
Except for those streets designated in this 78.04 and subject to the
restrictions set forth in 78.05, golf carts and ATV/ORVs may be operated upon
the streets of Humboldt by persons 18 years or older who have a valid Iowa
driver’s license.
78.04   PROHIBITED STREETS.
   1.   No golf cart or ATV/ORVs shall be operated on the following streets
within the City limits of Humboldt, Highway 169 (13th Street), Highway 3 (10th
Avenue North), 5th Street, 6th Avenue North, and Sumner Avenue between 8th and
4th Streets.
   2.   Direct Crossing. An ATV/ORV may make a direct crossing of a highway or
street provided all of the following occur:
      A.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety degrees to
the direction of the highway or street and at a place where no obstruction
prevents a quick and safe crossing.
      B.   The ATV/ORV is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the highway.
      C.   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard.
      D.   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another public street or highway.
      E.   The crossing is made from a street, roadway, or highway designated
as an all-terrain vehicle trail by a State agency, County, or City to a street,
roadway, or highway designated as an all-terrain vehicle trail by a State
agency, County, or City.
      F.   Golf carts and ATV/ORVs must yield to all on-coming traffic and
pedestrians.
78.05   RESTRICTIONS.
   1.   Golf carts or ATV/ORVs may only be operated on permitted City streets
and alleys between sunrise and sunset.
   2.   No golf cart or ATV/ORV shall be operated in the City at a speed in
excess of 25 miles per hour.
   3.   No golf cart or ATV/ORV shall be operated or parked upon public
sidewalks or trails.
   4.   No person shall operate a golf cart or ATV/ORV in a careless, reckless
or negligent manner endangering the person or property of another or causing
injury or damage to same.
   5.   No golf cart or ATV/ORV shall carry more passengers than the golf cart
or ATV/ORV has designed seating for, and all riders must remain seated.
   6.   All golf carts or ATV/ORVs operated upon City streets shall be equipped
with the following, all of which shall be in good condition and/or proper
working order:
      A.   A slow moving vehicle sign or rear tail lights;
      B.   A safety flag that is 30 square inches and displayed so the bottom
of the flag is either at least five feet in the air above the ground, or the
bottom of the flag shall be above the top of the roofline; and
      C.   Adequate brakes.
   7.   No golf cart or ATV/ORV shall be operated while under the influence of
intoxicating liquor, narcotics or habit-forming drugs.
   8.   No golf cart or ATV/ORV shall be operated on public streets or alleys
with an open container of alcohol as referred to in §321.284 of the Code of
Iowa.
78.06   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
The owner or operator of a golf cart or ATV/ORV must maintain and provide proof
of financial responsibility to the same extent as is required under Iowa Code
§321.2013 upon request by a peace officer or City official. The owner or
operator of a golf cart or ATV/ORV is liable for any injury or damage
occasioned by the negligent operation of the golf cart or ATV/ORV.
78.07   PERMITS.
No person shall operate a golf cart or ATV/ORV on any public street or alley in
the City of Humboldt, for any purpose, unless the operator possesses a permit
issued by the Humboldt City Clerk.
   1.   Golf cart or ATV/ORV owners may apply for a permit from the City Clerk
on forms provided by the City.
   2.   The Clerk shall not issue a permit until the owner/operator has
provided the following:
      A.   Evidence that the permittee is at least 18 years of age, and
possesses a valid State-issued driver’s license.
      B.   Proof of financial responsibility pursuant to Section
78.06.
      C.   That the ATV/ORV is properly registered with the State.
   3.   All permits shall be issued for a specific golf cart or ATV/ORV.
Permit holders will be issued a sticker that must be affixed to the rear of the
golf cart or ATV/ORV and be, at all times, visible to any police officer or
City official.
   4.   The fee for such permits shall be set by resolution. Permits will be
valid for one year from January 1 through December 31. Permits may be purchased
at any time during the year but will be valid only through December 31.
   5.   A permit may be suspended up to 60 days by the police department upon
finding evidence that the permit holder has violated the conditions of the
permit or has abused the privilege of being a permit holder. The permittee may
request a hearing in front of the City Council to have their permit reinstated.
There will be no refund of the permit fee in the event of a suspension.
78.08   PERMITTED USE SNOW REMOVAL.
   1.   Beginning November 1st through and including April 30th of each year, a
person 16 years or older (persons under the age of 18 must possess an ATV
safety certificate, issued by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources) may
operate an ATV equipped with a snow blade or blower for the sole purpose of
snow removal or direct travel between snow removal sites, on the public
streets, alleys, and sidewalks of the City of Humboldt, except for the
following:
      A.   Sumner Avenue
      B.   U.S. Highway 169
      C.   Iowa Highway 3
   2.   Direct Crossing as set forth in Section
78.04(2).
   3.   All ATVs operated upon a public street, alley, or sidewalk pursuant to
this section shall:
      A.   Be registered and numbered with the Humboldt County Recorder as
required by the Iowa Code and DNR regulations for the operation of ATVs on
public land;
      B.   Be equipped with proper muffling devices, headlamps, tail lamps, and
brakes;
      C.   Comply with the provisions of Iowa Code §321I.14; and
      D.   Comply with all applicable traffic laws.
78.09   PENALTY.
A violation of the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed to be a municipal
infraction, subject to a civil penalty of up to $750.00 per offense. An
offender may also be subject to prosecution under Iowa Code for any scheduled
violation. Any person who commits two violations of this Chapter within a 24
month period shall have their permit to operate a golf cart or ATV/ORV revoked,
with no chance of reissuance for a period of 12 months from the date of
revocation.
CHAPTER 80
ABANDONED VEHICLES
 
80.01 Definitions                     80.06 Disposal of Abandoned Vehicles
80.02 Authority to Take Possession of 80.07 Disposal of Totally Inoperable
Abandoned Vehicles                    Vehicles
80.03 Notice by Mail                  80.08 Proceeds from Sales
80.04 Notification in Newspaper       80.09 Duties of Demolisher
80.05 Fees for Impoundment
 
80.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[1] & Sec. 321.90)
   1.   “Abandoned vehicle” means any of the following:
      A.   A vehicle that has been left unattended on public property for more
than 24 hours and lacks current registration plates or two or more wheels or
other parts which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
      B.   A vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for more
than 24 hours.
      C.   A vehicle that has been unlawfully parked or placed on private
property without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property
for more than 24 hours.
      D.   A vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of a police
authority and has not been reclaimed for a period of 10 days. However, a police
authority may declare the vehicle abandoned within the 10-day period by
commencing the notification process.
      E.   Any vehicle parked on the highway determined by a police authority
to create a hazard to other vehicle traffic.
      F.   A vehicle that has been impounded pursuant to Section 321J.4B of the
Code of Iowa by order of the court and whose owner has not paid the impoundment
fees after notification by the person or agency responsible for carrying out
the impoundment order.
   2.   “Demolisher” means a person licensed under Chapter 321H of the Code of
Iowa whose business it is to convert a vehicle to junk, processed scrap or
scrap metal, or otherwise to wreck, or dismantle vehicles.
   3.   “Garage keeper” means any operator of a parking place or establishment,
motor vehicle storage facility, or establishment for the servicing, repair, or
maintenance of motor vehicles.
   4.   “Police authority” means the Iowa State Patrol or any law enforcement
agency of a county or city.
80.02   AUTHORITY TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
A police authority, upon the authority’s own initiative or upon the request of
any other authority having the duties of control of highways or traffic, shall
take into custody an abandoned vehicle on public property and may take into
custody any abandoned vehicle on private property. The police authority may
employ its own personnel, equipment, and facilities or hire a private entity,
equipment, and facilities for the purpose of removing, preserving, storing, or
disposing of abandoned vehicles. A property owner or other person in control of
private property may employ a private entity that is a garage keeper to dispose
of an abandoned vehicle, and the private entity may take into custody the
abandoned vehicle without a police authority’s initiative. If a police
authority employs a private entity to dispose of abandoned vehicles, the police
authority shall provide the private entity with the names and addresses of the
registered owners, all lienholders of record, and any other known claimant to
the vehicle or the personal property found in the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[2])
80.03   NOTICE BY MAIL.
The police authority or private entity that takes into custody an abandoned
vehicle shall notify, within 20 days, by certified mail, the last known
registered owner of the vehicle, all lienholders of record, and any other known
claimant to the vehicle or to personal property found in the vehicle, addressed
to the parties’ last known addresses of record, that the abandoned vehicle has
been taken into custody. Notice shall be deemed given when mailed. The notice
shall describe the year, make, model and vehicle identification number of the
vehicle, describe the personal property found in the vehicle, set forth the
location of the facility where the vehicle is being held, and inform the
persons receiving the notice of their right to reclaim the vehicle and personal
property within 10 days after the effective date of the notice upon payment of
all towing, preservation, and storage charges resulting from placing the
vehicle in custody and upon payment of the costs of the notice. The notice
shall also state that the failure of the owner, lienholders or claimants to
exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
time provided shall be deemed a waiver by the owner, lienholders and claimants
of all right, title, claim and interest in the vehicle or personal property and
that failure to reclaim the vehicle or personal property is deemed consent to
the sale of the vehicle at a public auction or disposal of the vehicle to a
demolisher and to disposal of the personal property by sale or destruction. If
the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a private entity without a
police authority’s initiative, the notice shall state that the private entity
may claim a garage keeper’s lien as described in Section 321.90 of the Code of
Iowa, and may proceed to sell or dispose of the vehicle. If the abandoned
vehicle was taken into custody by a police authority or by a private entity
hired by a police authority, the notice shall state that any person claiming
rightful possession of the vehicle or personal property who disputes the
planned disposition of the vehicle or property by the police authority or
private entity or of the assessment of fees and charges provided by this
section may ask for an evidentiary hearing before the police authority to
contest those matters. If the persons receiving notice do not ask for a hearing
or exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
10-day reclaiming period, the owner, lienholders or claimants shall no longer
have any right, title, claim, or interest in or to the vehicle or the personal
property. A court in any case in law or equity shall not recognize any right,
title, claim, or interest of the owner, lienholders or claimants after the
expiration of the 10-day reclaiming period.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.04   NOTIFICATION IN NEWSPAPER.
If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and
addresses of the last registered owner and all lienholders, notice by one
publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the area where the
vehicle was abandoned shall be sufficient to meet all requirements of notice
under Section
80.03. The published notice may contain multiple listings of abandoned vehicles
and personal property but shall be published within the same time requirements
and contain the same information as prescribed for mailed notice in Section
80.03.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3b])
80.05   FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
The owner, lienholder, or claimant shall pay all towing and storage fees as
established by the storage facility, whereupon the vehicle shall be released.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.06   DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
If an abandoned vehicle has not been reclaimed as provided herein, the police
authority or private entity shall make a determination as to whether or not the
motor vehicle should be sold for use upon the highways, and shall dispose of
the motor vehicle in accordance with State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.07   DISPOSAL OF TOTALLY INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
The City or any person upon whose property or in whose possession is found any
abandoned motor vehicle, or any person being the owner of a motor vehicle whose
title certificate is faulty, lost or destroyed, may dispose of such motor
vehicle to a demolisher for junk, without a title and without notification
procedures, if such motor vehicle lacks an engine or two or more wheels or
other structural part which renders the vehicle totally inoperable. The police
authority shall give the applicant a certificate of authority. The applicant
shall then apply to the County Treasurer for a junking certificate and shall
surrender the certificate of authority in lieu of the certificate of title.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[2e])
80.08   PROCEEDS FROM SALES.
Proceeds from the sale of any abandoned vehicle shall be applied to the expense
of auction, cost of towing, preserving, storing, and notification required, in
accordance with State law. Any balance shall be held for the owner of the motor
vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days, and then shall be deposited in the
State Road Use Tax Fund. Where the sale of any vehicle fails to realize the
amount necessary to meet costs the police authority shall apply for
reimbursement from the Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.09   DUTIES OF DEMOLISHER.
Any demolisher who purchases or otherwise acquires an abandoned motor vehicle
for junk shall junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or otherwise demolish such motor
vehicle. A demolisher shall not junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or demolish a
vehicle until the demolisher has obtained the junking certificate issued for
the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[3a])
CHAPTER 90
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
90.01 Definitions                        90.12 Responsibility for Water Service
                                         Pipe
90.02 Superintendent’s Duties          90.13 Failure to Maintain
90.03 Mandatory Connections              90.14 Curb Valve
90.04 Abandoned Connections              90.15 Interior Valve
90.05 Permit                             90.16 Inspection and Approval
90.06 Fee for Permit and Connection      90.17 Completion by the City
Charge
90.07 Compliance with Plumbing Code      90.18 Shutting Off Water Supply
90.08 Plumber Required                   90.19 Operation of Curb Valve
90.09 Excavations                        90.20 Fire Hydrants
90.10 Tapping Mains                      90.21 Irrigation Meters
90.11 Installation of Water Service Pipe 90.22 Portable Irrigation Meters
 
90.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in the chapters in this Code of
Ordinances pertaining to the Water Service System:
   1.   “Combined service account” means a customer service account for the
provision of two or more utility services.
   2.   “Customer” means, in addition to any person receiving water service
from the City, the owner of the property served, and as between such parties
the duties, responsibilities, liabilities and obligations hereinafter imposed
shall be joint and several.
   3.   “Superintendent” means the Superintendent of the City water system or
any duly authorized assistant, agent or representative.
   4.   “Water main” means a water supply pipe provided for public or community
use.
   5.   “Water service pipe” means the pipe from the water main to the building
served.
   6.   “Water system” or “water works” means all public facilities for
securing, collecting, storing, pumping, treating, and distributing water.
   7.   “Water Service Standards” means the City of Humboldt Water Service Line
Standards and Requirements.
90.02   SUPERINTENDENT’S DUTIES.
The Superintendent shall supervise the installation of water service pipes and
their connection to the water main and enforce all regulations pertaining to
water services in the City in accordance with this chapter. This chapter shall
apply to all replacements of existing water service pipes as well as to new
ones. The Superintendent shall make such rules, not in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter, as may be needed for the detailed operation of the
water system, subject to the approval of the Council. In the event of an
emergency the Superintendent may make temporary rules for the protection of the
system until due consideration by the Council may be had.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
90.03   MANDATORY CONNECTIONS.
The owners of any houses, buildings or structures used for human occupancy,
employment or use, situated within the City and abutting on any street, alley
or right-of-way in which there is located a public water main are hereby
required to connect such facilities to the City’s public water system in
accordance with the provisions of these Water Service chapters within 90 days
after the date of official notice to do so, provided that said public water
main is located within 100 feet of the property line of such owner.
90.04   ABANDONED CONNECTIONS.
When an existing water service is abandoned or a service is renewed with a new
tap in the main, all abandoned connections with the mains shall be turned off
at the corporation stop and made absolutely watertight. (See Building
Demolition
Chapter 148).
90.05   PERMIT.
Before any person makes a connection with the public water system, a written
permit must be obtained from the City. The application for the permit shall
include a legal description of the property, the name of the property owner,
the name and address of the person who will do the work, and the general uses
of the water. If the proposed work meets all the requirements of this chapter
and if all fees required under this chapter have been paid, the permit shall be
issued. Work under any permit must be completed within 60 days after the permit
is issued, except that when such time period is inequitable or unfair due to
conditions beyond the control of the person making the application, an
extension of time within which to complete the work may be granted. The permit
may be revoked at any time for any violation of these chapters.
90.06   FEE FOR PERMIT AND CONNECTION CHARGE.
Before any permit is issued the person who makes the application shall pay
$5.00 for residential customers and $15.00 for commercial customers to the
Clerk to cover the cost of issuing the permit and supervising, regulating, and
inspecting the work. In addition there shall be a connection charge in the
amount of $200.00 for three-fourths inch connection and $25.00 additional for
each one-fourth inch beyond the three-fourths paid before issuance of a permit
to reimburse the City for costs borne by the City in making water service
available to the property served.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
90.07   COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE.
The installation of any water service pipe and any connection with the water
system shall comply with all pertinent Water Service Standards and applicable
provisions, whether regulatory, procedural or enforcement provisions, of the
State Plumbing Code.
90.08   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installations of water service pipes and connections to the water system
shall be made by a State-licensed plumber.
90.09   EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required in making a connection
shall be performed in accordance with the State Plumbing Code and the
provisions of Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
90.10   TAPPING MAINS.
All taps into water mains shall be made by or under the direct supervision of
the Superintendent and in accord with the Water Service Standards.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
90.11   INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE PIPE.
Water service pipes from the main to the meter setting shall be in accord with
the Water Service Standards.
90.12   RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER SERVICE PIPE.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the water service pipe from the main to the building served
shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss
or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation or
maintenance of said water service pipe.
90.13   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
When any portion of the water service pipe which is the responsibility of the
property owner becomes defective or creates a nuisance and the owner fails to
correct such nuisance, the City may do so and assess the costs thereof to the
property. Any owner sent a certified letter due to a failure to maintain a
water service shall be charged an administrative fee per certified letter, as
set by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a & h])
90.14   CURB VALVE.
There shall be installed within the public right-of-way a water service shut-
off valve in accord with the Water Service Standards.
90.15   INTERIOR VALVE.
There shall be installed a shut-off valve on every service pipe in accord with
Water Service Standards. The shut-off valve shall be inside the building as
close to the entrance of the pipe within the building as possible and so
located that the water can be shut off conveniently. Where one service pipe
supplies more than one customer within the building, there shall be separate
valves for each such customer so that service may be shut off for one without
interfering with service to the others.
90.16   INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
All water service pipes and their connections to the water system must be
inspected and approved in writing by the Superintendent before they are
covered, and the Superintendent shall keep a record of such approvals. If the
Superintendent refuses to approve the work, the plumber or property owner must
proceed immediately to correct the work. Every person who uses or intends to
use the municipal water system shall permit the Superintendent to enter the
premises to inspect or make necessary alterations or repairs at all reasonable
hours and on proof of authority.
90.17   COMPLETION BY THE CITY.
Should any excavation be left open or only partly refilled for 24 hours after
the water service pipe is installed and connected with the water system, or
should the work be improperly done, the City shall have the right to finish or
correct the work, and the Council shall assess the costs to the property owner
or the plumber. If the plumber is assessed, the plumber must pay the costs
before receiving another permit. If the property owner is assessed, such
assessment may be collected with and in the same manner as general property
taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a & h])
90.18   SHUTTING OFF WATER SUPPLY.
The Superintendent or other duly authorized employee of the City may shut off
the supply of water to any customer because of any violation of the regulations
contained in these Water Service System chapters that is not being contested in
good faith. The supply shall not be turned on again until all violations have
been corrected and the Superintendent has ordered the water to be turned on.
90.19   OPERATION OF CURB VALVE.
It is unlawful for any person except the Superintendent, other duly authorized
employee of the City, or a plumber to turn water on at the curb valve, and said
plumber shall take no action contrary to the orders of the Superintendent and
shall leave the water off or on, as directed by the Superintendent.
90.20   FIRE HYDRANTS.
No person, unless specifically authorized by the City, shall open or attempt to
draw water from any fire hydrant for any purpose whatsoever.
90.21    IRRIGATION METERS.
Irrigation meters shall be installed by a plumber to measure water use for
irrigation of yards, gardens and other uses for which water does not discharge
into the public sewer system. The meter shall be permanently installed with a
backflow prevention system with ASSE approved double check valves. The property
owner shall bear all costs associated with the installation including meter
cost, and all fees per City code. Irrigation systems shall not be installed
within the City right-of-way. Repairs for damage caused to irrigation systems
installed in the City right-of-way shall be the property owner’s expense. The
minimum size for an irrigation meter shall be a ¾ inch meter on existing
services and one inch on new services. The Superintendent and other duly
authorized employee of the City shall be permitted to enter the premises of any
customer at a reasonable time to read, remove, change, or inspect the meter.
All irrigation meters shall be inspected by the Superintendent after
installation.
90.22   PORTABLE IRRIGATION METERS.
Portable Irrigation Meters may be available for residential use to measure the
water use for irrigation of yards, gardens, filling of pools, and other uses
for which water does not discharge into the public sewer system. A payment, set
by resolution, will be required to the City Clerk, for use of a City-supplied
portable irrigation meter. Upon returning the portable irrigation meter to the
City Clerk prior to October 31st of the year issued, a portion of the payment,
as set by resolution, shall be refunded as a credit to the utility bill and a
portion of the payment, as set by resolution shall be retained as an
administrative fee to cover the costs of administering the credit program.
Tampering with the portable irrigation meter may result in complete forfeiture
of the deposit.
CHAPTER 91
WATER METERS
 
91.01 Purpose                           91.06 Meter Costs
91.02 Water Use Metered                 91.07 Meter Repairs
91.03 Fire Sprinkler Systems; Exception 91.08 Right of Entry
91.04 Location of Meters                91.09 Meter Installation Fee
91.05 Meter Setting
 
91.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to encourage the conservation of water and
facilitate the equitable distribution of charges for water service among
customers.
91.02   WATER USE METERED.
All water furnished customers shall be measured through meters furnished by the
City and installed by the City.
91.03   FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS; EXCEPTION.
Fire sprinkler systems may be connected to water mains by direct connection
without meters under the direct supervision of the Superintendent. No other
open, unmetered connection shall be incorporated in the system, and there shall
be no valves except a main control valve at the entrance to the building which
must be sealed open.
91.04   LOCATION OF METERS.
All meters shall be so located that they are easily accessible to meter readers
and repairmen and protected from freezing.
91.05   METER SETTING.
The property owner shall provide all necessary piping and fittings for proper
setting of the meter including a valve on the discharge side of the meter.
Meter pits may be used only upon approval of the Superintendent and shall be of
a design and construction approved by the Superintendent. All meters shall be
installed in accord with the Water Service Standards.
91.06   METER COSTS.
The full cost of any meter larger than that required for a single-family
residence shall be paid to the City by the property owner or customer prior to
the installation of any such meter by the City, or, at the sole option of the
City, the property owner or customer may be required to purchase and install
such meter in accordance with requirements established by the City.
91.07   METER REPAIRS.
Whenever a water meter owned by the City is found to be out of order the
Superintendent shall have it repaired. If it is found that damage to the meter
has occurred due to the carelessness or negligence of the customer or property
owner, or the meter is not owned by the City, then the property owner shall be
liable for the cost of repairs.
91.08   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Superintendent or other duly authorized employee of the City shall be
permitted to enter the premises of any customer at any reasonable time to read,
remove, or change a meter.
91.09   METER INSTALLATION FEE.
The property owner shall pay an installation fee for each new installation of a
water meter. The purchase price of the meter will be determined by resolution
of the City Council. Such meter is to remain the property of the City.
CHAPTER 92
WATER RATES
 
92.01 Service Charges           92.06 Lien for Nonpayment
92.02 Rates for Service         92.07 Lien Exemption
92.03 Rates for Fire Protection 92.08 Lien Notice
92.04 Billing for Water Service 92.09 Customer Deposits
92.05 Service Discontinued      92.10 Temporary Vacancy
 
92.01   SERVICE CHARGES.
Each customer shall pay for water service provided by the City based upon use
of water as determined by meters provided for in
Chapter 91. Each location, building, premises or connection shall be considered
a separate and distinct customer whether owned or controlled by the same person
or not.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.02   RATES FOR SERVICE.
Water service shall be furnished at the following monthly rates within the
City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Water Base Charge               $14.46
   2.   Usage Charge:
      A.   First 5,000 gallons            $8.71/1,000 gallons
      B.   Next 5,000 gallons            $7.10/1,000 gallons
      C.   Next 10,000 gallons            $6.59/1,000 gallons
      D.   Next 9,999,999 gallons         $5.98/1,000 gallons
   3.   Rates for Irrigation Meters. All water furnished to irrigation meters
by the City of Humboldt will be metered and the following rates to each
consumer not including any applicable state tax or federal tax shall be:
      A.   First 5,000 gallons            $8.71/1,000 gallons
      B.   Next 5,000 gallons            $7.10/1,000 gallons
      C.   Next 10,000 gallons            $6.59/1,000 gallons
      D.   Next 9,999,999 gallons         $5.98/1,000 gallons
   4.   Rates for Bulk Water Sales. All water furnished to third parties from
hydrants and any other source provided by the City shall be metered and the
following rates to each consumer not including any applicable state tax or
federal tax shall be:
      A.   Service Charge             $31.50
      B.   First 5,000 gallons             $8.71/1,000 gallons
      C.   Next 5,000 gallons             $7.10/1,000 gallons
      D.   Next 10,000 gallons             $6.59/1,000 gallons
      E.   Next 9,999,999 gallons           $5.98/1,000 gallons
Bulk sales of water shall be approved in advance by the Street Superintendent
or the City Administrator.
(Section 92.02 - Ord. 2020-05 - Oct. 20 Supp.)
92.03   RATES FOR FIRE PROTECTION.
In addition to the rates in effect, there shall be a surcharge of “Fire
Protection” for sprinkler systems for fire extinguishment and for the
maintenance of private fire hydrants as follows:
   1.   Sprinkler Systems.
      A.   4-Inch Connection         $10.60/month
      B.   6-Inch Connection         $21.14/month
      C.   8-Inch Connection         $52.87/month
      D.   10-Inch Connection         $95.19/month
   2.   Private Fire Hydrant             $79.33 per annum
92.04   BILLING FOR WATER SERVICE.
Water service shall be billed as part of a combined service account, payable in
accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Bills Issued. The Clerk shall prepare and issue bills for combined
service accounts on or before the first day of each month.
   2.   Bills Payable. Bills for combined service accounts shall be due and
payable at the office of the Clerk by the 15th day of the same month, or the
next business day if the 15th falls on a weekend or holiday.
   3.   Late Payment Penalty. Bills not paid when due shall be considered
delinquent. A one-time late payment penalty of five percent of the amount due
shall be added to each delinquent bill.
92.05   SERVICE DISCONTINUED.
Water service to delinquent customers shall be discontinued or disconnected in
accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Notice. The Clerk shall notify each delinquent customer that service
will be discontinued or disconnected if payment of the combined service
account, including late payment charges, is not received by the date specified
in the notice of delinquency. Such notice shall be sent by ordinary mail to the
customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred and shall inform
the customer of the nature of the delinquency and afford the customer the
opportunity for a hearing prior to the discontinuance or disconnection.
   2.   Notice to Landlords. If the customer is a tenant, and if the owner or
landlord of the property or premises has made a written request for notice, the
notice of delinquency shall also be given to the owner or landlord. If the
customer is a tenant and requests a change of name for service under the
account, such request shall be sent to the owner or landlord of the property if
the owner or landlord has made a written request for notice of any change of
name for service under the account to the rental property.
   3.   Hearing. If a hearing is requested by noon of the day preceding the
shut off, the City Administrator or Clerk shall conduct an informal hearing and
shall make a determination as to whether the discontinuance or disconnection is
justified. The customer has the right to appeal the City Administrator’s or
Clerk’s decision to the Council, and if the Council finds that discontinuance
or disconnection is justified, then such discontinuance or disconnection shall
be made, unless payment has been received.
   4.   Fees. A fee, set by resolution, shall be charged before service is
restored to a delinquent customer. No fee shall be charged for the usual or
customary trips in the regular changes in occupancies of property. Delinquent
account for which a certified letter is sent shall have an administrative fee,
set by resolution, added to the account balance.
92.06   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
The owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof shall be
jointly and severally liable for water service charges to the premises. Water
service charges remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon
the property or premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the
County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.07   LIEN EXEMPTION.  
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Water Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall not apply to
charges for water service to a residential or commercial rental property where
water service is separately metered and the rates or charges for the water
service are paid directly to the City by the tenant, if the landlord gives
written notice to the City that the property is residential or commercial
rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or charges. The
City may require a deposit not exceeding the usual cost of 90 days of such
services to be paid to the City. When the tenant moves from the rental
property, the City shall refund the deposit if all service charges are paid in
full. The lien exemption does not apply to delinquent charges for repairs
related to any of the services.
   2.   Other Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall also not apply
to the charges for any of the services of sewer systems, storm water drainage
systems, sewage treatment, solid waste collection, and solid waste disposal for
a residential rental property where the charge is paid directly to the City by
the tenant, if the landlord gives written notice to the City that the property
is residential rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or
charges for such service. The City may require a deposit not exceeding the
usual cost of 90 days of such services to be paid to the City. When the tenant
moves from the rental property, the City shall refund the deposit if all
service charges are paid in full. The lien exemption does not apply to
delinquent charges for repairs related to any of the services.
   3.   Written Notice. The landlord’s written notice shall contain the name of
the tenant responsible for charges, the address of the residential or
commercial rental property that the tenant is to occupy, and the date that the
occupancy begins. Upon receipt, the City shall acknowledge the notice and
deposit. A change in tenant for a residential rental property shall require a
new written notice to be given to the City within 30 business days of the
change in tenant. A change in tenant for a commercial rental property shall
require a new written notice to be given to the City within 10 business days of
the change in tenant. A change in the ownership of the residential rental
property shall require written notice of such change to be given to the City
within 30 business days of the completion of the change of ownership. A change
in the ownership of the commercial rental property shall require written notice
of such change to be given to the City within 10 business days of the
completion of the change of ownership.
   4.   Mobile Homes, Modular Homes, and Manufactured Homes. A lien for
nonpayment of utility services described in Subsections 1 and 2 of this section
shall not be placed upon a premises that is a mobile home, modular home, or
manufactured home if the mobile home, modular home, or manufactured home is
owned by a tenant of and located in a mobile home park or manufactured home
community and the mobile home park or manufactured home community owner or
manager is the account holder, unless the lease agreement specifies that the
tenant is responsible for payment of a portion of the rates or charges billed
to the account holder.
92.08   LIEN NOTICE.
A lien for delinquent water service charges shall not be certified to the
County Treasurer unless prior written notice of intent to certify a lien is
given to the customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred. If
the customer is a tenant and if the owner or landlord of the property or
premises has made a written request for notice, the notice shall also be given
to the owner or landlord. The notice shall be sent to the appropriate persons
by ordinary mail not less than 30 days prior to certification of the lien to
the County Treasurer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.09   CUSTOMER DEPOSITS.
There shall be required from every customer not the owner of the premises
served a deposit, set by resolution, intended to guarantee the payment of bills
for service.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.10   TEMPORARY VACANCY
A property owner may request water service be temporarily discontinued and shut
off at the curb valve when the property is expected to be vacant for a period
of forty-five days or more. There shall be collected a fee in an amount
established by resolution of the Council for restoring service. During a period
when service is temporarily discontinued as provided herein there shall be no
minimum service charge for water or sewer service. The City will not drain
pipes or pull meters for temporary vacancies.
(Section 92.10 – Ord. 2023-01 – Jan. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 95
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
 
95.01 Purpose                   95.06 Service Outside the City
95.02 Definitions               95.07 Right of Entry
95.03 Superintendent            95.08 Use of Easements
95.04 Prohibited Acts           95.09 Special Penalties
95.05 Sewer Connection Required
 
95.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters of this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Sanitary
Sewers is to establish rules and regulations governing the treatment and
disposal of sanitary sewage within the City in order to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
95.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise,
the following terms are defined:
   1.   “B.O.D.” (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand) means the quantity of
oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20 degrees C, expressed in milligrams per
liter or parts per million.
   2.   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the
building sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
   3.   “Building sewer” means that part of the horizontal piping from the
building wall to its connection with the main sewer or the primary treatment
portion of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system conveying the
drainage of one building site.
   4.   “Combined sewer” means a sewer receiving both surface run-off and
sewage.
   5.   “Customer” means any person responsible for the production of domestic,
commercial, or industrial waste that is directly or indirectly discharged into
the public sewer system.
   6.   “Garbage” means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial
preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage,
and sale of produce.
   7.   “Industrial wastes” means the liquid wastes from industrial
manufacturing processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   8.   “Inspector” means the person duly authorized by the Council to inspect
and approve the installation of building sewers and their connections to the
public sewer system; and to inspect such sewage as may be discharged therefrom.
   9.   “Natural outlet” means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch,
lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   10.   “On-site wastewater treatment and disposal system” means all equipment
and devices necessary for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment,
and disposal of wastewater from four or fewer dwelling units or other
facilities serving the equivalent of 15 persons (1,500 gpd) or less.
   11.   “pH” means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen
ions in grams per liter of solution.
   12.   “Public sewer” means a sewer in which all owners of abutting
properties have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   13.   “Sanitary sewage” means sewage discharging from the sanitary
conveniences of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office
buildings, factories, or institutions, and free from storm, surface water, and
industrial waste.
   14.   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer that carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   15.   “Sewage” means a combination of the water-carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments,
together with such ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   16.   “Sewage treatment plant” means any arrangement of devices and
structures used for treating sewage.
   17.   “Sewage works” or “sewage system” means all facilities for collecting,
pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage.
   18.   “Sewer” means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   19.   “Sewer service charges” means any and all charges, rates or fees
levied against and payable by customers, as consideration for the servicing of
said customers by said sewer system.
   20.   “Slug” means any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste that
in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for
any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average
24-hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   21.   “Storm drain” or “storm sewer” means a sewer that carries storm and
surface waters and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   22.   “Superintendent” means People Service, Inc., or any authorized deputy,
agent, or representative.
   23.    “Suspended solids” means solids that either float on the surface of,
or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and that are removable
by laboratory filtering.
   24.   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
95.03   SUPERINTENDENT.
The Superintendent shall exercise the following powers and duties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Operation and Maintenance. Operate and maintain the City sewage system.
   2.   Inspection and Tests. Conduct necessary inspections and tests to assure
compliance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
   3.   Records. Maintain a complete and accurate record of all sewers, sewage
connections and manholes constructed showing the location and grades thereof.
95.04   PROHIBITED ACTS.
No person shall do, or allow, any of the following:
   1.   Damage Sewer System. Maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment that is a part of the sewer system.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
   2.   Surface Run-Off or Groundwater. Connect a roof downspout, sump pump,
exterior foundation drain, areaway drain, or other source of surface run-off or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   3.   Manholes. Open or enter any manhole of the sewer system, except by
authority of the Superintendent.
   4.   Objectionable Wastes. Place or deposit in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the City, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other
objectionable waste.
   5.   Septic Tanks. Construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage
except as provided in these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
   6.   Untreated Discharge. Discharge to any natural outlet within the City,
or in any area under its jurisdiction, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes,
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
95.05   SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
The owners of any houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in
the future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer, are hereby required
to install, at such owner’s expense, suitable toilet facilities therein and a
building sewer connecting such facilities directly with the proper public
sewer, and to maintain the same all in accordance with the provisions of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters, such compliance to be completed within 90 days after
date of official notice from the City to do so provided that said public sewer
is located within 300 feet of the property line of such owner and is of such
design as to receive and convey by gravity such sewage as may be conveyed to
it. Billing for sanitary sewer service will begin the date of official notice
to connect to the public sewer. In the event the property in question has a
local or State office approval for an alternative waste disposal system, the
provisions herein relating to mandatory connection to available public sewer
shall be waived until complaint of probable sewage pollution has been filed
with the City by local or State health officers, or upon petition of the
landowners in the immediate vicinity for sanitary sewer facilities. Sixty
percent of the landowners affected shall constitute sufficient demand to invoke
mandatory connection as contemplated in this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
95.06   SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
The owners of property outside the corporate limits of the City so situated
that it may be served by the City sewer system may apply to the Council for
permission to connect to the public sewer upon the terms and conditions
stipulated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 & 3])
95.07   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
The Superintendent or representatives shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper,
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
95.08   USE OF EASEMENTS.
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
95.09   SPECIAL PENALTIES.
The following special penalty provisions shall apply to violations of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters:
   1.   Notice of Violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of
these chapters except Subsections 1, 3, and 4 of Section
95.04, shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   2.   Continuing Violations. Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided for in Subsection 1 hereof shall be in violation
of this Code of Ordinances. Each day in which any such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   3.   Liability Imposed. Any person violating any of the provisions of these
chapters shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the City by reason of such violation.
CHAPTER 96
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
 
96.01 Permit                           96.06 Interceptors Required
96.02 Permit Fee and Connection Charge 96.07 Sewer Tap
96.03 Plumber Required                 96.08 Inspection Required
96.04 Excavations                      96.09 Property Owner’s Responsibility
96.05 Connection Requirements          96.10 Abatement of Violations
 
96.01   PERMIT.
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening into,
use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the City. The application for the permit shall
set forth the location and description of the property to be connected with the
sewer system and the purpose for which the sewer is to be used, and shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent. The permit shall require the owner to complete construction and
connection of the building sewer to the public sewer within 30 days after the
issuance of the permit, except that when a property owner makes sufficient
showing that due to conditions beyond the owner’s control or peculiar hardship,
such time period is inequitable or unfair, an extension of time within which to
comply with the provisions herein may be granted. Any sewer connection permit
may be revoked at any time for a violation of these chapters.
96.02   PERMIT FEE AND CONNECTION CHARGE.
The person who makes the application shall pay a fee in the amount of $5.00 for
residential customers and $15.00 for commercial and industrial customers to the
Clerk to cover the cost of issuing the permit and supervising, regulating, and
inspecting the work. In addition, there shall be a connection charge in the
amount of $250.00 for residential customers and $500.00 for commercial and
industrial customers paid to reimburse the City for costs borne by the City in
making sewer service available to the property served.
96.03   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installations of building sewers and connections to the public sewer shall
be made by a State-licensed plumber.
96.04   EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required for the installation of a
building sewer shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the
State Plumbing Code and the provisions of
Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
96.05   CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
Any connection with a public sanitary sewer must be made under the direct
supervision of the Superintendent in accordance with the Sanitary Sewer Service
Line Standards and Requirements and the following:
   1.   Old Building Sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test conducted by
the owner and observed by the Superintendent, to meet all requirements of this
chapter.
   2.   Separate Building Sewers. A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every occupied building; except where one building stands
at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or
can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court,
yard, or driveway. In such cases the building sewer from the front building may
be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building
sewer.
   3.   Installation. The installation and connection of the building sewer to
the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the State Plumbing Code
and applicable rules and regulations of the City. All such connections shall be
made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
   4.   Water Lines. When possible, building sewers should be laid at least 10
feet horizontally from a water service. The horizontal separation may be less,
provided the water service line is located at one side and at least 12 inches
above the top of the building sewer.
   5.   Size. Building sewers shall be sized for the peak expected sewage flow
from the building with a minimum building sewer size of four inches.
   6.   Alignment and Grade. All building sewers shall be laid to a straight
line to meet the following:
      A.   Recommended grade at one-fourth inch per foot.
      B.   Minimum grade of one-eighth inch per foot.
      C.   Minimum velocity of two feet per second with the sewer half full.
      D.   Any deviation in alignment or grade shall be made only with the
written approval of the Superintendent and shall be made only with approved
fittings.
   7.   Depth. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. The depth of cover above the
sewer shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost.
   8.   Sewage Lifts. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low
to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such
drain shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the
building sewer.
   9.   Pipe Specifications. Building sewer pipe shall be free from flaws,
splits, or breaks. Materials shall be as specified in the State Plumbing Code
except that the building sewer pipe, from the property line to the public
sewer, shall comply with the current edition of one of the following:
      A.   Clay sewer pipe – A.S.T.M. C-700 (extra strength).
      B.   Extra heavy cast iron soil pipe – A.S.T.M. A-74.
      C.   Ductile iron water pipe – A.W.W.A. C-151.
      D.   P.V.C. – SDR26 – A.S.T.M. D-3034.
   10.   Bearing Walls. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within
three feet of any bearing wall that might thereby be weakened.
   11.   Jointing. Fittings, type of joint and jointing material shall be
compatible with the type of pipe used, subject to the approval of the
Superintendent. Solvent-welded joints are not permitted.
   12.   Unstable Soil. No sewer connection shall be laid so that it is exposed
when crossing any watercourse. Where an old watercourse must of necessity be
crossed or where there is any danger of undermining or settlement, cast iron
soil pipe or vitrified clay sewer pipe thoroughly encased in concrete shall be
required for such crossings. Such encasement shall extend at least six inches
on all sides of the pipe. The cast iron pipe or encased clay pipe shall rest on
firm, solid material at either end.
   13.   Preparation of Basement or Crawl Space. No connection for any
residence, business or other structure with any sanitary sewer shall be made
unless the basement floor is poured, or in the case of a building with a slab
or crawl space, unless the ground floor is installed with the area adjacent to
the foundation of such building cleared of debris and backfilled. The backfill
shall be well compacted and graded so that the drainage is away from the
foundation. Prior to the time the basement floor is poured, or the first floor
is installed in buildings without basements, the sewer shall be plugged and the
plug shall be sealed by the Superintendent. Any accumulation of water in any
excavation or basement during construction and prior to connection to the
sanitary sewer shall be removed by means other than draining into the sanitary
sewer.
   14.   Slip Lining. The slip lining of existing sewer service lines is
permitted provided the following requirements are observed:
      A.   All slip line installations shall be done in conformity with the
Uniform Plumbing Code.
      B.   The lining must be directly connected to the existing building sewer
at the building edge or building sewer stub.
      C.   The lining must be directly connected to the City sewer main.
      D.   The lining must run the continuous length of the service line.
96.06   INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
Grease, oil, sludge and sand interceptors shall be provided by gas and service
stations, convenience stores, car washes, garages, and other facilities when,
in the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of such wastes that contain grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable waste, sand or other harmful ingredients. Such interceptors shall not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. When required, such
interceptors shall be installed in accordance with the following:
   1.   Design and Location. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity
as specified in the State Plumbing Code, to be approved by the Superintendent,
and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   2.   Construction Standards. The interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious material capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped
with easily removable covers that shall be gastight and watertight.
   3.   Maintenance. All such interceptors shall be maintained by the owner at
the owner’s expense and shall be kept in continuously efficient operations at
all times.
96.07   SEWER TAP.
Connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the “Y”
branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If no properly
located “Y” branch is available, a saddle “Y” shall be installed at the
location specified by the Superintendent. The public sewer shall be tapped with
a tapping machine and a saddle appropriate to the type of public sewer shall be
glued or attached with a gasket and stainless steel clamps to the sewer. At no
time shall a building sewer be constructed so as to enter a manhole unless
special written permission is received from the Superintendent and in
accordance with the Superintendent’s direction if such connection is approved.
96.08   INSPECTION REQUIRED.
All connections with the sanitary sewer system before being covered shall be
inspected and approved, in writing, by the Superintendent. As soon as all pipe
work from the public sewer to inside the building has been completed, and
before any backfilling is done, the Superintendent shall be notified and the
Superintendent shall inspect and test the work as to workmanship and material;
no sewer pipe laid underground shall be covered or trenches filled until after
the sewer has been so inspected and approved. If the Superintendent refuses to
approve the work, the plumber or owner must proceed immediately to correct the
work.
96.09   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
96.10   ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
Construction or maintenance of building sewer lines, whether located upon the
private property of any owner or in the public right-of-way, which construction
or maintenance is in violation of any of the requirements of this chapter,
shall be corrected, at the owner’s expense, within 30 days after date of
official notice from the Council of such violation. If not made within such
time, the Council shall, in addition to the other penalties herein provided,
have the right to finish and correct the work and assess the cost thereof to
the property owner. Such assessment shall be collected with and in the same
manner as general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3])
CHAPTER 97
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
 
97.01 Storm Water              97.06 Restricted Discharges; Powers of
                               Superintendent
97.02 Sump Pumps               97.07 Special Facilities
97.03 Surface Waters Exception 97.08 Control Manholes
97.04 Prohibited Discharges    97.09 Testing of Wastes
97.05 Restricted Discharges    97.10 Sanitary Sewer Infiltration and Sump Pump
                               Inspector
 
97.01   STORM WATER.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, groundwater, roof run-off, sub-surface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer. Storm
water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers that
are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process waters may be discharged on approval of the Superintendent, to a storm
sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
97.02    SUMP PUMPS.
 
   1.   This section prohibits the discharge of storm water or uncontaminated
waters coming into the foundation areas of structures within the City by sump
pumps into the sanitary sewer system. Sump drainage shall be into the existing
storm sewer system or into established surface drainage facilities. The City
reserves the right, on reasonable notice to property owners, to enter and
inspect sump pump installations in order to ascertain correct installation and
operation. Improper installation or operation of sump pump systems shall be
considered a prohibited discharge.
   2.   It is unlawful for persons operating sump pumps within the City to
discharge water either directly or indirectly onto City streets between
November 1 and April 1. The purpose of this prohibition is to prevent the
accumulation of water and ice during cold weather periods when the City storm
sewer system is not capable of efficiently carrying away said water. Perceived
violations of this prohibition shall be treated as simple misdemeanors and the
City shall have further rights granted unto it by the Code of Iowa to proceed
to abate violations in addition to any criminal penalties imposed.
97.03   SURFACE WATERS EXCEPTION.
Special permits for discharging surface waters to a public sanitary sewer may
be issued by the Council upon recommendation of the Superintendent where such
discharge is deemed necessary or advisable for purposes of flushing, but any
permit so issued shall be subject to revocation at any time when deemed to the
best interests of the sewer system.
97.04   PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   1.   Flammable or Explosive Material. Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel
oil, or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
   2.   Toxic or Poisonous Materials. Any waters or wastes containing toxic or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or
create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant,
including but not limited to cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter as
CN in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
   3.   Corrosive Wastes. Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
   4.   Solid or Viscous Substances. Solid or viscous substances in quantities
or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not
limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   5.   Excessive B.O.D., Solids or Flow.
      A.   Any waters or wastes: (i) having a five-day biochemical oxygen
demand greater than 300 parts per million by weight; or (ii) containing more
than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended solids; or (iii) having an
average daily flow greater than two percent of the average sewage flow of the
City, shall be subject to the review of the Superintendent.
      B.   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at the owner’s expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to: (i) reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million
by weight; or (ii) reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by
weight; or (iii) control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters
or wastes. Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating
to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the
approval of the Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
97.05   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances restricted are:
   1.   High Temperature. Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than
150 degrees F (65 degrees C).
   2.   Fat, Oil, Grease. Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or 600
milligrams per liter of dispersed or other soluble matter.
   3.   Viscous Substances. Water or wastes containing substances that may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 degrees F and 150 degrees
F (0 degrees to 65 degrees C).
   4.   Garbage. Any garbage that has not been properly shredded, that is, to
such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow
conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than
one-half inch in any dimension.
   5.   Acids. Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not.
   6.   Toxic or Objectionable Wastes. Any waters or wastes containing iron,
chromium, copper, zinc, and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or
wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such
material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials.
   7.   Odor or Taste. Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste
or odor producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits that may
be established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of State, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
   8.   Radioactive Wastes. Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-
life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable State or federal regulations.
   9.   Excess Alkalinity. Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
   10.   Unusual Wastes. Materials that exert or cause:
      A.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
      B.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
      C.   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
      D.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
   11.   Noxious or Malodorous Gases. Any noxious or malodorous gas or other
substance that, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, is capable
of creating a public nuisance or hazard to life or of preventing entry into
sewers for their maintenance and repair.
   12.   Damaging Substances. Any waters, wastes, materials, or substances that
react with water or wastes in the sewer system to release noxious gases,
develop color of undesirable intensity, form suspended solids in objectionable
concentration or create any other condition deleterious to structures and
treatment processes.
   13.   Untreatable Wastes. Waters or wastes containing substances that are
not amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes
employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage
treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
97.06   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES; POWERS OF SUPERINTENDENT.
If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the
public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in Section
97.04 and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
   1.   Rejection. Reject the wastes by requiring disconnection from the public
sewage system;
   2.   Pretreatment. Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for
discharge to the public sewers;
   3.   Controls Imposed. Require control over the quantities and rates of
discharge; and/or
   4.   Special Charges. Require payment to cover the added cost of handling
and treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under
the provisions of
Chapter 99.
97.07   SPECIAL FACILITIES.
If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws. Where preliminary treatment or
flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
the owner’s expense.
97.08   CONTROL MANHOLES.
When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at the owner’s
expense, and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
97.09   TESTING OF WASTES.
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids analyses are obtained
from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined from
periodic grab samples).
97.10    SANITARY SEWER INFILTRATION AND SUMP PUMP INSPECTOR.
To provide for the orderly inspection and enforcement of sanitary sewer and
sump pump regulations, the Council shall be empowered either to employ directly
as a City employee or to contract with an independent contractor for the
orderly inspection and reporting of violations of the various provisions
contained in the regulations relating to sanitary sewers in this Code of
Ordinances. Said inspector shall have the power to enter upon the premises of
residential, commercial and industrial properties in the City and to conduct
orderly inspections for sump pump sanitary sewer infiltration and other
violations as are contemplated and delineated in these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
Violations will be reported to the City Administrator, who shall proceed with
assessment and/or criminal charges as may be deemed appropriate. The specific
contractual relationship with the sump pump and sanitary sewer infiltration
inspector shall be delineated either in an employment contract or job
description and duties of the City employee or by a written contractual
agreement should the City elect to proceed with an independent contractor. The
term of employment, compensation and specific duties shall be subject to
Council determination within said employment agreements. Any inspection program
conducted under the authority of this section shall be orderly and shall not
discriminate against any person or property on any basis.
CHAPTER 98
ON-SITE WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
 
98.01 When Prohibited             98.06 Maintenance of System
98.02 When Required               98.07 Systems Abandoned
98.03 Compliance with Regulations 98.08 Disposal of Septage
98.04 Permit Required             98.09 Minimum Lot Area
98.05 Discharge Restrictions
 
98.01   WHEN PROHIBITED.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.02   WHEN REQUIRED.
When a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of Section
95.05, every building wherein persons reside, congregate or are employed shall
be provided with an approved on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system
complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
98.03   COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system shall comply with the specifications and
requirements set forth by the Iowa Administrative Code 567, Chapter 69, and
with such additional requirements as are prescribed by the regulations of the
County Board of Health.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3 & 4])
98.04   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall install or alter an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system without first obtaining a permit from the County Board of Health.
98.05   DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.
It is unlawful to discharge any wastewater from an on-site wastewater treatment
and disposal system (except under an NPDES permit) to any ditch, stream, pond,
lake, natural or artificial waterway, drain tile or to the surface of the
ground.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
98.06   MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
The owner of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system shall operate
and maintain the system in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to
the City.
98.07   SYSTEMS ABANDONED.
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by an on-
site wastewater treatment and disposal system, as provided in Section
95.05, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
these Sanitary Sewer chapters and the on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.08   DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE.
No person shall dispose of septage from an on-site treatment system at any
location except an approved disposal site.
98.09   MINIMUM LOT AREA.
No permit shall be issued for any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system employing sub-surface soil absorption facilities where the area of the
lot is less than 43,560 square feet.
CHAPTER 99
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
 
99.01 Sewer Service Charges Required 99.05 Lien for Nonpayment
99.02 Special Rates                  99.06 Deposit
99.03 Private Water Systems          99.07 Special Agreements Permitted
99.04 Payment of Bills               99.08 Irrigation Meter Credit
 
99.01   SEWER SERVICE CHARGES REQUIRED.
Each customer shall pay sewer service charges for the use of and for the
service supplied by the municipal sanitary sewer system based upon the amount
of water consumed as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Gallon Meter and Monthly Billing Rates:
      Minimum Charge 1,300 Gallons or Less   $13.38
      Per 1,000 Gallons over 1,300 Gallons   $6.43/1,000 gallons
99.02   SPECIAL RATES.
Where, in the judgment of the Superintendent and the Council, special
conditions exist to the extent that the application of the sewer charges
provided in Section
99.01 would be inequitable or unfair to either the City or the customer, a
special rate shall be proposed by the Superintendent and submitted to the
Council for approval by resolution. The following special rate are hereby
established:
New Co-op    Minimum Charge    $13.38/month
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.03   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS.
Customers whose premises are served by a private water system shall pay sewer
charges based upon the water used as determined by metering the water system
and installing an outside reader. The sewer service charge shall be the same as
set out in Section
99.01. There shall be a monthly charge, set by resolution, from the time that
the connection is made to the City’s sanitary sewer system until the time that
a meter is installed, pro-rated to a fee per day, set by resolution, if less
than one month. Meters will be installed and maintained as stated in
Chapter 91. If a meter becomes out of order and fails to register, the customer
shall be charged according to the average consumption as shown by the meter
when in order.
99.04   PAYMENT OF BILLS.
All sewer service charges are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section
92.04 of this Code of Ordinances. Sewer service may be discontinued or
disconnected in accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
99.05   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.07 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof shall be jointly and severally liable for sewer
service charges to the premises. Sewer service charges remaining unpaid and
delinquent shall constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and
shall be certified by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the
same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.06   DEPOSIT.
There shall be required from every customer not the owner of the premises
served a deposit, set by resolution, intended to guarantee the payment of bills
for service. Deposits of customers having paid twelve consecutive monthly
payments without penalty will be returned. An occurrence or recurrence of a bad
payment record may be the occasion for the Clerk to require a new or larger
deposit for the continuation of service. If the landlord gives written notice
to the City that the property is residential rental property and that the
tenant is liable for the rates or charges, the deposit shall be equal to the
usual cost of 90 days of sewer service at the subject premises.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.07   SPECIAL AGREEMENTS PERMITTED.
No statement in these chapters shall be construed as preventing a special
agreement, arrangement, or contract between the Council, and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted subject to special conditions, rate, and cost as established by the
Council.
99.08   IRRIGATION METER CREDIT.
Each customer using a permanently installed subtract irrigation meter or a
portable irrigation meter supplied by the City shall receive a credit for the
gallons that did not enter the sewer system and is accounted for by said meter.
   1.   Permanent Subtract Irrigation Meters shall read monthly and the credit
shall appear on the utility bill with the corresponding reading of the primary
water meter.
   2.   Portable Irrigation Meters shall read at City Hall either as it is
returned, or no more than once a month for continued use. The credit shall
appear on the next outgoing utility bill after the reading has been taken.
CHAPTER 100
STORM WATER SYSTEM
 
100.01 Purpose                                100.04 Rates
100.02 Definitions                            100.05 Payment of Bills
100.03 Storm Water System Utility Established 100.06 Lien for Nonpayment
 
100.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish a Storm Water System Utility and
provide a means of funding the construction, operation and maintenance of storm
water management facilities including, but not limited to, detention and
retention basins, storm water sewers, inlets, ditches and drains, and cleaning
of streets. The Council finds that the construction, operation and maintenance
of the City’s storm and surface water drainage system should be funded through
charging users of property which may connect or discharge directly, or
indirectly, into the storm and surface water drainage system.
100.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined as follows:
   1.   “Connection” means the physical act or process of taping a public storm
water sewer or drainage line, or joining onto an existing side sewer, for the
purpose of connecting private impervious surface or other storm and surface
water sources or systems to the public storm and surface water system. It also
includes creation or maintenance of impervious surface that causes or is likely
to cause an increase in the quantity or decrease in quality or both from the
natural state of storm water runoff, and which drains, directly or indirectly,
to the storm and surface water system.
   2.   “Storm and surface water drainage system” means any combination of
publicly owned storm and surface water quantity and quality facilities,
pumping, or lift facilities, storm and secondary drain pipes and culverts, open
channels, creeks and ditches, force mains, laterals, manholes, catch basins and
inlets, including the gates and covers thereof, detention and retention
facilities, laboratory facilities and equipment, and any other publicly owned
facilities for the collection, conveyance, treatment and disposal of storm and
surface water system within the City, to which sanitary sewage flows are not
intentionally admitted.
   3.   “Unit” means each household, each place of commerce/education/
government/religion, or each industry, whether in a single building on single
lot or in a multiple-use building on a single lot or multiple lot complex. Each
unit shall be charged individually, but where the complex is billed under one
combined service account, the recipient of that bill shall be deemed the use
and receive the total combined storm water system charge for that complex.
   4.   “User” means any person who uses property that maintains connection to,
discharges to, or otherwise receives services from the City for storm water
management. The occupant of occupied property is deemed the user. If the
property is not occupied, the person who has the right to occupy it shall be
deemed the user.
100.03   STORM WATER SYSTEM UTILITY ESTABLISHED.
Pursuant to the authority of Section 384.84[5] of the Code of Iowa, the entire
City is hereby declared a storm water system for the purpose of establishing,
imposing, adjusting, and providing for the collection of rates for the
operation and maintenance of storm water management facilities. The entire
City, as increased from time to time by annexation, shall constitute a single
storm water system.
100.04   RATES.
Each user shall pay for storm and surface water drainage system service
provided by the City. The rates for the operation and maintenance of the storm
water management facilities shall be collected by imposing a monthly rate on
each residential, commercial, and industrial user within the City. The service
charges shall be billed as part of a combined service account which means a
customer service account for the provision of two or more utility services. The
Council may adopt rules, charges, rates, and fees for the use of the City’s
storm and surface water system, and for services provided by the City relating
to that system. Such rules may include delinquency and interest charges and
penalties. Such charges and fees shall be just and equitable based upon the
actual costs of operation, maintenance, acquisition, extension and replacement
of the City’s system, the costs of bond repayment, regulation, administration,
and services of the City.
The rates for the foregoing functions shall be collected by imposing a monthly
rate of $2.50 on every City residential unit, $5.00 on every commercial/
educational/governmental/institutional unit, and $20.00 on every industrial
unit. Agricultural use of land is exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
100.05   PAYMENT OF BILLS.
All storm water system charges shall be due and payable under the same terms
and conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained
in Section
92.04 of this Code of Ordinances. All City services may be discontinued in
accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Sections
92.07 and
92.08 relating to lien exemptions and lien notices shall also apply in the
event of a delinquent account.
100.06   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT. Except as provided for in Section
92.07 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof shall be jointly and severally liable for charges for
the operation and maintenance of the storm water management facilities. Fees
remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon the premises
served and shall be certified by the Clerk to County Treasurer for collection
in the same manner as property taxes.
CHAPTER 105
SOLID WASTE CONTROL
 
105.01 Purpose                           105.07 Littering Prohibited
105.02 Definitions                       105.08 Toxic and Hazardous Waste
105.03 Sanitary Disposal Required        105.09 Waste Storage Containers
105.04 Health and Fire Hazard            105.10 Prohibited Practices
105.05 Open Burning Restricted           105.11 Recycling Program
105.06 Separation of Yard Waste Required
 
105.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters in this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Solid
Waste Control and Collection is to provide for the sanitary storage,
collection, and disposal of solid waste and, thereby, to protect the citizens
of the City from such hazards to their health, safety and welfare as may result
from the uncontrolled disposal of solid waste.
105.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Collector” means any person authorized to gather solid waste from
public and private places.
   2.   “Discard” means to place, cause to be placed, throw, deposit, or drop.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[1])
   3.   “Dwelling unit” means any room or group of rooms located within a
structure and forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used or
are intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
   4.   “Garbage” means all solid and semisolid, putrescible animal and
vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing,
serving and consuming of food or of material intended for use as food, and all
offal, excluding useful industrial by-products, and includes all such
substances from all public and private establishments and from all residences.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   5.   “Landscape waste” means any vegetable or plant waste except garbage.
The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds,
leaves, grass, shrubbery, and yard trimmings.
(IAC, 567-20.2[455B])
   6.   “Litter” means any garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, waste materials, or
debris not exceeding 10 pounds in weight or 15 cubic feet in volume. Litter
includes but is not limited to empty beverage containers, cigarette butts, food
waste packaging, other food or candy wrappers, handbills, empty cartons, or
boxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[2])
   7.   “Owner” means, in addition to the record titleholder, any person
residing in, renting, leasing, occupying, operating or transacting business in
any premises, and as between such parties the duties, responsibilities,
liabilities and obligations hereinafter imposed shall be joint and several.
   8.   “Refuse” means putrescible and non-putrescible waste, including but not
limited to garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator residues, street cleanings,
market and industrial solid waste and sewage treatment waste in dry or
semisolid form.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   9.   “Residential premises” means a single-family dwelling and any multiple-
family dwelling up to and including four separate dwelling units.
   10.   “Residential waste” means any refuse generated on the premises as a
result of residential activities. The term includes landscape waste grown on
the premises or deposited thereon by the elements, but excludes garbage, tires,
trade wastes and any locally recyclable goods or plastics.
(IAC, 567-20.2[455B])
   11.   “Rubbish” means non-putrescible solid waste consisting of combustible
and non-combustible waste, such as ashes, paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, or litter of any kind.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   12.   “Sanitary disposal” means a method of treating solid waste so that it
does not produce a hazard to the public health or safety or create a nuisance.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   13.   “Sanitary disposal project” means all facilities and appurtenances
(including all real and personal property connected with such facilities) that
are acquired, purchased, constructed, reconstructed, equipped, improved,
extended, maintained, or operated to facilitate the final disposition of solid
waste without creating a significant hazard to the public health or safety, and
which are approved by the Director of the State Department of Natural
Resources.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
   14.   “Solid waste” means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar
discarded solid or semisolid materials, including but not limited to such
materials resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic
activities. Solid waste may include vehicles, as defined by Section 321.1 of
the Code of Iowa. Solid waste does not include any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
      A.   Hazardous waste regulated under the Federal Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6921-6934.
      B.   Hazardous waste as defined in Section 455B.411 of the Code of Iowa,
except to the extent that rules allowing for the disposal of specific wastes
have been adopted by the State Environmental Protection Commission.
      C.   Source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined in the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended to January 1, 1979.
      D.   Petroleum contaminated soil that has been remediated to acceptable
State or federal standards.
      E.   Steel slag which is a product resulting from the steel manufacturing
process and is managed as an item of value in a controlled manner and not as a
discarded material.
105.03   SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
It is the duty of each owner to provide for the sanitary disposal of all refuse
accumulating on the owner’s premises before it becomes a nuisance. Any such
accumulation remaining on any premises for a period of more than 30 days shall
be deemed a nuisance and the City may proceed to abate such nuisances in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 50 or by initiating proper action in district court.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 657)
105.04   HEALTH AND FIRE HAZARD.
It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any premises, improved
or vacant, or on any public place, such quantities of solid waste that
constitute a health, sanitation or fire hazard.
105.05   OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED.
No person shall allow, cause or permit open burning of combustible materials
where the products of combustion are emitted into the open air without passing
through a chimney or stack, except that open burning is permitted in the
following circumstances:
(IAC, 567-23.2[455B] and 567-100.2)
   1.   Disaster Rubbish. The open burning of rubbish, including landscape
waste, for the duration of the community disaster period in cases where an
officially declared emergency condition exists, provided that the burning of
any structures or demolished structures is conducted in accordance with 40 CFR
Section 61.145.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3a])
   2.   Trees and Tree Trimmings. The open burning of trees and tree trimmings
at a City-operated burning site, provided such burning is conducted in
compliance with the rules established by the State Department of Natural
Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3b])
   3.   Flare Stacks. The open burning or flaring of waste gases, provided such
open burning or flaring is conducted in compliance with applicable rules of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3c])
   4.   Landscape Waste. The disposal by open burning of landscape waste
originating on the premises. However, the burning of landscape waste produced
in clearing, grubbing and construction operations shall be limited to areas
located at least one-fourth mile from any building inhabited by other than the
landowner or tenant conducting the open burning. Rubber tires shall not be used
to ignite landscape waste. The disposal by open burning of landscape waste
originating on the premises subject to the following limitations:
      A.   The burning shall be limited to one Saturday in March or April, date
to be determined by resolution of the City Council, the third Saturday of
October and the first and third Saturdays of November between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
      B.   All fires shall be constantly attended until the fire is completely
extinguished and a hose connected to a water supply (or other fire
extinguishing apparatus) shall be readily available.
      C.   No burning is allowed on City property, including street right-of-
way.
      D.   No garbage, paper, tires or processed lumber shall be burned or used
to ignite any fire.
However, the open burning of landscape waste resulting from construction
operations on the premises or the burning of native grasses and/or prairies
shall be allowed on any weekday. Such burning shall be subject to the
limitations of paragraphs B through D above and a landscape waste open burning
construction permit must first be obtained from the Clerk.    
(IAC, 567-23.2[3d])
   5.   Recreational Fires. Open fires for cooking, heating, recreation, and
ceremonies, provided they comply with the limits for emission of visible air
contaminants established by the State Department of Natural Resources. Rubber
tires shall not be burned in a recreational fire.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3e])
   6.   Training Fires. Fires set for the purpose of conducting bona fide
training of public or industrial employees in firefighting methods, provided
that the training fires are conducted in compliance with rules established by
the State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3g])
   7.   Pesticide Containers and Seed Corn Bags. The disposal by open burning
of paper or plastic pesticide containers (except those formerly containing
organic forms of beryllium, selenium, mercury, lead, cadmium or arsenic) and
seed corn bags resulting from farming activities occurring on the premises if
burned in accordance with rules established by the State Department of Natural
Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3h])
   8.   Agricultural Structures. The open burning of agricultural structures if
in accordance with rules and limitations established by the State Department of
Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3i])
   9.   Controlled Burning of a Demolished Building. The controlled burning of
a demolished building by the City, subject to approval of the Council, provided
that the controlled burning is conducted in accordance with rules and
limitations established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3j])
   10.   Variance. Any person wishing to conduct open burning of materials not
permitted herein may make application for a variance to the Director of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[2])
105.06   SEPARATION OF YARD WASTE REQUIRED.
All yard waste shall be separated by the owner or occupant from all other solid
waste accumulated on the premises and shall be composted or burned on the
premises or placed in containers and set out for collection. Yard waste set out
for collection must be placed in specially purchased City of Humboldt compost
bags within five feet of the curb. The weight of any individual bag shall not
exceed 50 pounds. As used in this section, “yard waste” means any debris such
as grass clippings, leaves, garden waste, brush and trees. Yard waste does not
include tree stumps.
105.07   LITTERING PROHIBITED.
No person shall discard any litter onto or in any water or land, except that
nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authorized collection
and discarding of such litter in or on areas or receptacles provided for such
purpose. When litter is discarded from a motor vehicle, the driver of the motor
vehicle shall be responsible for the act in any case where doubt exists as to
which occupant of the motor vehicle actually discarded the litter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.363)
105.08   TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS WASTE.
No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for
collection any toxic or hazardous waste. Such materials shall be transported
and disposed of as prescribed by the Director of the State Department of
Natural Resources. As used in this section, “toxic and hazardous waste” means
waste materials, including (but not limited to) poisons, pesticides,
herbicides, acids, caustics, pathological waste, flammable or explosive
materials, and similar harmful waste that requires special handling and that
must be disposed of in such a manner as to conserve the environment and protect
the public health and safety.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
(IAC, 567-102.13[2] and 400-27.14[2])
105.09    WASTE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing or renting any premises,
dwelling unit or any place where solid waste accumulates shall provide and at
all times maintain in good order and repair containers for solid waste in
accordance with the following:
   1.   Container Specifications. Solid waste storage containers shall comply
with the following specifications:
      A.   General Provisions. All solid waste containers shall be leak-proof
and waterproof, conforming to industry standards in manufacturing of such
containers. All containers shall be securely fastened, and shall be fitted with
a fly-tight lid which shall be kept in place except when depositing or removing
the contents of the container. All owners or users shall be responsible to
prevent their solid waste from being blown or scattered onto neighboring
private or public property.
      B.   Requirements for City-Approved Bags. All residential accounts and
all non-residential accounts that use a solid waste container smaller than one
cubic yard in capacity shall place all solid waste for City collection only in
specially marked bags approved by the City. Such bags shall be available from
the City and approved local retailers. All solid waste bags set out for
collection must be securely fastened and the total weight of each bag and
contents shall not exceed 50 pounds.
   2.   Location of Containers.
      A.   Residential Premises. Except when placed for collection no earlier
than 24 hours before the scheduled collection time, all solid waste containers
larger than a 96 gallon capacity shall be stored on the premises in a garage or
other solid enclosure made of dimensional lumber or masonry, materials to be
approved by the Zoning Administrator (but not chain link fencing or plywood).
Dimensional lumber, for the purposes of this section is defined as lumber that
is finished/planed and cut to standardized width and depth specified in inches.
Any enclosure must be completely enclosed on four sides. The height of the
enclosure shall be six inches above the height of the container therein, but in
no event less than six feet in height. All enclosures and containers shall be
placed on a poured concrete or other hard-surfaced pad.
      B.   Non-residential Premises. Solid waste containers on non-residential
premises shall be stored upon the premises and away from a public street,
unless the owner has been granted written permission from the City to use
public property for such purposes. The site shall be well drained, and fully
accessible to collection equipment, public health personnel and fire inspection
personnel.
   3.   Placement of Containers for Collection. Residential containers for the
storage of solid waste awaiting collection shall be placed within five feet of
the curb by the owner or occupant of the premises served. Nonresidential
containers for the storage of solid waste awaiting collection shall be placed
outdoors at some easily accessible place by the owner or occupant of the
premises served.
   4.   Nonconforming Containers. Solid waste placed in containers which are
not in compliance with the provisions of this section are prohibited and will
not be collected by the City.
   5.   Temporary Bulk Solid Waste Containers. Temporary solid waste containers
may be placed unenclosed for purposes of on-premises construction or remodeling
activities for a period not to exceed 45 consecutive days in any one calendar
year. All such temporary containers are subject to the frequency of collection
provisions in Section 106.04.
105.10   PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
It is unlawful for any person to:
   1.   Unlawful Use of Containers. Deposit refuse in any solid waste
containers not owned by such person without the written consent of the owner of
such containers.
   2.   Interfere with Collectors. Interfere in any manner with solid waste
collection equipment or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance
of their duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors be those of the
City, or those of any other authorized waste collection service.
   3.   Incinerators. Burn rubbish or garbage except in incinerators designed
for high temperature operation, in which solid, semisolid, liquid, or gaseous
combustible refuse is ignited and burned efficiently, and from which the solid
residues contain little or no combustible material, as acceptable to the
Environmental Protection Commission.
   4.   Scavenging. Take or collect any solid waste that has been placed out
for collection on any premises, unless such person is an authorized solid waste
collector.
105.11   RECYCLING PROGRAM.
A mandatory program for the separation of recyclable materials by all
residential premises and commercial establishments is hereby established. All
recyclable material shall be separated and prepared for collection in
accordance with the rules and regulations as established by the Council and the
following:
   1.   Residential Recycling. The City shall provide to each single-family
dwelling and multiple-family dwelling unit that is served by the City’s solid
waste service one recycling container which shall remain the property of the
City. The recycling container shall be placed within five feet of the curb on
the same day as the regular solid waste collection.
   2.   Nonresidential Recycling. All nonresidential establishments shall
separate recyclable material from all other solid waste accumulated on the
premises and properly dispose of such.
CHAPTER 106
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
 
106.01 Collection Service      106.05 Bulky Rubbish
106.02 Collection Vehicles     106.06 Right of Entry
106.03 Loading                 106.07 Collection Fees
106.04 Frequency of Collection 106.08 Lien for Nonpayment
 
106.01   COLLECTION SERVICE.
   1.   The City shall provide for the collection of all solid waste from
residential premises within the City. The owners or operators of commercial,
industrial or institutional premises may utilize the City collection service or
provide for the collection of solid waste produced upon such premises.
   2.   All residential premises receiving municipal water service shall be
charged for solid waste collection whether or not such service is utilized. A
residential premises is exempt from the collection service requirement when
water service is not available. Such availability will be determined by the
presence or absence of a water meter and shall not be affected by temporary
absences or vacancies. It is the customer’s responsibility to notify the Clerk
of any change in service status.
106.02   COLLECTION VEHICLES.
Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of garbage
and similar putrescible waste or solid waste containing such materials shall be
leak-proof, durable and of easily cleanable construction. They shall be cleaned
to prevent nuisances, pollution, or insect breeding and shall be maintained in
good repair.
(IAC, 567-104.9[455B])
106.03   LOADING.
Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of any solid
waste shall be loaded and moved in such a manner that the contents will not
fall, leak, or spill therefrom, and shall be covered to prevent blowing or loss
of material. Where spillage does occur, the material shall be picked up
immediately by the collector or transporter and returned to the vehicle or
container and the area properly cleaned.
106.04   FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
All solid waste shall be collected from residential premises at least once each
week and from commercial, industrial and institutional premises as frequently
as may be necessary, but not less than once each week.
106.05   BULKY RUBBISH.
Bulky rubbish that is too large or heavy to be collected in the normal manner
of other solid waste may be collected by the collector upon request in
accordance with procedures established by the Council.
106.06   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
Solid waste collectors are hereby authorized to enter upon private property for
the purpose of collecting solid waste, as required by this chapter; however,
solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling units or other residential
buildings.
106.07   COLLECTION FEES.
The collection and disposal of solid waste as provided by this chapter are
declared to be beneficial to the property served or eligible to be served and
there shall be levied and collected fees for the same, in accordance with the
following:
(Goreham vs. Des Moines, 1970, 179 NW 2nd, 449)
   1.   Collection Fees. The fees for solid waste collection and disposal
service, used or available, are:
      A.   For each residential premises and for each dwelling unit of a
multiple-family dwelling – $7.50 per month.
      B.   For each non-residential premises utilizing a solid waste container
with a capacity of less than one cubic yard – $7.50 per month.
      C.   For non-residential premises utilizing solid waste containers with
the capacity of one cubic yard or larger, the fee shall be determined by the
City based upon the premises’ waste volume as follows:
         (1)   For each solid waste container used with a capacity of one cubic
yard or more, but smaller than three cubic yards the monthly fee shall be:
            One collection per week:   $ 60.00
            Two collections per week:   $ 120.00
            Three collections per week:   $ 180.00
            Four collections per week:   $ 240.00
            Five collections per week   $ 300.00
         (2)   For each solid waste container used equal to three cubic yard
capacity, the monthly fee shall be:
            One collection per week:   $ 120.00
            Two collections per week:   $ 240.00
            Three collections per week:   $ 360.00
            Four collections per week:   $ 480.00
            Five collections per week   $ 600.00
   2.   Landfill Fee. Each residential premises, each dwelling unit of a
multiple-family dwelling and each commercial, industrial and institutional
premises, regardless of the type of service utilized, shall pay a landfill fee
of $6.50 per month.
   3.   Payment of Bills. All fees are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section
92.04 of this Code of Ordinances. Solid waste collection service may be
discontinued in accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
106.08   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.07 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof are jointly and severally liable for fees for solid
waste collection and disposal. Fees remaining unpaid and delinquent shall
constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and shall be certified
by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as
property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
CHAPTER 110
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
 
110.01 Grant of Franchise                 110.06 City Held Harmless
110.02 Restrictions and Limitations       110.07 Compliance with Iowa Utilities
                                          Board Regulations
110.03 Excavation Rights                  110.08 Iowa Laws and Regulations
110.04 Costs of Locations and Relocations 110.09 Assignment
110.05 Excavations
 
110.01 GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
There is hereby granted to MidAmerican Energy Company, an Iowa corporation,
hereinafter called “Company,” and to its successors and assigns the non-
exclusive right and franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain and
operate in the City a gas distribution system, to furnish natural gas along,
under and upon the streets, avenues and alleys to serve customers within and
without the City and to furnish and sell natural gas to the City and its
inhabitants. For the term of the franchise the Company is granted the right of
eminent domain, the exercise of which is subject to Council approval upon
application by the Company. The franchise shall be effective for a 25-year
period from and after the effective date of the ordinance codified herein† 4 ;
provided, however, there may be a re-evaluation prior to the end of the tenth
year, with the opportunity for both parties to request amendments. If neither
party requests such re-evaluation by means of a written notice to the other
party during the last 60 days of year 10, then the franchise shall continue
without change for the remaining 15 years.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 2000-04 granting a gas franchise to MidAmerican
4 Energy Company was passed and approved by the Council on May 15, 2000. Voters
  approved the franchise on July 11, 2000, by a vote of 1,042 to 228. MidAmerican
  Energy Company filed letter of acceptance on July 25, 2000.
110.02    RESTRICTIONS AND LIMITATIONS.
The rights and privileges hereby granted are subject to the restrictions and
limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa.
110.03    EXCAVATION RIGHTS.
The Company shall have the right to excavate in any public street for the
purpose of laying, re-laying, repairing or extending gas pipes, mains,
conduits, and other facilities, provided that the same shall be so placed as
not to interfere with the construction of any water pipes, drain or sewer (or
the flow of water therefrom) which have been or may hereafter be located by
authority of the City.
110.04    COSTS OF LOCATIONS AND RELOCATIONS.
The Company shall, at its cost and expense, locate and relocate its
installations in, on, over or under any public street or alley in the City in
such manner as the City may at any time reasonably require for the purposes of
facilitating the construction, reconstruction, maintenance or repair of the
street or alley or any public improvement of, in or about any such street or
alley or reasonably promoting the efficient operation of any such improvement.
If the City has a reasonable alternative route for the street, alley or public
improvements, which alternative route would not cause the relocation of the
Company installations, the City may consider selecting said alternative route.
If project funds from a source other than the City are available to pay for the
relocation of utility facilities, the City shall use its best efforts to secure
said funds and provide them to the Company to compensate the Company for the
costs of relocation.
110.05    EXCAVATIONS.
In making excavations in any streets, avenues, alleys and public places for the
installation of gas pipes, conduits or apparatus, Company shall not
unreasonably obstruct the use of the streets and shall replace the surface,
restoring the original condition as nearly as practicable.
110.06    CITY HELD HARMLESS.
Company shall indemnify and save harmless the City from any and all claims,
suits, losses, damages, costs or expenses on account of injury or damage to any
person or property, caused or occasioned, or allegedly caused or occasioned, in
whole or in part, by Company’s negligence in construction, reconstruction,
excavation, operation or maintenance of the gas utilities authorized by the
franchise, provided, however, that the Company shall not be obligated to
defend, indemnify and save harmless the City for any costs or damages arising
from the negligence of the City, its officers, employees or agents.
110.07    COMPLIANCE WITH IOWA UTILITIES BOARD REGULATIONS.
The Company shall extend its mains and pipes and operate and maintain the
system in accordance with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities
Board or its successor.
110.08    IOWA LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
During the term of the franchise the Company shall furnish natural gas in the
quantity and quality consistent with applicable Iowa laws and regulations.
110.09    ASSIGNMENT.
The franchise shall apply to and bind the City and Company, their successors
and assigns, provided that any transfer or assignment by the Company shall be
subject to the approval by the Council by resolution, which approval shall not
be unreasonably withheld, except that no consent shall be required for any
assignment or transfer by merger, consolidation or reorganization. The City
shall have sixty days from receipt of notice of assignment or transfer to adopt
the resolution. If the City fails to adopt a resolution affirming or rejecting
the assignment or transfer during the 60-day period, the assignment or transfer
shall be deemed approved. The Company shall provide notice to the City in the
event of any proposed transfer or assignment.
CHAPTER 111
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
 
111.01 Franchise Granted            111.06 Indemnification
111.02 Rights and Privileges        111.07 Applicable Regulations
111.03 Poles and Wires              111.08 Quantity and Quality
111.04 Construction and Maintenance 111.09 Franchise Fee
111.05 Excavations
 
111.01 FRANCHISE GRANTED.
There is hereby granted to MidAmerican Energy Company, an Iowa corporation,
hereinafter called the “Company,” and its successors and assigns, the right and
franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain and operate in the City of
Humboldt, Iowa, hereinafter called the “City,” a system for the transmission
and distribution of electric energy and communications signals along, under,
over and upon the streets, avenues, alleys and public places to serve customers
within and without the City, and to furnish and sell electric energy to the
City and its inhabitants. For the term of this franchise the Company is granted
the right of eminent domain, the exercise of which is subject to City Council
approval upon application by the Company. This franchise shall be effective for
a 16 year period from and after the effective date of the ordinance codified by
this chapter† 5  and shall expire on September 11, 2025.
 
Notes
5 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 2009-05, adopting an electric franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on April 6, 2009.
111.02    RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
The rights and privileges hereby granted are subject to the restrictions and
limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa 2007 or as subsequently amended
or changed.
111.03    POLES AND WIRES.
The Company shall have the right to erect all necessary poles and to place
thereon the necessary wires, fixtures and accessories as well as excavate and
bury conductors for the distribution of electric energy and communications
signals in and through the City, but all said conduits and poles shall be
placed as not to interfere with the construction of any water pipes, drain or
sewer, or the flow of water therefrom, which have been or may hereafter be
located by authority of the City. The Company is authorized and empowered to
prune or remove at Company expense any tree extending into any street, alley or
public grounds to maintain electric reliability, safety, to restore utility
service and to prevent limbs, branches or trunks from interfering with the
wires and facilities of the Company. The pruning of trees shall be done to
current nationally accepted safety and utility industry standards.
111.04    CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
The Company shall, at its cost and expense, locate and relocate its
installations in, on, over or under any public street or alley in the City in
such manner as the City may at any time reasonably require for the purposes of
facilitating the construction, reconstruction, maintenance or repair of the
street or alley or any public improvement of, in or about any such street or
alley or reasonably promoting the efficient operation of any such improvement.
If the City has a reasonable alternative route for the street, alley or public
improvements or an alternative construction method, which would not cause the
relocation of the Company installations, the City shall consider but is not
required to select said alternative route, or construction method. If
relocation of the Company facilities could be avoided by relocating other
franchisee’s or facility user’s equipment and facilities or by using a
different method to perform the street and/or curbing construction, and said
other cost of construction or relocation is less than the Company’s, the City
shall consider but is not required to select the route or method that is less
expensive. The Company will notify the City if project funds from a source
other than the City are available to pay for the relocation of utility
facilities, the City shall attempt to secure said funds and provide them to the
Company to compensate the Company for the costs of relocation.
111.05    EXCAVATIONS.
In making excavations in any public streets, avenues, alleys and public places
for the excavation of conduits or the erection of poles and wires or other
appliances the Company shall not unreasonably obstruct the use of the streets.
The Company shall replace the surface, restoring the original condition as
nearly as practicable in compliance with the Humboldt City Code. The Company
shall obtain a City permit prior to cutting or excavating any public street,
avenue or alley. In the event of an emergency situation or electric outage the
Company is authorized to make all necessary repairs. The Company shall file for
the permit after the emergency has been abated or electric service restored.
111.06    INDEMNIFICATION.
The Company shall indemnify and save harmless the City from any and all claims,
suits, losses, damages, costs or expenses, on account of injury or damage to
any person or property, caused or occasioned in whole or in part, by the
Company’s negligence in construction, reconstruction, excavation, operation or
maintenance of the electric facilities authorized by this franchise; provided,
however, that the Company shall not be obligated to defend, indemnify and save
harmless the City for any costs or damages arising from the negligence of the
City, its officers, employees or agents.
111.07    APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
The Company shall construct, operate and maintain its facilities in accordance
with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board or its successors.
111.08    QUANTITY AND QUALITY.
During the term of this franchise, the Company shall furnish electric energy in
the quantity and quality consistent with applicable Iowa laws and regulations.
111.09    FRANCHISE FEE.
The City reserves the right to impose a franchise fee pursuant to the Iowa
Code. The franchise fee shall only be imposed through the adoption of an
ordinance authorizing said franchise fee. The City shall work with the Company
to develop a methodology and timeline to implement the franchise fee. The City
shall provide the Company with written notice no less than 90-days in advance
of the effective date of any franchise fee enacted by the City.
CHAPTER 115
CEMETERY
 
115.01 Definition                115.05 Records
115.02 Trusteeship               115.06 Sale of Interment Rights
115.03 Cemetery Sexton Appointed 115.07 Perpetual Care
115.04 Duties of Sexton          115.08 Rules and Regulations
 
115.01   DEFINITION.
The term “cemetery” means the Union Cemetery, which is a municipal cemetery
under the provisions of Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa and which shall be
operated under the provisions of Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa and this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.501)
115.02   TRUSTEESHIP.
Pursuant to Section 523I.502 of the Code of Iowa, the City Council hereby
states its willingness and intention to act as the trustee for the perpetual
maintenance of the cemetery property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.502)
115.03   CEMETERY SEXTON APPOINTED.
The Council shall appoint a Cemetery Sexton who shall operate the cemetery in
accordance with applicable rules and regulations and under the direction of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
115.04   DUTIES OF SEXTON.
The duties of the Cemetery Sexton are as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Supervise Openings. Supervise the opening of all graves and be present
at every interment in the cemetery.
   2.   Maintenance. Be responsible for the maintenance of the cemetery
buildings, grounds and equipment and make a monthly report of the cemetery
operation to the Council.
115.05   RECORDS.
It is the duty of the Clerk to make and keep complete records identifying the
owners of all interment rights sold by the cemetery and historical information
regarding any transfers of ownership. The records shall include all of the
following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.311)
   1.   Sales or Transfers of Interment Rights.
      A.   The name and last known address of each owner or previous owner of
interment rights.
      B.   The date of each purchase or transfer of interment rights.
      C.   A unique numeric or alphanumeric identifier that identifies the
location of each interment space sold by the cemetery.
   2.   Interments.
      A.   The date the remains are interred.
      B.   The name, date of birth, and date of death of the decedent interred,
if those facts can be conveniently obtained.
      C.   A unique numeric or alphanumeric identifier that identifies the
location of each interment space where the remains are interred.
115.06   SALE OF INTERMENT RIGHTS.
The sale or transfer of interment rights in the cemetery shall be evidenced by
a certificate of interment rights or other instrument evidencing the conveyance
of exclusive rights of interment upon payment in full of the purchase price.
The agreement for interment rights shall disclose all information required by
Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa. The payment of all fees and charges shall be
made at the office of the Clerk where receipts will be issued for all amounts
paid. Said fees and charges shall be based upon the charges as established by
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.310)
115.07   PERPETUAL CARE.
The Council, by resolution, shall accept, receive, and expend all moneys and
property donated or left to them by bequest for perpetual care, and that
portion of interment space sales or permanent charges made against interment
spaces which has been set aside in a perpetual care fund. The assets of the
perpetual care fund shall be invested in accordance with State law. The
Council, by resolution, shall provide for the payment of interest annually to
the appropriate fund, or to the cemetery, or to the person in charge of the
cemetery, to be used in caring for or maintaining the individual property of
the donor in the cemetery or interment spaces that have been sold with
provisions for perpetual care, all in accordance with the terms of the donation
or bequest or the terms of the sale or purchase of an interment space and
Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.503, 523I.507 & 523I.508)
115.08   RULES AND REGULATIONS.
Rules and regulations for the cemetery may be adopted, and may be amended from
time to time, by resolution of the Council and may cover such things as the
use, care, control, management, restrictions and protection of the cemetery as
necessary for the proper conduct of the business of the cemetery. The rules
shall specify the cemetery’s obligations in the event that interment spaces,
memorials, or memorializations are damaged or defaced by acts of vandalism. Any
veteran, as defined in Section 35.1 of the Code of Iowa, who is a landowner or
who lives within the City shall be allowed to purchase an interment space and
to be interred within the cemetery. In addition, any veteran who purchases an
interment space within the cemetery shall be allowed to purchase an interment
space for interment of the spouse of the veteran if such a space is available,
and the surviving spouse of a veteran interred within the cemetery shall be
allowed to purchase an interment space and be interred within the cemetery if
such a space is available.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.304)
CHAPTER 120
LIQUOR LICENSES AND WINE AND BEER PERMITS
 
120.01 License or Permit Required 120.04 Action by Council
120.02 General Prohibition        120.05 Prohibited Sales and Acts
120.03 Investigation              120.06 Amusement Devices
 
120.01   LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall manufacture for sale, import, sell, or offer or keep for sale,
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer without first securing a liquor control
license, wine permit, or beer permit in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.22, 123.122, and 123.171)
120.02   GENERAL PROHIBITION.
It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, sell, offer or keep for sale, possess
or transport alcoholic liquor, wine or beer except upon the terms, conditions,
limitations, and restrictions enumerated in Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa,
and a license or permit may be suspended or revoked or a civil penalty may be
imposed for a violation thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.2, 123.39, and 123.50)
120.03   INVESTIGATION.
Upon receipt of an application for a liquor license, wine or beer permit, the
Clerk may forward it to the Police Chief, who shall then conduct an
investigation and submit a written report as to the truth of the facts averred
in the application. The Fire Chief may also inspect the premises to determine
if they conform to the requirements of the City. The Council shall not approve
an application for a license or permit for any premises that does not conform
to the applicable law and ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.30)
120.04   ACTION BY COUNCIL.
The Council shall either approve or disapprove the issuance of a retail alcohol
license, shall endorse its approval or disapproval on the application, and
shall forward the application with the necessary fee and bond, if required, to
the Iowa Department of Revenue.   
(Ord. 2023-10 – Jan. 24 Supp.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.32[2])
120.05   PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS.
A person holding a retail alcohol license and the person’s agents or employees
shall not do any of the following:
   1.   Sell, dispense, or give to any intoxicated person, or one simulating
intoxication, any alcoholic beverage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[1])
   2.   Sell or dispense any alcoholic beverage on the premises covered by the
license or permit its consumption thereon between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:
00 a.m. on any day of the week.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2b])
   3.   Sell alcoholic beverages to any person on credit, except with a bona
fide credit card. This provision does not apply to sales by a club to its
members, to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide registered guests, or to
retail sales by the managing entity of a convention center, civic center, or
events center.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2c])
   4.   Employ a person under 18 years of age in the sale or serving of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold, except as
follows:
      A.   Definitions. For use in this subsection the following terms are
defined as follows:
         (1)   “Bar” means an establishment where one may purchase alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises and in which the serving of food is
only incidental to the consumption of those beverages.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 142D.2[1])
         (2)   “Restaurant” means eating establishments, including private and
public school cafeterias, which offer food to the public, guests, or employees,
including the kitchen and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the
premises for serving elsewhere, and including a bar area within a restaurant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 142D.2[17])
      B.   This subsection shall not apply if the employer has, on file,
written permission from the parent, guardian, or legal custodian of a person 16
or 17 years of age for the person to sell or serve alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises where sold. However, a person 16 or 17 years of age
shall not work in a bar as defined in Paragraph A.
         (1)   The employer shall keep a copy of the written permission on file
until the person is either 18 years of age or no longer engaged in the sale of
or serving alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold.
         (2)   If written permission is on file in accordance with Paragraph B,
a person 16 or 17 years of age may sell or serve alcoholic beverages in a
restaurant as defined above in Paragraph A during the hours in which the
restaurant serves food.
      C.   A person 16 or 17 years of age shall not sell or serve alcoholic
beverages under this subsection unless at least two employees 18 years of age
or older are physically present in the area where alcoholic beverages are sold
or served.
      D.   If a person employed under this subsection reports an incident of
workplace harassment to the employer or if the employer otherwise becomes aware
of such an incident, the employer shall report the incident to the employee’s
parent, guardian, or legal custodian and to the Iowa Civil Rights Commission,
which shall determine if any action is necessary or appropriate under Chapter
216 of the Code of Iowa.
      E.   An employer that employs a person under this subsection shall
require the person to attend training on prevention and response to sexual
harassment upon commencing employment.
      F.   Prior to a person commencing employment under this subsection, the
employer shall notify the employer’s dramshop liability insurer, in a form and
time period prescribed by the Director, that the employer is employing a person
under this subsection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2f])
   5.   In the case of a retail wine or beer permittee, knowingly allow the
mixing or adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to wine, beer, or any
other beverage in or about the permittee’s place of business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2i])
   6.   Knowingly permit any gambling, except in accordance with Iowa law, or
knowingly permit any solicitation for immoral purposes, or immoral or
disorderly conduct on the premises covered by the license.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2a])
   7.   Knowingly permit or engage in any criminal activity on the premises
covered by the license.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2j])
   8.   Keep on premises covered by a retail alcohol license any alcoholic
liquor in any container except the original package purchased from the Iowa
Department of Revenue and except mixed drinks or cocktails mixed on the
premises for immediate consumption. However, mixed drinks or cocktails that are
mixed on the premises and are not for immediate consumption may be consumed on
the licensed premises, subject to rules adopted by the Iowa Department of
Revenue.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2d])
   9.   Reuse for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine any container or
receptacle used originally for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine; or
adulterate, by the addition of any substance, the contents or remaining
contents of an original package of an alcoholic liquor or wine; or knowingly
possess any original package that has been reused or adulterated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2e])
   10.   Allow any person other than the licensee or employees of the licensee
to use or keep on the licensed premises any alcoholic liquor in any bottle or
other container that is designed for the transporting of such beverages, except
as allowed by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2g])
   11.   Sell, give, possess, or otherwise supply a machine that is used to
vaporize an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of being consumed in a vaporized
form.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2k])
   12.   Permit or allow any person under 21 years of age to remain upon
licensed premises unless over 50 percent of the dollar volume of the business
establishment comes from the sale and serving of prepared foods. This provision
does not apply to holders of a Class “B” retail alcohol license or an
establishment employee when employed in compliance with State law.
(Section 120.05 – Ord. 2023-10 – Jan. 24 Supp.)
120.06   AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
The following provisions pertain to electrical or mechanical amusement devices
possessed and used in accordance with Chapter 99B of the Code of Iowa. (Said
devices are allowed only in premises with a liquor control license or beer
permit, as specifically authorized in said Chapter 99B.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 99B.57)
   1.   As used in this section, “registered electrical or mechanical amusement
device” means an electrical or mechanical device required to be registered with
the Iowa Department of Inspection and Appeals, as provided in Section 99B.53 of
the Code of Iowa.
   2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to participate in the
operation of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   3.   It is unlawful for any person owning or leasing a registered electrical
or mechanical amusement device, or an employee of a person owning or leasing a
registered electrical or mechanical amusement device, to knowingly allow a
person under the age of 21 to participate in the operation of a registered
electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   4.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly participate in the operation
of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device with a person under
the age of 21.
CHAPTER 121
CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO PERMITS
 
121.01 Definitions             121.06 Refunds
121.02 Permit Required         121.07 Persons Under Legal Age
121.03 Application             121.08 Self-Service Sales Prohibited
121.04 Fees                    121.09 Permit Revocation
121.05 Issuance and Expiration
 
121.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.1)
   1.   “Alternative nicotine product” means a product, not consisting of or
containing tobacco, that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing, or
by any other means. “Alternative nicotine product” does not include cigarettes,
tobacco products, or vapor products, or a product that is regulated as a drug
or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   2.   “Cigarette” means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of
tobacco, or any substitute for tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and
irrespective of tobacco or any substitute for tobacco being flavored,
adulterated, or mixed with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper
or cover made of paper or any other material. However, cigarette shall not be
construed to include cigars.
   3.   “Place of business” means any place where cigarettes, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or vapor products are sold, stored, or kept for
the purpose of sale or consumption by a retailer.
   4.   “Retailer” means every person who sells, distributes or offers for sale
for consumption, or possesses for the purpose of sale for consumption,
cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products, irrespective of
the quantity or amount or the number of sales, or who engages in the business
of selling tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products to ultimate consumers.
   5.   “Self-service display” means any manner of product display, placement,
or storage from which a person purchasing the product may take possession of
the product, prior to purchase, without assistance from the retailer or
employee of the retailer, in removing the product from a restricted access
location.
   6.   “Tobacco products” means the following: cigars; little cigars;
cheroots; stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed and
other smoking tobacco; snuff; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and
other chewing tobaccos; shorts or refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings and
sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such
manner as to be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or for
both chewing and smoking, but does not mean cigarettes.
   7.   “Vapor product” means any noncombustible product, which may or may not
contain nicotine, that employs a heating element, power source, electronic
circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of
shape or size, that can be used to produce vapor from a solution or other
substance. “Vapor product” includes an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device, and any
cartridge or other container of a solution or other substance, which may or may
not contain nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar
product or device. “Vapor product” does not include a product regulated as a
drug or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter
V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
121.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   1.   Retail Cigarette Permits. It is unlawful for any person, other than a
holder of a retail permit, to sell cigarettes, alternative nicotine products,
or vapor products at retail and no retailer shall distribute, sell, or solicit
the sale of any cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products
within the City without a valid permit for each place of business. The permit
shall, at all times, be publicly displayed at the place of business so as to be
easily seen by the public and the persons authorized to inspect the place of
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13)
   2.   Retail Tobacco Permits. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a retailer of tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products at any place of business without first having
received a permit as a retailer for each place of business owned or operated by
the retailer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A)
A retailer who holds a retail cigarette permit is not required to also obtain a
retail tobacco permit. However, if a retailer only holds a retail cigarette
permit and that permit is suspended, revoked, or expired, the retailer shall
not sell any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products, during such time.
121.03   APPLICATION.
A completed application on forms furnished by the State Department of Revenue
or on forms made available or approved by the Department and accompanied by the
required fee shall be filed with the Clerk. Renewal applications shall be filed
at least five days prior to the last regular meeting of the Council in June. If
a renewal application is not timely filed, and a special Council meeting is
called to act on the application, the costs of such special meeting shall be
paid by the applicant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.04   FEES.
The fee for a retail cigarette or tobacco permit shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
 
FOR PERMITS GRANTED DURING:   FEE:
July, August or September     $ 75.00
October, November or December $ 56.25
January, February or March    $ 37.50
April, May or June            $ 18.75
 
121.05   ISSUANCE AND EXPIRATION.
Upon proper application and payment of the required fee, a permit shall be
issued. Each permit issued shall describe clearly the place of business for
which it is issued and shall be nonassignable. All permits expire on June 30 of
each year. The Clerk shall submit a duplicate of any application for a permit
to the Iowa Department of Revenue within 30 days of issuance of a permit.   
(Ord. 2023-10 – Jan. 24 Supp.)
121.06   REFUNDS.
A retailer may surrender an unrevoked permit and receive a refund from the
City, except during April, May, or June, in accordance with the schedule of
refunds as provided in Section 453A.13 or 453A.47A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.07   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
No person shall sell, give, or otherwise supply any tobacco, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes to any person
under 18 years of age. The provision of this section includes prohibiting a
minor from purchasing tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products, and cigarettes from a vending machine. If a retailer or
employee of a retailer violates the provisions of this section, the Council
shall, after written notice and hearing, and in addition to the other penalties
fixed for such violation, assess the following:
   1.   For a first violation, the retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty
in the amount of $300.00. Failure to pay the civil penalty as ordered under
this subsection shall result in automatic suspension of the permit for a period
of 14 days.
   2.   For a second violation within a period of two years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 or the retailer’s permit
shall be suspended for a period of 30 days. The retailer may select its
preference in the penalty to be applied under this subsection.
   3.   For a third violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.
   4.   For a fourth violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 60 days.
   5.   For a fifth violation within a period of four years, the retailer’s
permit shall be revoked.
The Clerk shall give 10 days’ written notice to the retailer by mailing a copy
of the notice to the place of business as it appears on the application for a
permit. The notice shall state the reason for the contemplated action and the
time and place at which the retailer may appear and be heard.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2, 453A.22, and 453A.36[6])
121.08   SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED.
Except for the sale of cigarettes through a cigarette vending machine as
provided in Section 453A.36[6] of the Code of Iowa, a retailer shall not sell
or offer for sale tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products, or cigarettes through the use of a self-service display.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.36A)
121.09   PERMIT REVOCATION.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, as provided by the
Code of Iowa, the Council may also revoke a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter for a violation of Division I of Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or
any rule adopted thereunder. If a permit is revoked, a new permit shall not be
issued to the permit holder for any place of business, or to any other person
for the place of business at which the violation occurred, until one year has
expired from the date of revocation, unless good cause to the contrary is shown
to the Council. The Clerk shall report the revocation or suspension of a retail
permit to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce within
30 days of the revocation or suspension.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.22)
CHAPTER 122
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
122.01 Purpose                  122.11 Revocation of License
122.02 Definitions              122.12 Notice
122.03 License Required         122.13 Hearing
122.04 Application for License  122.14 Record and Determination
122.05 License Fees             122.15 Appeal
122.06 Bond Required            122.16 Effect of Revocation
122.07 License Issued           122.17 Rebates
122.08 Display of License       122.18 License Exemptions
122.09 License Not Transferable 122.19 Charitable and Nonprofit Organizations
122.10 Time Restriction
 
122.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to protect residents of the City against fraud,
unfair competition, and intrusion into the privacy of their homes by licensing
and regulating peddlers, solicitors, and transient merchants.
122.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Peddler” means any person carrying goods or merchandise who sells or
offers for sale for immediate delivery such goods or merchandise from house to
house or upon the public street.
   2.   “Solicitor” means any person who solicits or attempts to solicit from
house to house or upon the public street any contribution or donation or any
order for goods, services, subscriptions or merchandise to be delivered at a
future date.
   3.   “Transient merchant” means any person who engages in a temporary or
itinerant merchandising business and in the course of such business hires,
leases or occupies any building or structure whatsoever, or who operates out of
a vehicle that is parked anywhere within the City limits. Temporary association
with a local merchant, dealer, trader or auctioneer, or conduct of such
transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any
local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer does not exempt any person from
being considered a transient merchant.
122.03   LICENSE REQUIRED.
Any person engaging in peddling, soliciting or in the business of a transient
merchant in the City without first obtaining a license as herein provided is in
violation of this chapter.
122.04   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
An application in writing shall be filed with the Clerk for a license under
this chapter. Such application shall set forth the applicant’s name, permanent
and local address, and business address if any. The application shall also set
forth the applicant’s employer, if any, and the employer’s address, the nature
of the applicant’s business, the last three places of such business and the
length of time sought to be covered by the license. An application fee, set by
resolution, shall be paid at the time of filing such application to cover the
cost of investigating the facts stated therein.
122.05   LICENSE FEES.
The following license fees shall be paid to the Clerk prior to the issuance of
any license.
   1.   Solicitors. In addition to the application fee for each person actually
soliciting (principal or agent), a fee, established by resolution, for the
principal per year.
   2.   Peddlers or Transient Merchants. The lesser amount of a per diem or
annual fee. Fees are established by resolution.
122.06   BOND REQUIRED.
Before a license under this chapter is issued to a transient merchant, an
applicant shall provide to the Clerk evidence that the applicant has filed a
bond with the Secretary of State in accordance with Chapter 9C of the Code of
Iowa.
122.07   LICENSE ISSUED.
If the Clerk finds the application is completed in conformance with the
requirements of this chapter, the facts stated therein are found to be correct,
and the license fee paid, a license shall be issued immediately.
122.08   DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
Each solicitor or peddler shall keep such license in possession at all times
while doing business in the City and shall, upon the request of prospective
customers, exhibit the license as evidence of compliance with all requirements
of this chapter. Each transient merchant shall display publicly such merchant’s
license in the merchant’s place of business.
122.09   LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter are not transferable in
any situation and are to be applicable only to the person filing the
application.
122.10   TIME RESTRICTION.
All peddler’s and solicitor’s licenses shall provide that said licenses are in
force and effect only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
122.11   REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, the Clerk may
revoke any license issued pursuant to this chapter for the following reasons:
   1.   Fraudulent Statements. The licensee has made fraudulent statements in
the application for the license or in the conduct of the business.
   2.   Violation of Law. The licensee has violated this chapter or has
otherwise conducted the business in an unlawful manner.
   3.   Endangered Public Welfare, Health, or Safety. The licensee has
conducted the business in such manner as to endanger the public welfare,
safety, order, or morals.
The Clerk shall send the written notice to the licensee at the licensee’s local
address. The notice shall contain particulars of the complaints against the
licensee, the ordinance provisions or State statutes allegedly violated, and
the date, time, and place for hearing on the matter.
122.12    NOTICE.
The Clerk shall send a notice to the licensee at the licensee’s local address,
not less than ten days before the date set for a hearing on the possible
revocation of a license. Such notice shall contain particulars of the
complaints against the licensee, the ordinance provisions or State statutes
allegedly violated, and the date, time and place for hearing on the matter
122.13   HEARING.
The Clerk shall conduct a hearing at which both the licensee and any
complainants shall be present to determine the truth of the facts alleged in
the complaint and notice. Should the licensee, or authorized representative,
fail to appear without good cause, the Clerk may proceed to a determination of
the complaint.
122.14   RECORD AND DETERMINATION.
The Clerk shall make and record findings of fact and conclusions of law, and
shall revoke a license only when upon review of the entire record the Clerk
finds clear and convincing evidence of substantial violation of this chapter or
State law.
122.15   APPEAL.
If the Clerk revokes or refuses to issue a license, the Clerk shall make a part
of the record the reasons for such revocation or refusal. The licensee, or the
applicant, shall have a right to a hearing before the Council at its next
regular meeting. The Council may reverse, modify, or affirm the decision of the
Clerk by a majority vote of the Council members present and the Clerk shall
carry out the decision of the Council.
122.16   EFFECT OF REVOCATION.
Revocation of any license shall bar the licensee from being eligible for any
license under this chapter for a period of one year from the date of the
revocation.
122.17   REBATES.
Any licensee, except in the case of a revoked license, shall be entitled to a
rebate of part of the fee paid if the license is surrendered before it expires.
The amount of the rebate shall be determined by dividing the total license fee
by the number of days for which the license was issued and then multiplying the
result by the number of full days not expired. In all cases a part of the
original fee, as set by resolution, shall be retained by the City to cover
administrative costs.
122.18   LICENSE EXEMPTIONS.
The following are excluded from the application of this chapter.
   1.   Newspapers. Persons delivering, collecting for, or selling
subscriptions to newspapers.
   2.   Club Members. Members of local civic and service clubs, Boy Scout, Girl
Scout, 4-H Clubs, Future Farmers of America, and similar organizations.
   3.   Local Residents and Farmers. Local residents and farmers who offer for
sale their own products.
   4.   Students. Students representing the Humboldt School District conducting
projects sponsored by organizations recognized by the school.
   5.   Route Sales. Route delivery persons who only incidentally solicit
additional business or make special sales.
   6.   Resale or Institutional Use. Persons customarily calling on businesses
or institutions for the purposes of selling products for resale or
institutional use.
122.19   CHARITABLE AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
Authorized representatives of charitable or nonprofit organizations operating
under the provisions of Chapter 504 of the Code of Iowa desiring to solicit
money or to distribute literature are exempt from the operation of Sections
122.04 and
122.05. All such organizations are required to submit in writing to the Clerk
the name and purpose of the cause for which such activities are sought, names
and addresses of the officers and directors of the organization, the period
during which such activities are to be carried on, and whether any commissions,
fees or wages are to be charged by the solicitor and the amount thereof. If the
Clerk finds that the organization is a bona fide charity or nonprofit
organization, the Clerk shall issue, free of charge, a license containing the
above information to the applicant. In the event the Clerk denies the
exemption, the authorized representatives of the organization may appeal the
decision to the Council, as provided in Section
122.14 of this chapter.
CHAPTER 123
HOUSE MOVERS
 
123.01 House Mover Defined 123.07 Permit Issued
123.02 Permit Required     123.08 Public Safety
123.03 Application         123.09 Time Limit
123.04 Bond Required       123.10 Removal by City
123.05 Insurance Required  123.11 Protect Pavement
123.06 Permit Fee          123.12 Overhead Wires
 
123.01   HOUSE MOVER DEFINED.
A “house mover” means any person who undertakes to move a building or similar
structure upon, over or across public streets or property when the building or
structure is of such size that it requires the use of skids, jacks, dollies, or
any other specialized moving equipment.
123.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any person to engage in the activity of house mover as
herein defined without a valid permit from the City for each house, building or
similar structure to be moved.
123.03   APPLICATION.
Application for a house mover’s permit shall be made in writing to the Clerk.
The application shall include:
   1.   Name and Address. The applicant’s full name and address and, if a
corporation, the names and addresses of its principal officers.
   2.   Building Location. An accurate description of the present location and
future site of the building or similar structure to be moved.
   3.   Routing Plan. A routing plan approved by the Police Chief, street
superintendent, and public utility officials. The route approved shall be the
shortest route compatible with the greatest public convenience and safety.
123.04   BOND REQUIRED.
The applicant shall post with the Clerk a penal bond in the minimum sum of
$1,000.00 if the building sought to be moved is 20 feet or less in width or
$5,000.00 if the building exceeds 20 feet in width. Such bond shall be issued
by a surety company authorized to issue such bonds in the State. The bond shall
guarantee the permittee’s payment for any damage done to the City or to public
property, and payment of all costs incurred by the City in the course of moving
the building or structure.
123.05   INSURANCE REQUIRED.
Each applicant shall also file a certificate of insurance indicating that the
applicant is carrying public liability insurance in effect for the duration of
the permit covering the applicant and all agents and employees for the
following minimum amounts:
   1.   Bodily Injury – $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
   2.   Property Damage – $50,000.00 per accident.
123.06   PERMIT FEE.
A permit fee, set by resolution, shall be payable at the time of filing the
application with the Clerk. A separate permit shall be required for each house,
building or similar structure to be moved.
123.07   PERMIT ISSUED.
Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and insurance certificate, and
payment of the required fee, the Clerk shall issue a permit.
123.08   PUBLIC SAFETY.
At all times when a building or similar structure is in motion upon any street,
alley, sidewalk or public property, the permittee shall maintain flag persons
at the closest intersections or other possible channels of traffic to the
sides, behind and ahead of the building or structure. At all times when the
building or structure is at rest upon any street, alley, sidewalk or public
property the permittee shall maintain adequate warning signs or lights at the
intersections or channels of traffic to the sides, behind and ahead of the
building or structure.
123.09   TIME LIMIT.
No house mover shall permit or allow a building or similar structure to remain
upon any street or other public way for a period of more than 12 hours without
having first secured the written approval of the City.
123.10   REMOVAL BY CITY.
In the event any building or similar structure is found to be in violation of
Section
123.09, the City is authorized to remove such building or structure and assess
the costs thereof against the permit holder and the surety on the permit
holder’s bond.
123.11   PROTECT PAVEMENT.
It is unlawful to move any house or building of any kind over any pavement,
unless the wheels or rollers upon which the house or building is moved are at
least one inch in width for each 1,000 pounds of weight of such building. If
there is any question as to the weight of a house or building, the estimate of
the City as to such weight shall be final.
123.12   OVERHEAD WIRES.
The holder of any permit to move a building shall see that all telephone, cable
television and electric wires and poles are removed when necessary and replaced
in good order, and shall be liable for the costs of the same. The holder of the
permit for moving a building shall give 24 hours notice to the owner of any
overhead wires to remove such wires and the owner of such wires may either
remove or direct the removal and replacing of such wires and the holder of the
permit shall pay the reasonable costs thereof.
CHAPTER 124
ADULT USES
 
124.01 Definitions 124.02 Regulations
 
124.01 DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Adult amusement or entertainment” means an amusement or entertainment
which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on acts or material
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, as defined in this section, including, but not limited to,
topless or bottomless dancers, exotic dancers, strippers, male or female
impersonators or similar entertainment.
   2.   “Adult book store or gift shop” is an establishment having as a
substantial and significant portion of its stock in trade books, magazines and
other periodicals or goods and items held for sale which are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis on matters depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this
section.
   3.   “Adult hotel or motel” means a building with accommodations used for
the temporary occupancy of one or more individuals and is an establishment
wherein a substantial and significant portion of the materials presented are
distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matters depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, as defined in this section, for observation by the individuals therein.
   4.   “Adult photo studio” is an establishment which, upon payment of a fee,
provides photographic equipment and/or models for the purpose of photographing
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities, as defined herein.
   5.   “Adult theater” is a theater wherein a substantial and significant
portion of the materials presented are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on acts or material depicting, describing or relating to specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section,
for observation by the patrons therein.
   6.   “Adult uses” includes adult amusement or entertainment, adult book
store or gift shop, adult hotel or motel, adult photo studio, adult theater and
massage parlor.
   7.   “Massage parlor” is any building, room, place or establishment, where
manipulated massage or manipulated exercise is practiced for pay upon the human
body with an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, as defined herein, by anyone not a duly licensed physician, osteopath,
chiropractor, registered nurse or practical nurse operating under a physician’s
direction, physical therapist, podiatrist, registered speech pathologist and
physical or occupational therapist who treats only patients recommended by a
licensed physician and operates only under such physician’s direction, whether
with or without the use of mechanical, therapeutic or bathing devices, and
includes Turkish bath houses. The term does not include a regular licensed
hospital, medical clinic or nursing home, duly licensed beauty parlors or
barber shops.
   8.   “Specified anatomical areas” means less than completely and opaquely
covered human genitalia, pubic region, buttocks; and a female breast below a
point above the top of the areola; and human male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state — even if completely and opaquely covered.
   9.   “Specified sexual activities” means patently offensive acts,
exhibitions, representations, depictions or descriptions of:
      A.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      B.   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breast;
      C.   Intrusion, however slight, actual or simulated, by an object, of any
part of an animal’s body or any part of a person’s body into the genital or
anal openings of any person’s body;
      D.   Cunnilingus, fellatio, anilingus, masturbation, bestiality, lewd
exhibition of genitals or excretory function, actual or simulated;
      E.   Flagellation, mutilation or torture, actual or simulated, in a
sexual context.
124.02    REGULATIONS.
   1.   Location. An adult use shall not be located within 1,000 feet of
another adult use, nor shall the adult use be located within 1,000 feet of any
public or parochial school, regularly scheduled school bus stop, licensed day
care facility, church, public park, or any dwelling (one-family, two-family or
multiple dwelling) or within 1,000 feet of City Hall. The 1,000-foot
restriction shall be computed by measurement from the nearest property line of
the land used for another adult use or in the case of any regularly scheduled
school bus stop, public or parochial school, licensed day care facility,
church, public park, dwelling or City Hall, by measurement to the nearest
entrance of the building in which adult uses are to occur, using a route of
direct horizontal distance.
   2.   Concealment. All building openings, entries, windows, etc., of an adult
use shall be covered or screened in such a manner as to prevent a view into the
interior from any public or semi-public area. Advertisements, displays or other
promotional materials shall not be shown or exhibited so as to be visible to
the public from pedestrian sidewalks, walkways or from other public or semi-
public areas.
   3.   Minors. No minor shall be permitted in any establishment in which adult
uses are permitted.
   4.   Alcohol. No alcohol shall be permitted in any establishment in which
adult uses are permitted, unless such is specifically allowed pursuant to the
Code of Iowa. This prohibition applies equally to the proprietor and the
patrons of the establishment involved.
CHAPTER 135
STREET USE AND MAINTENANCE
 
135.01 Removal of Warning Devices 135.08 Burning Prohibited
135.02 Obstructing or Defacing    135.09 Excavations
135.03 Placing Debris On          135.10 Property Owner’s Responsibility for
                                  Maintenance
135.04 Playing In                 135.11 Failure to Maintain
135.05 Traveling on Barricaded    135.12 Dumping of Snow
Street or Alley
135.06 Use for Business Purposes  135.13 Driveway Culverts
135.07 Washing Vehicles
 
135.01   REMOVAL OF WARNING DEVICES.
It is unlawful for a person to willfully remove, throw down, destroy or carry
away from any street or alley any lamp, obstruction, guard or other article or
things, or extinguish any lamp or other light, erected or placed thereupon for
the purpose of guarding or enclosing unsafe or dangerous places in said street
or alley without the consent of the person in control thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.02   OBSTRUCTING OR DEFACING.
It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, deface or injure any street or alley
in any manner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.03   PLACING DEBRIS ON.
It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street or alley any
glass, glass bottle, nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter,
offal, leaves, grass or any other debris likely to be washed into the storm
sewer and clog the storm sewer, or any substance likely to injure any person,
animal or vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.369)
135.04   PLAYING IN.
It is unlawful for any person to coast, sled, or play games on streets or
alleys, except in the areas blocked off by the City for such purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.05   TRAVELING ON BARRICADED STREET OR ALLEY.
It is unlawful for any person to travel or operate any vehicle on any street or
alley temporarily closed by barricades, lights, signs, or flares placed thereon
by the authority or permission of any City official, police officer or member
of the Fire Department.
135.06   USE FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.
It is unlawful to park, store or place, temporarily or permanently, any
machinery or junk or any other goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind upon
any street or alley for the purpose of storage, exhibition, sale or offering
same for sale, without permission of the Council.
135.07   WASHING VEHICLES.
It is unlawful for any person to use any public sidewalk, street, or alley for
the purpose of washing or cleaning any automobile, truck equipment, or any
vehicle of any kind when such work is done for hire or as a business. This does
not prevent any person from washing or cleaning his or her own vehicle or
equipment when it is lawfully parked in the street or alley.
135.08   BURNING PROHIBITED.
No person shall burn any trash, leaves, rubbish, or other combustible material
in any curb and gutter or on any paved or surfaced street or alley.
135.09   EXCAVATIONS.
No person shall dig, excavate, or in any manner disturb any street, parking or
alley except in accordance with the following:
   1.   Permit Required. No excavation shall be commenced without first
obtaining a permit. A written application for such permit shall be filed with
the City and shall contain the following:
      A.   An exact description of the property, by lot and street number, in
front of or along which it is desired to excavate;
      B.   A statement of the purpose, for whom and by whom the excavation is
to be made;
      C.   The person responsible for the refilling of said excavation and
restoration of the street or alley surface; and
      D.   Date of commencement of the work and estimated completion date.
   2.   Public Convenience. Streets and alleys shall be opened in the manner
that will cause the least inconvenience to the public and admit the
uninterrupted passage of water along the gutter on the street.
   3.   Barricades, Fencing and Lighting. Adequate barricades, fencing and
warning lights meeting standards specified by the City shall be so placed as to
protect the public from hazard. Any costs incurred by the City in providing or
maintaining adequate barricades, fencing or warning lights shall be paid to the
City by the permit holder/property owner.
   4.   Bond Required. The applicant shall post with the City a penal bond in
the minimum sum of $1,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue
such bonds in the State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for
any damage done to the City or to public property, and payment of all costs
incurred by the City in the course of administration of this section. In lieu
of a surety bond, a cash deposit of $1,000.00 may be filed with the City.
   5.   Restoration of Public Property. Streets, sidewalks, alleys and other
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored to the
condition of the property prior to the commencement of the work, or in a manner
satisfactory to the City, at the expense of the permit holder/property owner.
In making any excavations for the repair or replacement of underground utility
service lines, boring beneath concrete curbs and sidewalks shall not be
permitted, and all such curbs and sidewalks shall be reconstructed per City
requirements.
   6.   Inspection. All work shall be subject to inspection by the City.
Backfill shall not be deemed completed, and no resurfacing of any improved
street or alley surface shall begin, until such backfill is inspected and
approved by the City. The permit holder/property owner shall provide the City
with notice at least 24 hours prior to the time when inspection of backfill is
desired.
   7.   Completion by the City. Should any excavation in any street or alley be
discontinued or left open and unfinished for a period of 24 hours after the
approved completion date, or in the event the work is improperly done, the City
has the right to finish or correct the excavation work and charge any expenses
for such work to the permit holder/property owner.
   8.   Responsibility for Costs. All costs and expenses incident to the
excavation shall be borne by the permit holder and/or property owner. The
permit holder and owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by such excavation.
   9.   Notification. At least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the
excavation, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, the person
performing the excavation shall contact the Statewide Notification Center and
provide the center with the information required under Section 480.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
135.10   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall maintain all property outside the lot and
property lines and inside the curb lines upon public streets and shall keep
such area in a safe condition, free from nuisances, obstructions, and hazards.
In the absence of a curb, such property shall extend from the property line to
that portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes. The
abutting property owner shall not be required to remove diseased trees or dead
wood on the publicly owned property or right-of-way. Maintenance includes, but
is not limited to, timely mowing, trimming trees and shrubs, and picking up
litter and debris. The abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused
by failure to maintain the publicly owned property or right-of-way.† 6
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: See also Section
6 136.04 relating to property owner’s responsibility for maintenance of
  sidewalks.
135.11   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
If the abutting property owner does not perform an action required under the
above section within a reasonable time, the City may perform the required
action and assess the cost against the abutting property for collection in the
same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2e])
135.12   DUMPING OF SNOW.
It is unlawful for any person to throw, push, or place or cause to be thrown,
pushed or placed, any ice or snow from private property, sidewalks, or
driveways onto the traveled way of a street or alley so as to obstruct gutters,
or impede the passage of vehicles upon the street or alley or to create a
hazardous condition therein; except where, in the cleaning of large commercial
drives in the business district it is absolutely necessary to move the snow
onto the street or alley temporarily, such accumulation shall be removed
promptly by the property owner or agent. Arrangements for the prompt removal of
such accumulations shall be made prior to moving the snow.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.13   DRIVEWAY CULVERTS.
The property owner shall, at the owner’s expense, install any culvert deemed
necessary under any driveway or any other access to the owner’s property, and
before installing a culvert, permission must first be obtained from the City.
In the event repairs are needed at any time with respect to culverts, it shall
be the responsibility of the property owner to make such repairs, and, in the
event the owner fails to do so, the City shall have the right to make the
repairs. If the property owner fails to reimburse the City for the cost of said
repairs, the cost shall be certified to the County Treasurer and specially
assessed against the property as by law provided.
CHAPTER 136
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
136.01 Purpose                               136.11 Interference with Sidewalk
                                             Improvements
136.02 Definitions                           136.12 Awnings
136.03 Removal of Snow, Ice, and             136.13 Encroaching Steps
Accumulations
136.04 Property Owner’s Responsibility for 136.14 Openings and Enclosures
Maintenance
136.05 City May Order Repairs                136.15 Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
136.06 Sidewalk Construction Ordered         136.16 Defacing
136.07 Permit Required                       136.17 Debris on Sidewalks
136.08 Sidewalk Standards                    136.18 Merchandise Display
136.09 Barricades and Warning Lights         136.19 Sales Stands
136.10 Failure to Repair or Barricade        136.20 Canopy Lighting Charges
 
136.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to enhance safe passage by citizens on
sidewalks, to place the responsibility for the maintenance, repair,
replacement, or reconstruction of sidewalks upon the abutting property owner
and to minimize the liability of the City.
136.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Broom finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by sweeping the
sidewalk when it is hardening.
   2.   “Established grade” means that grade established by the City for the
particular area in which a sidewalk is to be constructed.
   3.   “One-course construction” means that the full thickness of the concrete
is placed at one time, using the same mixture throughout.
   4.   “Owner” means the person owning the fee title to property abutting any
sidewalk and includes any contract purchaser for purposes of notification
required herein. For all other purposes, “owner” includes the lessee, if any.
   5.   “Portland cement” means any type of cement except bituminous cement.
   6.   “Sidewalk” means all permanent public walks in business, residential or
suburban areas.
   7.   “Sidewalk improvements” means the construction, reconstruction, repair,
replacement, or removal, of a public sidewalk and/or the excavating, filling or
depositing of material in the public right-of-way in connection therewith.
   8.   “Wood float finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by smoothing
the surface of the sidewalk with a wooden trowel.
136.03   REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, AND ACCUMULATIONS.
The abutting property owner shall remove snow, ice, and accumulations promptly
from sidewalks. If a property owner does not remove snow, ice, or accumulations
within 12 hours in commercial zoning districts or within 24 hours in
residential zoning districts, the City may do so and assess the costs against
the property owner for collection in the same manner as a property tax. The
abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused by failure to remove
snow, ice, and accumulations promptly from the sidewalk. The City shall serve
notice of non-compliance by first class mail or by posting such notice
conspicuously on the property only one time during a snow season.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2b & e])
136.04   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall repair, replace, or reconstruct, or cause to
be repaired, replaced, or reconstructed, all broken or defective sidewalks and
maintain in a safe and hazard-free condition any sidewalk outside the lot and
property lines and inside the curb lines or, in the absence of a curb, any
sidewalk between the property line and that portion of the public street used
or improved for vehicular purposes. The abutting property owner may be liable
for damages caused by failure to maintain the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
136.05   CITY MAY ORDER REPAIRS.
If the abutting property owner does not maintain sidewalks as required, the
Council may serve notice on such owner, by certified mail, requiring the owner
to repair, replace or reconstruct sidewalks within a reasonable time and if
such action is not completed within the time stated in the notice, the Council
may require the work to be done and assess the costs against the abutting
property for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2d & e])
136.06   SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION ORDERED.
The Council may order the construction of permanent sidewalks upon any street
or court in the City and may specially assess the cost of such improvement to
abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 384 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.38)
136.07   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall remove, reconstruct or install a sidewalk unless such person
has obtained a permit from the City and has agreed in writing that said
removal, reconstruction or installation will comply with all ordinances and
requirements of the City for such work. A written application for such permit
shall be filed with the City. The permit shall be valid for 90 days from the
date of issuance.
136.08   SIDEWALK STANDARDS.
Sidewalks repaired, replaced, or constructed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be of the following construction and meet the following
standards:
   1.   Cement. Portland cement shall be the only cement used in the
construction and repair of sidewalks.
   2.   Construction. Sidewalks shall be of one-course construction.
   3.   Sidewalk Base. Concrete may be placed directly on compact and well-
drained soil. Where soil is not well drained, a three-inch sub-base of compact,
clean, coarse gravel or sand shall be laid. The adequacy of the soil drainage
is to be determined by the City.
   4.   Sidewalk Bed. The sidewalk bed shall be so graded that the constructed
sidewalk will be at established grade.
   5.   Length, Width and Depth. Length, width and depth requirements are as
follows:
      A.   Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide and four
inches thick, and each section shall be no more than six feet in length.
      B.   Business District sidewalks shall extend from the property line to
the curb. Each section shall be four inches thick and no more than six feet in
length.
      C.   Driveway areas shall be not less than six inches in thickness.
   6.   Location. Residential sidewalks shall be located with the inner edge
(edge nearest the abutting private property) two feet of the property line,
unless the Council establishes a different distance due to special
circumstances.
   7.   Grade. Curb tops shall be on level with the centerline of the street,
which is the established grade.
   8.   Elevations. The street edge of a sidewalk shall be at an elevation even
with the curb at the curb or not less than one-half inch above the curb for
each foot between the curb and the sidewalk.
   9.   Slope. All sidewalks shall slope one-fourth inch per foot toward the
curb.
   10.   Finish. All sidewalks shall be finished with a broom finish or wood
float finish.
   11.   Curb Ramps and Sloped Areas for Persons with Disabilities. If a
street, road, or highway is newly built or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped
area shall be constructed or installed at each intersection of the street,
road, or highway with a sidewalk or path. If a sidewalk or path is newly built
or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped area shall be constructed or installed
at each intersection of the sidewalk or path with a street, highway, or road.
Curb ramps and sloped areas that are required pursuant to this subsection shall
be constructed or installed in compliance with applicable federal requirements
adopted in accordance with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act,
including (but not limited to) the guidelines issued by the Federal
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 216C.9)
Any sidewalk constructed contrary to the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to removal and reconstruction. The Council shall serve notice on the
abutting property owner requiring the owner to remove and reconstruct the
sidewalk within a reasonable time and if such action is not completed within
the time stated in the notice, the Council may require the work to be done and
assess the costs against the abutting property for collection in the same
manner as a property tax.
136.09   BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
Whenever any material of any kind is deposited on any street, avenue, highway,
passageway or alley when sidewalk improvements are being made or when any
sidewalk is in a dangerous condition, it shall be the duty of all persons
having an interest therein, either as the contractor or the owner, agent, or
lessee of the property in front of or along which such material may be
deposited, or such dangerous condition exists, to put in conspicuous places at
each end of such sidewalk and at each end of any pile of material deposited in
the street, a sufficient number of approved warning lights or flares, and to
keep them lighted during the entire night and to erect sufficient barricades
both at night and in the daytime to secure the same. The party or parties using
the street for any of the purposes specified in this chapter shall be liable
for all injuries or damage to persons or property arising from any wrongful act
or negligence of the party or parties, or their agents or employees or for any
misuse of the privileges conferred by this chapter or of any failure to comply
with provisions hereof.
136.10   FAILURE TO REPAIR OR BARRICADE.
It is the duty of the owner of the property abutting the sidewalk, or the
owner’s contractor or agent, to notify the City immediately in the event of
failure or inability to make necessary sidewalk improvements or to install or
erect necessary barricades as required by this chapter.
136.11   INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
No person shall knowingly or willfully drive any vehicle upon any portion of
any sidewalk or approach thereto while in the process of being improved or upon
any portion of any completed sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove or
destroy any part or all of any sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove,
destroy, mar or deface any sidewalk at any time or destroy, mar, remove or
deface any notice provided by this chapter.
136.12   AWNINGS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any awning over any sidewalk
unless all parts of the awning are elevated at least eight feet above the
surface of the sidewalk and the roof or covering is made of duck, canvas or
other suitable material supported by iron frames or brackets securely fastened
to the building, without any posts or other device that will obstruct the
sidewalk or hinder or interfere with the free passage of pedestrians.
136.13   ENCROACHING STEPS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any stairs or steps to any
building upon any part of any sidewalk without permission by resolution of the
Council.
136.14   OPENINGS AND ENCLOSURES.
It is unlawful for a person to:
   1.   Stairs and Railings. Construct or build a stairway or passageway to any
cellar or basement by occupying any part of the sidewalk, or to enclose any
portion of a sidewalk with a railing without permission by resolution of the
Council.
   2.   Openings. Keep open any cellar door, grating, or cover to any vault on
any sidewalk except while in actual use with adequate guards to protect the
public.
   3.   Protect Openings. Neglect to properly protect or barricade all openings
on or within six feet of any sidewalk.
136.15   FIRES OR FUEL ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to make a fire of any kind on any sidewalk or to
place or allow any fuel to remain upon any sidewalk.
136.16   DEFACING.
It is unlawful for a person to scatter or place any paste, paint, or writing on
any sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
136.17   DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to throw or deposit on any sidewalk any glass,
nails, glass bottle, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, offal,
or any other debris, or any substance likely to injure any person, animal, or
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
136.18   MERCHANDISE DISPLAY.
It is unlawful for a person to place upon or above any sidewalk, any goods or
merchandise for sale or for display in such a manner as to interfere with the
free and uninterrupted passage of pedestrians on the sidewalk; in no case shall
more than three feet of the sidewalk next to the building be occupied for such
purposes.
136.19   SALES STANDS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or keep any vending machine or stand for
the sale of fruit, vegetables or other substances or commodities on any
sidewalk without first obtaining a written permit from the Council.
136.20    CANOPY LIGHTING CHARGE.
(Repealed by Ordinance No. 2020-02 - Oct. 20 Supp.)
CHAPTER 137
VACATION AND DISPOSAL OF STREETS
 
137.01 Power to Vacate                137.04 Findings Required
137.02 Planning and Zoning Commission 137.05 Disposal of Vacated Streets or
                                      Alleys
137.03 Notice of Vacation Hearing     137.06 Disposal by Gift Limited
 
137.01   POWER TO VACATE.
When, in the judgment of the Council, it would be in the best interest of the
City to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds, the
Council may do so by ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2a])
137.02   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
Any proposal to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds
shall be referred by the Council to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its
study and recommendation prior to further consideration by the Council. The
Commission shall submit a written report including recommendations to the
Council within 30 days after the date the proposed vacation is referred to the
Commission.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
137.03   NOTICE OF VACATION HEARING.
The Council shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing of the time
at which the proposal to vacate shall be considered.
137.04   FINDINGS REQUIRED.
No street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds shall be vacated
unless the Council finds that:
   1.   Public Use. The street, alley, portion thereof, or any public ground
proposed to be vacated is not needed for the use of the public, and therefore,
its maintenance at public expense is no longer justified.
   2.   Abutting Property. The proposed vacation will not deny owners of
property abutting on the street or alley reasonable access to their property.
137.05   DISPOSAL OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS.
When in the judgment of the Council it would be in the best interest of the
City to dispose of a vacated street or alley, portion thereof or public ground,
the Council may do so in accordance with the provisions of Section 364.7, Code
of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7)
137.06   DISPOSAL BY GIFT LIMITED.
The City may not dispose of real property by gift except to a governmental body
for a public purpose or to a fair.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 174.15[2] & 364.7[3])
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
23            1879    370           1968
34            1883    422           1977
35            1883    476           1983
36            1883    477           1983
37            1883    96-03         1996
41            1883    97-03         1997
58            1893    97-03         1997
94            1904    99-07         1999
113           1914    99-07         1999
121           1916    2015-01       6-1-15
124           1916    2015-04       7-20-15
125           1916    2015-05       7-20-15
134           1918
146           1922
157           1926
187           1933
200           1936
208           1938
209           1939
220           1941
239           1947
251           1949
256           1950
276           1952
284           1954
292           1955
296           1956
299           1957
311           1959
321           1961
326           1962
338           1963
344           1964
349           1964
 
CHAPTER 138
STREET GRADES
 
138.01 Established Grades 138.02 Record Maintained
 
138.01   ESTABLISHED GRADES.
The grades of all streets, alleys and sidewalks, which have been heretofore
established by ordinance, are hereby confirmed, ratified, and established as
official grades.
138.02   RECORD MAINTAINED.
The Clerk shall maintain a record of all established grades and furnish
information concerning such grades upon request.
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street and/or sidewalk grades and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street and/or sidewalk grades and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
32            1881    347           1964
39            1883    403           1974
80            1900
93            1903
101           1906
102           1906
135           1918
158           1927
213           1939
218           1940
223           1941
225           1941
227           1942
228           1942
257           1950
277           1953
279           1953
291           1955
300           1957
304           1958
312           1959
317           1959
335           1963
 
CHAPTER 139
NAMING OF STREETS
 
139.01 Naming New Streets      139.04 Official Street Name Map
139.02 Changing Name of Street 139.05 Revision of Street Name Map
139.03 Recording Street Names
 
139.01   NAMING NEW STREETS.
New streets shall be assigned names in accordance with the following:
   1.   Extension of Existing Street. Streets added to the City that are
natural extensions of existing streets shall be assigned the name of the
existing street.
   2.   Resolution. All street names, except streets named as a part of a
subdivision or platting procedure, shall be named by resolution.
   3.   Planning and Zoning Commission. Proposed street names shall be referred
to the Planning and Zoning Commission for review and recommendation.
139.02   CHANGING NAME OF STREET.
The Council may, by resolution, change the name of a street.
139.03   RECORDING STREET NAMES.
Following official action naming or changing the name of a street, the Clerk
shall file a copy thereof with the County Recorder, County Auditor and County
Assessor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.26)
139.04   OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP.
Streets within the City are named as shown on the Official Street Name Map,
which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
The Official Street Name Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor,
and bearing the seal of the City under the following words: “This is to certify
that this is the Official Street Name Map referred to in Section
139.04 of the Code of Ordinances of Humboldt, Iowa.”
139.05   REVISION OF STREET NAME MAP.
If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in
street names, such changes shall be entered on the Official Street Name Map
promptly after the change has been approved by the Council with an entry on the
Official Street Name Map as follows: “On (date), by official action of the City
Council, the following changes were made in the Official Street Name Map:
(brief description),” which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by
the Clerk.
CHAPTER 140
CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES
 
140.01 Exercise of Police Power 140.05 Unlawful Use of Controlled Access
                                Facility
140.02 Definition               140.06 Permitted Access Points on Hwy 169
140.03 Right of Access Limited  140.07 Permitted Access on Iowa No. 3
140.04 Access Controls Imposed
 
140.01   EXERCISE OF POLICE POWER.
This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of the City under
Chapter 306A, Code of Iowa, for the preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and for the promotion of the general welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.1)
140.02   DEFINITION.
The term “controlled access facility” means a highway or street especially
designed for through traffic, and over, from or to which owners or occupants of
abutting land or other persons have no right or easement or only a controlled
right or easement of access, light, air, or view by reason of the fact that
their property abuts upon such controlled access facility or for any other
reason.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.2)
140.03   RIGHT OF ACCESS LIMITED.
No person has any right of ingress or egress to or from abutting lands onto or
across any controlled access facility, except at such designated points at
which access is permitted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.4)
140.04   ACCESS CONTROLS IMPOSED.
There are hereby fixed and established controlled access facilities within the
City, described as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.3)
   1.   Project No. FN-117. On the Primary Road System extension improvement,
Project No. FN-117, Primary Road No. U.S. 169, within the City, described as
follows:
      Commencing at the south corporation line (Station 235+58.2); thence
northerly approximately 2600.8 feet on right side to Station 261+59.0; thence
northerly on both sides 5,966.0 feet to the north corporation line (Station
321+25.0) regulating access to and from abutting properties along said highway
all in accordance with the plans for such improvement identified as Project No.
FN-117, on file in the office of the Clerk.
   2.   Iowa Highway No. 3. On the Primary Road System extension of Iowa
Highway No. 3 within the City, as the same was relocated through the City on
October 15, 1955, and no lot or parcel abutting upon said highway extension
shall be established or subdivided in such a manner that said lot or parcel
thereof has egress or ingress only upon said highway.
140.05   UNLAWFUL USE OF CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITY.
It is unlawful for any person to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.3 and 321.366)
   1.   Cross Dividing Line. Drive a vehicle over, upon, or across any curb,
central dividing section, or other separation or dividing line on such
controlled access facilities.
   2.   Turns. Make a left turn or a semicircular or U-turn except through an
opening provided for that purpose in the dividing curb section, separation, or
line.
   3.   Use of Lanes. Drive any vehicle except in the proper lane provided for
that purpose and in the proper direction and to the right of the central
dividing curb, separation, section, or line.
   4.   Enter Facility. Drive any vehicle into the controlled access facility
from a local service road except through an opening provided for that purpose
in the dividing curb or dividing section or dividing line that separates such
service road from the controlled access facility property.
140.06    PERMITTED ACCESS POINTS ON U.S. 169.
Points of access are hereby permitted as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.4)
STATION SIDE OF STREET WIDTH USE OF DRIVE OR ENTRANCE
STATION SIDE OF STREET WIDTH      USE OF DRIVE OR ENTRANCE
251+00  Right          130'       Street
259+58  Right          33'        Commercial
261+62  Left and Right 66'        Street
263+00  Right          51'        Commercial
263+07  Left           50'        Commercial
269+30  Left           57'        Street
271+59  Left           37' double Residential
272+48  Right          55'        Street
272+54  Left           18'        Residential
274+36  Left           41'        Street
275+25  Right          57'        Street
276+34  Left           22'        Residential
287+00  Right          40'        State Fish Hatchery
289+50  Right          72'        Street
289+55  Left           18'        State Fish Hatchery
291+15  Right          24'        Commercial
292+00  Right          34'        Commercial
293+00  Right          34'        Commercial
293+66  Right          48'        Commercial
294+25  Left           34'        Commercial
294+32  Right          34'        Commercial
295+19  Left           34'        Commercial
295+72  Right          34'        Commercial
296+40  Right          73'        Commercial
296+72  Left           30'        Commercial
297+05  Right          40'        Commercial
297+83  Right and Left 40'        Street
299+12  Right          24'        Commercial
299+69  Left           24'        Commercial
300+30  Left           18'        Commercial and Residential
300+84  Left           18'        Commercial
301+91  Left and Right 40'        Street
302+88  Right          33'        Commercial
303+02  Left           18'        Residential
303+39  Right          30'        Commercial
304+11  Right          35'        Commercial
304+24  Left           30'        Commercial
304+92  Right          36'        Commercial
304+92  Left           24'        Commercial
306+07  Left and Right 40'        Street
307+25  Right          18'        Commercial
307+32  Left           36'        Commercial
308+10  Right          24'        Residential
308+95  Left           30'        Commercial
309+55  Right          24'        Residential
310+27  Left and Right 40'        Street
310+70  Right          30'        Commercial
311+54  Left           24'        Commercial
311+91  Right          36'        Commercial
312+84  Right          34'        Commercial
313+75  Left           24'        Commercial
314+46  Left           40'        Street
314+55  Right          36'        Commercial
315+11  Right          36'        Commercial
315+23  Left           36'        Commercial
316+31  Right          40'        Commercial
316+31  Left           40'        Commercial
317+20  Left and Right            Iowa No. 3
318+41  Right          43'        Commercial
319+00  Left           36'        Commercial
319+14  Right          57'        Commercial
 
140.07 PERMITTED ACCESS ON IOWA No. 3.
Access restrictions on Iowa No. 3 do not apply to any lot or parcel thereof
included in any “C” Commercial District as defined and established by the
Zoning Ordinance.
CHAPTER 141
MINIMUM ROAD MAINTENANCE
 
141.01 Purpose                           141.05 Landowner Request
141.02 Scope of Minimum Maintenance      141.06 Designated Streets
Services
141.03 Services Not Provided by the City 141.07 Improvements To Minimum
                                         Maintenance Streets
141.04 Snow Removal
 
141.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and provide for rules and
regulations governing the maintenance of established roadways within the City
which have not been accepted by the Council and do not meet existing Code
specifications.
141.02    SCOPE OF MINIMUM MAINTENANCE SERVICES.
The services described in this chapter shall be provided for those streets
designated as minimum maintenance streets by this chapter.
141.03    SERVICES NOT PROVIDED BY THE CITY.
The City shall not provide any of the following services for those streets
designated as receiving minimum maintenance hereunder:
   1.   Dust control on the surface.
   2.   Mowing or weed control in the right-of-way.
   3.   Grading and profiling of the rock surface.
   4.   Subgrade repair or stabilization.
   5.   Addition of road stone to the surface.
141.04    SNOW REMOVAL.
The Street Department shall schedule, within their snow removal procedures, the
timely removal of snow from those streets designated as receiving minimum
maintenance. This priority for snow removal shall be consistent with the snow
removal policy as it relates to commercial streets, residential streets that
are constructed in accordance with Code specifications and minimum maintenance
streets. For minimum maintenance streets to receive snow removal services, the
street must be a bladed or level surface void of potholes as specified by the
Street Superintendent, sufficient to allow for the passage of the City
equipment to safely remove the snow without harm to such equipment.
141.05    LANDOWNER REQUEST.
Upon request of any party, the City will, at the expense of the requester,
spread additional road stone on a minimum maintenance road as necessary to
bring it to a standard suitable to allow snow removal pursuant to Section
141.04 above. To initiate such work, the requesting party shall fill out a
request form with the City Clerk designating the road, or portion thereof,
sought to be improved. The request shall be reviewed by the City Street
Department to determine the cost of the rock necessary. Said cost must be
prepaid in advance by the requester, and the City shall have no responsibility
to allocate or assess that cost among landowners on the road. The City will
provide the labor and equipment to apply the rock at no cost.
141.06    DESIGNATED STREETS.
The following streets and roadways within the City are hereby designated as
receiving minimum maintenance:
   1.   Thirteenth Avenue South, from South Taft Street to the cul-de-sac
(north end).
   2.   Twentieth Street from the north lot line of Lots 72-73, West River
Acres, Plat III, to Iowa Highway 3.
   3.   Platted Twenty-Third Street from north lot line of Lots 54-55, West
River Acres, Plat III, to Iowa Highway 3.
141.07    IMPROVEMENTS TO MINIMUM MAINTENANCE STREETS.
At such time as those streets designated herein are improved to the standards
as stipulated in
Chapter 166, and specifically Section
166.10, and accepted by the Council or until such time that those streets have
been improved to an extent which has caused their acceptance by resolution of
the Council, the City shall assume full responsibility for repair and
maintenance.
CHAPTER 145
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
145.01 Title                         145.10 Unsafe Structures
145.02 Scope                         145.11 Emergency Measures
145.03 Intent                        145.12 Demolition
145.04 Severability                  145.13 Variances
145.05 Applicability                 145.14 General Maintenance Requirements
145.06 Administration                145.15 Exterior Property Areas
145.07 Duties and Powers of the Code 145.16 Exterior Structure
Official
145.08 Violations                    145.17 Handrails and Guardrails
145.09 Notices and Orders            145.18 Rubbish and Garbage
 
145.01 TITLE.
These regulations shall be known as the Property Maintenance Code of the City
of Humboldt, Iowa, hereinafter referred to as “this Code.”
145.02    SCOPE.
The provisions of this Code shall apply to all existing residential and
nonresidential structures and all existing premises in the City of Humboldt,
and constitute minimum maintenance requirements and standards for such premises
and structures. This Code shall be deemed to be the “Housing Code” of the City
of Humboldt for purposes of Iowa Code §657A.10A(3)(d).
145.03    INTENT.
This Code shall be construed to secure its expressed intent, which is to ensure
public health, safety and welfare in so far as they are affected by the
continued occupancy and maintenance of structures and premises. Existing
structures and premises that do not comply with these provisions shall be
altered or repaired to provide a minimum level of health and safety as required
herein.
145.04    SEVERABILITY.
If a section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code is, for any
reason, held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Code.
145.05    APPLICABILITY.
   1.   General. The provisions of this Code shall apply to all matters
affecting or relating to structures and premises, as set forth in Section
145.02. Where, in a specific case, different sections of this Code specify
different requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. All structures in
violation of the provisions of this Code are hereby declared to be public
nuisances and shall be abated by repair or demolition in accordance with the
procedures specified herein.
   2.   Maintenance. Except as otherwise specified herein, the owner shall be
responsible for the maintenance of buildings, structures and premises. For
purposes of this Code, the term “Owner” shall mean the person or entity having
legal title to the property in question according to the records of the County
Auditor, including the Conservator or other legal representative of any such
person or entity, and the personal representative of a deceased person. In the
case of a property subject to a land sale contract, the contract buyer shall be
deemed to be the owner for purposes of this Code.
   3.   Existing Remedies. The provisions in this Code shall not be construed
to abolish or impair any other remedies available to the jurisdiction or its
officers or agencies relating to the removal or demolition of any structure
which is abandoned, a nuisance or otherwise dangerous or unsafe.
   4.   Workmanship. Repairs, maintenance work, alterations or installations
which are caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this Code shall
be executed and installed in a workmanlike manner and installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s installation instructions.
   5.   Historic Buildings. The provisions of this Code shall not be mandatory
for existing buildings or structures designated as historic buildings in the
discretion of the Code Official.
   6.   Requirements Not Covered by Code. Requirements necessary for the
strength, stability or proper maintenance of an existing structure, or for the
public safety, health and general welfare, not specifically covered by this
Code, shall be determined by the Code Official.
145.06    ADMINISTRATION.
   1.   General. The Humboldt City Administrator shall be designated as the
“Code Official” for the purposes of this Code.
   2.   Deputies. In accordance with the prescribed procedures of the City, the
Code Official shall have the authority to retain such engineers, inspectors or
other necessary technical personnel as may be necessary to carry out the
requirements of this Code.
   3.   Liability. The Code Official or any other employee or agent charged
with the enforcement of this Code, while acting for the jurisdiction, shall not
thereby be rendered liable personally, and is hereby relieved from all personal
liability for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of an act
required or permitted in the discharge of their official duties. Any suit
instituted against any person because of an act performed by that person in the
lawful and good faith discharge of duties and under the provisions of this Code
shall be defended by the legal representative of the jurisdiction until the
final termination of the proceedings.
145.07    DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE CODE OFFICIAL.
   1.   General. The Code Official shall have primary responsibility for
enforcing the provisions of this Code.
   2.   Rule-making Authority. The Code Official shall have authority as
necessary in the interest of public health, safety and general welfare, to
interpret and implement the provisions of this Code; to secure the intent
thereof; and to designate requirements applicable because of local climatic or
other conditions.
   3.   Inspections. The Code Official shall cause to be examined every
structure or premises reported to be in violation of this Code, or otherwise
brought to the attention of the Code Official. The Code Official is authorized
to engage such experts as the Code Official deems necessary to examine and
report on any structure believed to be in violation of this Code. If any such
structure or premises is found to be in violation of the provisions of this
Code, the Code Official shall give notice to the owner thereof in accordance
with Section
145.09.
   4.   Notices and Orders. The Code Official shall issue all necessary notices
or orders to ensure compliance with this Code.
   5.   Records. The City Clerk shall keep records of all business and
activities specified by the provisions of this Code. Such records shall be
retained in the official records as long as the building or structure to which
such records relate remains in existence, unless otherwise provided for by
other regulations.
145.08    VIOLATIONS.
   1.   Unlawful Acts. It is unlawful for the owner of any premises or
structure to be in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of
this Code.
   2.   Prosecution of Violation. Any person failing to comply with a notice of
violation or order served in accordance with Section
145.09 shall be deemed guilty of a municipal infraction. If the notice of
violation is not complied with, the Code Official shall institute the
appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such
violation, or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful occupancy
of the structure in violation of the provisions of this Code or of any order or
direction made pursuant thereto.
   3.   Violation Penalties. Any person who shall violate a provision of this
Code, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof,
shall be prosecuted within the limits provided by State and local laws for
municipal infractions. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has
been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
   4.   Abatement of Violation. The imposition of the penalties herein
prescribed shall not preclude the jurisdiction from instituting appropriate
legal action to restrain, correct or abate a violation, or to prevent illegal
occupancy of a building, structure or premises, or to stop an illegal act,
conduct, or utilization of the building, structure or premises.
   5.   Direct Abatement by City. In the event a violation of this chapter
continues unabated after notice to the owner as provided herein, in addition to
any other remedies, the City may proceed to perform the necessary action to
correct said violation(s). In such event, the Clerk shall notify the property
owner of the total expenses incurred by the City, and if the amount shown in
said notice is not paid within 30 days, the Clerk shall certify those costs to
the County Treasurer and such costs shall then be allocated with, and in the
same manner as, general property taxes.
145.09    NOTICES AND ORDERS.
   1.   Notice to Person Responsible. Whenever the Code Official determines
that there has been a violation of this Code or has grounds to believe that a
violation has occurred, notice shall be given in the manner prescribed herein
to the owner of the subject premises. If the Code Official has knowledge of an
occupant of the subject premises other than the owner, a copy of said notice
shall be sent to same.
   2.   Form. The notice shall:
      A.   Be in writing.
      B.   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification.
      C.   Include a statement of the violation or violations hereunder.
      D.   Include an order allowing a reasonable time to make the repairs and
improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into compliance
with the provisions of this Code.
   3.   Method of Service. The notice shall be deemed to be properly served if
a copy thereof is:
      A.   Delivered personally; or
      B.   Sent by certified mail (return receipt requested) to the last known
address; and
      C.   By posting a copy thereof in a conspicuous place on or about the
structure that is the subject of such notice.
   4.   Transfer of Ownership. It is unlawful for the owner of any dwelling
unit or structure upon whom a notice of violation has been served to sell,
transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of such dwelling unit or structure to
another until the provisions of the notice of violation have been complied
with, or until such owner shall first furnish the grantee, transferee, or
lessee a true copy of any compliance order or notice of violation issued by the
Code Official and shall furnish to the Code Official a signed and notarized
statement from the grantee, transferee, or lessee, acknowledging the receipt of
such notice of violation and fully accepting the responsibility without
condition for making the corrections or repairs required by such notice of
violation.
145.10    UNSAFE STRUCTURES.
   1.   General. When a structure is found by the Code Official to be unsafe,
or when a structure is found unfit for human occupancy, such structure may be
condemned pursuant to the provisions of this Code.
   2.   Unsafe Structures. An unsafe structure is one that is found to be
dangerous to the life, health, property or safety of the public or the
occupants of the structure because such structure is so damaged, decayed,
dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of such faulty construction or unstable
foundation, that partial or complete collapse is likely.
   3.   Structure Unfit for Human Occupancy. A structure is unfit for human
occupancy whenever the Code Official finds that such structure is unsafe, or
because of the degree to which the structure is in disrepair or lacks
maintenance, is unsanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains filth and
contamination, or lacks ventilation, electricity, sanitary or heating
facilities or other essential utility services, or because the location of the
structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants of the structure or to the
public.
   4.   Closing of Vacant Structures. If the structure is vacant and unfit for
human habitation and occupancy, but does not appear to be in danger of
structural collapse, the Code Official is authorized to post a placard of
condemnation on the premises and order the structure closed up so as not to be
an attractive nuisance. Upon failure of the owner to close up the premises
within the time specified in the order, the Code Official shall cause the
premises to be closed and secured through any available public agency or by
contract or arrangement by private persons and the cost thereof shall be
charged against the real estate upon which the structure is located and shall
be a lien upon such real estate and may be collected by any other legal
resource.
   5.   Notice. Whenever the Code Official has condemned a structure or
equipment under the provisions of this section, notice shall be posted in a
conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such notice and served
on the owner or the person or persons responsible for the structure or
equipment in accordance with Section
145.09.
   6.   Placarding. Upon failure of the owner or person responsible to comply
with the notice provisions within the time given, the Code Official shall post
on the premises a placard bearing the word “Condemned” and a statement of the
penalties provided for occupying the premises, operating the equipment or
removing the placard. The Code Official shall remove the condemnation placard
whenever the defect or defects upon which the condemnation and placarding
action were based have been eliminated. Any person who defaces or removes a
condemnation placard without the approval of the Code Official shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
   7.   Prohibited Occupancy. Any occupied structure condemned and placarded by
the Code Official shall be vacated as ordered by the Code Official. Any person
who shall occupy a placarded premises and any owner or any person responsible
for the premises who shall let anyone occupy a placarded premises or operate
placarded equipment shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
145.11    EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   1.   Imminent Danger. When, in the opinion of the Code Official, there is
imminent danger of failure or collapse of a building or structure which
endangers life, or when any structure or part of a structure has fallen and
life is endangered by the occupation of the structure, or when there is actual
or potential danger to the building occupants or those in the proximity of any
structure because of explosives, explosive fumes or vapors or the presence of
toxic fumes, gases or materials, or operation of defective or dangerous
equipment, the Code Official is hereby authorized and empowered to order and
require the occupants to vacate the premises forthwith. The Code Official shall
cause to be posted at each entrance to such structure a notice reading as
follows: “This Structure Is Unsafe and Its Occupancy Has Been Prohibited by the
City of Humboldt.” It is unlawful for any person to enter such structure
without the permission of the City.
   2.   Temporary Safeguards. Notwithstanding other provisions of this Code,
whenever, in the opinion of the Code Official, there is imminent danger due to
an unsafe condition, the Code Official shall order the necessary work to be
done, including the boarding up of openings, to render such structure
temporarily safe whether or not the legal procedure herein described has been
instituted; and shall cause such other action to be taken as the Code Official
deems necessary to meet such emergency.
   3.   Closing Streets. When necessary for public safety, the Code Official
shall temporarily close structures, or order the authority having jurisdiction
to close sidewalks, streets, public ways and places adjacent to unsafe
structures, and prohibit the same from being utilized.
   4.   Emergency Repairs. For the purposes of this section, the Code Official
shall employ the necessary labor and materials to perform the required work as
expeditiously as possible. Costs incurred in the performance of emergency work
shall be paid by the jurisdiction. The legal counsel of the jurisdiction shall
institute appropriate action against the owner of the premises where the unsafe
structure is or was located for the recovery of such costs.
145.12    DEMOLITION.
   1.   General. The Code Official shall order the owner of any premises upon
which is located any structure, which in the Code Official’s judgment is so
old, dilapidated or has become so out of repair as to be dangerous, unsafe,
unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human habitation or occupancy, and such that
it is unreasonable to repair the structure, to demolish and remove such
structure; or if such structure is capable of being made safe by repairs, to
repair and make safe and sanitary or to demolish and remove at the owner’s
option; or where there has been a cessation of normal construction of any
structure for a period of more than two years, to demolish and remove such
structure.
   2.   Notice and Orders. All notices and orders shall comply with Section
145.09.
   3.   Failure to Comply. If the owner of a premises fails to comply with a
demolition order within the time prescribed, the Code Official shall cause the
structure to be demolished and removed, either through an available public
agency or by contract or arrangement with private persons and the cost of such
demolition and removal shall be charged to the owners of the premises involved,
and may be levied as a special assessment against the land on which the
building or structure is located, and shall be certified by the Code Official
to the County Treasurer for collection in the manner provided for other taxes.
   4.   Salvage Materials. When any structure has been ordered demolished and
removed, the governing body or other designated officer under said contract or
arrangement aforesaid shall have the right to sell the salvage and valuable
materials at the highest price obtainable. The net proceeds of such sale, after
deducting the expenses of such demolition and removal, shall be promptly
remitted with a report of such sale or transaction, including the items of
expense and the amounts deducted for the person who is entitled thereto,
subject to any order of a court. If such a surplus does not remain to be turned
over, the report shall so state.
145.13    VARIANCES.
   1.   Modification. Whenever there are practical difficulties involved in
carrying out this Code, the Code Official shall have the authority to grant
modification for individual cases, provided the Code Official shall first find
that special individual reasons makes the strict letter of this Code
impractical and the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose
of this Code and that such modification does not threaten health, life or fire
safety. The details of action granting modifications shall be recorded and
entered in the records.
   2.   Alternative Materials, Methods and Equipment. The provisions of this
Code are not intended to prevent the installation of any material or to
prohibit any method of construction not specifically prescribed by this Code.
An alternative material or method of construction shall be approved where the
Code Official finds that the proposed design is satisfactory and complies with
the intent of the provisions of this Code, and that the material, method or
work offered is, for the purpose intended at least the equivalent of that
prescribed in this Code in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance,
durability and safety.
145.14    GENERAL MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum
conditions and the responsibilities of owners for the maintenance of premises
and structures.
   2.   Responsibility. The owner of the premises shall maintain the structure
in compliance with these requirements, except as otherwise provided for in this
Code. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another person to
occupy premises which are not in a sanitary and safe condition and which do not
comply with the requirements of this chapter.
   3.   Vacant Structures and Land. All vacant structures and premises thereof
or vacant land shall be maintained in a clean, safe, secure and sanitary
condition as provided herein so as not to cause a lighting problem or adversely
affect the public health or safety.
145.15    EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS.
   1.   General. The exterior grounds of all premises shall be maintained in a
clean, safe, and sanitary condition; free from litter, rubbish, or garbage of
any kind. Lawn areas (other than cultivated gardens) shall be kept mown to a
height not exceeding 10 inches. All other vegetation shall be trimmed and
maintained so as not to interfere with the use of adjoining sidewalks or public
right-of-way and so as not to become a health, safety, or fire hazard.
   2.   Sidewalks and Driveways. All sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways,
parking spaces and similar areas shall be kept in a proper state of repair, and
maintained free from conditions that endanger public health or safety.
   3.   Rodent Harborage. All structures and exterior property shall be kept
free from rodent harborage and infestation. Where rodents are found, they shall
be promptly exterminated by approved processes. After extermination, proper
precautions shall be taken to eliminate rodent harborage and prevent
reinfestation.
   4.   Accessory Structures. All accessory structures, including detached
garages, fences and walls, shall be maintained structurally sound and in good
repair.
   5.   Defacement of Property. No person shall damage, mutilate or deface any
exterior surface of any structure or building on any private or public property
by placing thereon any marking, carving or graffiti. It shall be the
responsibility of the owner to restore said surface to an approved state of
maintenance and repair.
145.16    EXTERIOR STRUCTURE.
   1.   General. The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in good
repair, structurally sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the
public health, safety or welfare.
   2.   Protective Treatment. All exterior surfaces, including but not limited
to, doors, door and window frames, cornices, porches, trim, balconies, decks
and fences shall be maintained in good condition. Exterior wood surfaces, other
than decay-resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by
painting or other protective covering or treatment. Peeling, flaking and
chipped paint shall be eliminated and surfaces repainted. All siding and
masonry joints as well as those between the building envelope and the perimeter
of windows, doors, and skylights shall be maintained weather resistant and
water tight. All metal surfaces subject to rust or corrosion shall be coated to
inhibit such rust and corrosion and all surfaces with rust or corrosion shall
be stabilized and coated to inhibit future rust and corrosion. Oxidation stains
shall be removed from exterior surfaces. Surfaces designed for stabilization by
oxidation are exempt from this requirement.
   3.   Structural Members. All structural members shall be maintained free
from deterioration, and shall be capable of safely supporting the imposed dead
and live loads.
   4.   Foundation Walls. All foundation walls shall be maintained plumb and
free from open cracks and breaks and shall be kept in such condition so as to
prevent the entry of rodents and other pests.
   5.   Exterior Walls. All exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks,
and loose or rotting materials; and maintained weatherproof and properly
surface coated where required to prevent deterioration.
   6.   Roofs and Drainage. The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and not
have defects that admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent
dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the structure.
Roof drains, gutters and downspouts shall be maintained in good repair and free
from obstructions. Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates
a public nuisance.
   7.   Decorative Features. All cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra cotta
trim, wall facings and similar decorative features shall be maintained in good
repair with proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
   8.   Overhang Extensions. All overhang extensions including, but not limited
to canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings, fire escapes, standpipes and
exhaust ducts shall be maintained in good repair and be properly anchored so as
to be kept in sound condition. When required, all exposed surfaces of metal or
wood shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust by periodic
application of weather-coating materials, such as paint or similar surface
treatment.
   9.   Stairways, Decks, Porches and Balconies. Every exterior stairway, deck,
porch and balcony, and all appurtenances attached thereto, shall be maintained
structurally sound, in good repair, with proper anchorage and capable of
supporting the imposed loads.
   10.   Chimneys and Towers. All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks, and
similar appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe and sound, and in
good repair. All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the
elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather-coating
materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
   11.   Handrails and Guards. Every handrail and guard shall be firmly
fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
   12.   Window, Skylight and Door Frames. The exterior of every window,
skylight, door and frame shall be kept in sound condition, good repair and
weather tight.
   13.   Doors. All exterior doors, door assemblies and hardware shall be
maintained in good condition.
   14.   Basement Hatchways. Every basement hatchway shall be maintained to
prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and surface drainage water.
   15.   Guards for Basement Windows. Every basement window that is openable
shall be supplied with rodent shields, storm windows or other approved
protection against the entry of rodents.
145.17    HANDRAILS AND GUARDRAILS.
   1.   General. Every exterior flight of stairs having more than four risers
shall have a handrail on one side of the stair and every open portion of a
stair, landing, balcony, porch, deck, ramp or other walking surface which is
more than 30 inches (762 mm) above the floor or grade below shall have guards.
Handrails shall not be less that 30 inches (762 mm) high or more that 42 inches
(1067 mm) high measured vertically above the nosing of the tread or above the
finished floor of the landing or walking surfaces. Guards shall not be less
than 30 inches (762 mm) high above the floor of the landing, balcony, porch,
deck, or ramp or other walking surface.
   2.   Exception. Guards shall not be required where exempted by the
applicable building Code.
145.18    RUBBISH AND GARBAGE.
   1.   Accumulation of Rubbish or Garbage. All exterior property and premises,
and the interior of every structure, shall be free from any accumulation of
rubbish or garbage.
   2.   Infestations. All structures shall be kept free from insect and rodent
infestation. All structures in which insects or rodents are found shall be
promptly exterminated by approved processes that will not be injurious to human
health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent
reinfestation.
CHAPTER 146
MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES
 
146.01 Definitions                 146.03 Foundation Requirements
146.02 Conversion to Real Property
 
146.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.1)
   1.   “Manufactured home” means a factory-built structure built under the
authority of 42 U.S.C. Sec. 5403 which was constructed on or after June 15,
1976, and is required by federal law to display a seal from the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   2.   “Manufactured home community” means any site, lot, field, or tract of
land under common ownership upon which ten or more occupied manufactured homes
are harbored, either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and includes any
building, structure or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the
equipment of the manufactured home community.
   3.   “Mobile home” means any vehicle without motive power used or so
manufactured or constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon
the public streets and highways and so designed, constructed or reconstructed
as will permit the vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or
more persons; but also includes any such vehicle with motive power not
registered as a motor vehicle in Iowa. A mobile home means any such vehicle
built before June 15, 1976, which was not built to a mandatory building code
and which contains no State or federal seals.
   4.   “Mobile home park” means any site, lot, field or tract of land upon
which three or more mobile homes or manufactured homes, or a combination of any
of these homes, are placed on developed spaces and operated as a for-profit
enterprise with water, sewer or septic, and electrical services available.
The term “manufactured home community” or “mobile home park” is not to be
construed to include manufactured or mobile homes, buildings, tents, or other
structures temporarily maintained by any individual, educational institution,
or company on its own premises and used exclusively to house said entity’s own
labor or students. The manufactured home community or mobile home park shall
meet the requirements of any zoning regulations that are in effect.
146.02   CONVERSION TO REAL PROPERTY.
A mobile home or manufactured home that is located outside a manufactured home
community or mobile home park shall be converted to real estate by being placed
on a permanent foundation and shall be assessed for real estate taxes except in
the following cases:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.26 & Sec. 435.35)
   1.   Retailer’s Stock. Mobile homes or manufactured homes on private
property as part of a retailer’s or a manufacturer’s stock not used as a place
for human habitation.
   2.   Existing Homes. A taxable mobile home or manufactured home that is
located outside of a manufactured home community or mobile home park as of
January 1, 1995, shall be assessed and taxed as real estate, but is exempt from
the permanent foundation requirement of this chapter until the home is
relocated.
146.03   FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS.
A mobile home or manufactured home located outside of a manufactured home
community or mobile home park shall be placed on a permanent frost-free
foundation system that meets the support and anchorage requirements as
recommended by the manufacturer or required by the State Building Code. The
foundation system must be visually compatible with permanent foundation systems
of surrounding residential structures. Any such home shall be installed in
accordance with the requirements of the State Building Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.10 & 414.28)
CHAPTER 147
FIRE ZONE
 
147.01 Fire Zone Established  147.05 Reconstruction Prohibited
147.02 Plans Submitted        147.06 Special Permit
147.03 Buildings Prohibited   147.07 Removal of Buildings
147.04 Construction Standards 147.08 Storage of Materials Restricted
 
147.01   FIRE ZONE ESTABLISHED.
A Fire Zone is established to include all of the following territory:
   The north 200 feet of Blocks 24, 25, 26 and 27, and the south 200 feet of
Blocks 31, 32, 33 and 34 of the Original Plat of the City of Humboldt, Iowa
147.02   PLANS SUBMITTED.
It is unlawful to build, enlarge, or alter any structure, building, or part
thereof, within the Fire Zone until a plan of the proposed work, together with
a statement of materials to be used has been submitted to the Zoning
Adminstrator, who shall, if in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
issue a permit for the proposed work.
147.03   BUILDINGS PROHIBITED.
The erection of any building or structure of any kind, or additions thereto, or
substantial alterations thereof, involving partial rebuilding, are prohibited
in the Fire Zone, unless constructed in strict compliance with the provisions
of this chapter.
147.04   CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
The construction standards for all buildings, structures, or parts thereof
within the Fire Zone shall be of Type I, Type II, or, at a minimum, Type III
fire resistant construction, as specified in the International Building Code.
147.05   RECONSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
Any building within the Fire Zone not constructed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter which is hereafter damaged by fire, decay, or
otherwise shall not be rebuilt, altered, or reconstructed except in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
147.06   SPECIAL PERMIT.
The Council may, by four-fifths vote, issue a special permit to improve any
property within the Fire Zone contrary to the provisions of this chapter, on
condition that such improvement shall not increase the rates for fire insurance
or the fire hazard potential of the area, or to allow any person to erect or
move in any building or structure for temporary purposes for a period of time
not exceeding six months from the date of such permission.
147.07   REMOVAL OF BUILDINGS.
Any person who erects any building in the Fire Zone, contrary to the provisions
of this chapter, shall be given written notice by the Mayor to remove or tear
down the same, and if such removal or taking down is not completed within 30
days from the time of the service of such notice, the Mayor shall cause the
same to be removed or taken down. The Mayor shall report an itemized bill of
the expense to the Clerk, and the same shall be charged to the person owning
such building. The Clerk shall present the bill to the owner of the property
and if the bill is not paid within 10 days from the date it is presented, the
amount of the bill shall be certified, by the Clerk, to the County Treasurer,
as a lien against the property and collected the same as other taxes.
147.08   STORAGE OF MATERIALS RESTRICTED.
No person shall have or deposit any grain stack, pile of rubbish, explosives,
hazardous chemicals or other flammable substance within the Fire Zone, nor
shall any person have or deposit any cord wood or fire wood, within the Fire
Zone without written permission from the City Administrator, specifying the
maximum amount of such cord wood or fire wood, that may be kept, stored, or
deposited on any lot or part of a lot within the Fire Zone, unless the same be
within one of the buildings allowed by this chapter. No person shall build or
allow any fires, whether trash fires or otherwise, within the Fire Zone as
described in this chapter.
CHAPTER 148
BUILDING DEMOLITION
 
148.01 Establishment and Purpose 148.03 Exceptions
148.02 Operation
 
148.01 ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
It is hereby ordained that in order to establish surety and good faith for the
adequate and proper demolition of buildings prior to such demolition a cash
deposit shall be made to the Clerk. Such deposit shall represent a surety for
such costs as the City might incur in terminating municipal utilities to the
property affected, such additional cleanup as may be necessary to protect the
general health and environment of the general community and for such other
incidental expenses as may be incurred by the City in protecting the public
welfare from demolished structures.
148.02    OPERATION.
The deposit for demolition of structures shall be set by resolution and shall
be paid to the Clerk no later than 24 hours prior to the demolition. Once
demolition has been completed the property owner shall notify the Clerk who
shall in turn notify the appropriate City utility and inspection department who
shall in turn conduct a thorough inspection of the premises and report the
findings to the Clerk. If no deficiencies in the demolition exist and if no
genuine hazard is posed to the general community in the opinion of the
inspector, the Clerk shall promptly notify the property owner and shall
immediately tender the full deposit amount back to the property owner. If no
deficiencies or hazards exist, the inspection and tender of return for deposit
moneys shall be made within 48 hours after notification of demolition. If
deficiencies do exist the Clerk shall within the same 48-hour period present a
written list of said deficiencies to the property owner who shall then be
granted a period of 5 days from the date of said notice to correct the
deficiencies. At the close of the five days or upon notice from the property
owner, the appropriate City inspection official shall conduct another
investigation and if such deficiencies are corrected, shall within 24 hours
notify the Clerk who shall immediately tender a return of the deposit moneys to
the property owner. If upon notification or the expiration of the correction
period these corrections are not made, the City may utilize the deposit moneys
for such expenses and costs as may be necessary to correct the problem and
shall forthwith proceed with such corrective measures.
148.03    EXCEPTIONS.
Structures having no permanent foundation may be excepted at the discretion of
the City Building Inspector, who shall survey the premises and report to the
Clerk as to whether a hazard to City utilities or welfare exists.
CHAPTER 150
BUILDING NUMBERING
 
150.01 Definitions        150.03 Building Numbering Plan
150.02 Owner Requirements
 
150.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Owner” means the owner of the principal building.
   2.   “Principal building” means the main building on any lot or subdivision
thereof.
150.02   OWNER REQUIREMENTS.
Every owner shall comply with the following numbering requirements:
   1.   Obtain Building Number. The owner shall obtain the assigned number to
the principal building from the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
   2.   Display Building Number. The owner shall place or cause to be installed
and maintained on the principal building the assigned number in a conspicuous
place to the street in figures not less than 3 inches in height and of a
contrasting color with their background.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
   3.   Failure to Comply. If an owner refuses to number a building as herein
provided, or fails to do so for a period of 30 days after being notified in
writing by the City to do so, the City may proceed to place the assigned number
on the principal building and assess the costs against the property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
150.03   BUILDING NUMBERING PLAN.
Building numbers shall be assigned in accordance with the building numbering
plan on file in the office of the Clerk.
CHAPTER 151
TREES
 
151.01 Definition            151.04 Trimming Trees to Be Supervised
151.02 Planting Restrictions 151.05 Disease Control
151.03 Duty to Trim Trees    151.06 Inspection and Removal
 
151.01   DEFINITION.
For use in this chapter, “parking” means that part of the street, avenue, or
highway in the City not covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and
the curb line or, on unpaved streets, that part of the street, avenue, or
highway lying between the lot line and that portion of the street usually
traveled by vehicular traffic.
151.02   PLANTING RESTRICTIONS.
No tree shall be planted in any parking or street except in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Alignment. All trees planted in any street shall be planted in the
parking midway between the outer line of the sidewalk and the curb. In the
event a curb line is not established, trees shall be planted on a line 10 feet
from the property line.
   2.   Spacing. Trees shall not be planted on any parking that is less than
nine feet in width, or contains less than 81 square feet of exposed soil
surface per tree. Trees shall not be planted closer than 20 feet from street
intersections (property lines extended) and 10 feet from driveways. If it is at
all possible, trees should be planted inside the property lines and not between
the sidewalk and the curb.
   3.   Prohibited Trees. No person shall plant in any street any fruit-bearing
tree or any tree of the kinds commonly known as cottonwood, poplar, box elder,
Chinese elm, evergreen, willow, or black walnut.
151.03   DUTY TO TRIM TREES.
The owner or agent of the abutting property shall keep the trees on, or
overhanging the street, trimmed so that all branches will be at least 15 feet
above the surface of the street and eight feet above the sidewalks. If the
abutting property owner fails to trim the trees, the City may serve notice on
the abutting property owner requiring that such action be taken within five
days. If such action is not taken within that time, the City may perform the
required action and assess the costs against the abutting property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c, d & e])
151.04   TRIMMING TREES TO BE SUPERVISED.
Except as allowed in Section
151.03, it is unlawful for any person to trim or cut any tree in a street or
public place unless the work is done under the supervision of the City.
151.05   DISEASE CONTROL.
Any dead, diseased, or damaged tree or shrub that may harbor serious insect or
disease pests or disease injurious to other trees is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
151.06   INSPECTION AND REMOVAL.
The Council shall inspect or cause to be inspected any trees or shrubs in the
City reported or suspected to be dead, diseased or damaged, and such trees and
shrubs shall be subject to the following:
   1.   City Property. If it is determined that any such condition exists on
any public property, including the strip between the curb and the lot line of
private property, the Council may cause such condition to be corrected by
treatment or removal. The Council may also order the removal of any trees on
the streets of the City which interfere with the making of improvements or with
travel thereon.
   2.   Private Property. If it is determined with reasonable certainty that
any such condition exists on private property and that danger to other trees or
to adjoining property or passing motorists or pedestrians is imminent, the
Council shall notify by certified mail the owner, occupant or person in charge
of such property to correct such condition by treatment or removal within 14
days of said notification. If such owner, occupant, or person in charge of said
property fails to comply within 14 days of receipt of notice, the Council may
cause the condition to be corrected and the cost assessed against the property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3b & h])
CHAPTER 152
COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND ANTENNAS
                                       152.10 Availability of Suitable Existing
152.01 Definitions                     Towers, Other Structures or Alternative
                                       Technology
152.02 Applicability                   152.11 Setbacks
152.03 General Requirements            152.12 Separation
152.04 Administratively Permitted Uses 152.13 Height
Generally
152.05 List of Administratively        152.14 Security Fencing
Permitted Uses
152.06 Conditional Uses Generally      152.15 Landscaping
152.07 List of Conditional Uses        152.16 Buildings or Other Equipment
                                       Storage
152.08 Submittal Requirements          152.17 Removal of Abandoned Antennas and
                                       Towers
152.09 Factors Considered In Granting  152.18 Nonconforming Uses
Conditional Use Permits For Towers
 
152.01   DEFINITIONS.
   1.   “Amateur wireless telecommunication facility” means an amateur (ham)
radio station licensed by the Federal Communications Commission, including
equipment such as, but not limited to, a tower or alternative tower structure
supporting a single, radiating antenna platform and other equipment.
   2.   “Antenna” means any exterior transmitting or receiving device mounted
on a tower, building or structure and used in communications that radiate or
capture electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog signals, radio
frequencies (excluding radar signals), wireless telecommunications signals or
other communication signals.
   3.   “FAA” means the Federal Aviation Administration.
   4.   “FCC” means the Federal Communications Commission.
   5.   “Height” means, when referring to a tower or other structure, the
distance measured from the finished grade to the highest point on the tower or
other structure, including the base pad and any antenna.
   6.   “Preexisting towers and preexisting antennas” means any tower or
antenna existing prior to the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter (Ordinance No. 2003-11, adopted November 3, 2003).
   7.   “Public” means the State of Iowa or any of it governmental
subdivisions.
   8.   “Tower” means any structure that is designed and constructed for the
purpose of supporting one or more antennas for telephone, radio and similar
communication purposes, including self-supporting lattice towers, guyed towers,
or mono-pole towers. The term includes radio and television transmission
towers, microwave towers, common-carrier towers, cellular telephone towers,
alternative tower structures, and the like. The term includes the structure and
any support thereto.
152.02    APPLICABILITY.
   1.   New Towers and Antennas. All new towers or antennas erected in the City
after the effective date of this chapter shall be subject to these regulations,
except as provided in the following Subsections 2 through 4, inclusive.
   2.   Public Towers or Antennas. Any tower or antenna owned and operated by
the State of Iowa or any of its governmental subdivisions or used by the State
of Iowa or any of its governmental subdivisions shall be exempt from this
section provided the tower or antenna is for governmental purposes.
   3.   Preexisting Towers or Antennas. Preexisting towers and preexisting
antennas shall not be required to meet the requirements of this chapter, other
than the requirements of Subsections 152.03(6) and (7).
   4.   AM Array. For purposes of implementing this section, an AM array,
consisting of one or more tower units and supporting ground system which
functions as one AM broadcasting antenna, shall be considered one tower.
Measurements for setbacks and separation distances shall be measured from the
outer perimeter of the towers included in the AM array. Additional tower units
may be added within the perimeter of the AM array by right.
   5.   Amateur Wireless Telecommunication Facilities. This chapter does not
govern any tower or the installation of any antenna which is owned and operated
by a federally licensed amateur radio station operator or is used exclusively
for an individual residence (dish antenna, etc.), except that such installation
shall conform to the requirements of Sections
152.03(4)(D) and 152.03(7) of this chapter.
152.03    GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Principal or Accessory Use. Antennas and towers may be considered
either principal or accessory uses.
   2.   Lot Size. For purposes of determining whether the installation of a
tower or antenna complies with district development regulations, including but
not limited to setback requirements, lot coverage requirements, and other such
requirements, the dimensions of the entire lot shall control, even though the
antennas or towers may be located on leased parcels within such lot.
   3.   Inventory of Existing Sites. Each applicant for an antenna and/or tower
shall provide to the Zoning Official an inventory of its existing towers that
are either within the jurisdiction of the City or within one mile of the border
thereof, including specific information about the location, height, and design
of each tower. The Zoning Official may share such information with other
applicants applying for administrative approvals or conditional use permits
under this section or other organizations seeking to locate antennas within the
jurisdiction of the City, provided, however, that the Zoning Official is not,
by sharing such information, in any way representing or warranting that such
sites are available or suitable.
   4.   Aesthetics. Towers and antennas shall meet the following general
aesthetic requirements.
      A.   Towers shall either maintain a galvanized steel finish or, subject
to any applicable standards of the FAA, be painted a neutral color so as to
reduce visual obtrusiveness.
      B.   At a tower site, the design of the buildings and related structures
shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening and
landscaping that will blend them into the natural setting and surrounding
buildings.
      C.   If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the
antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical equipment must be of a neutral
color that is identical to or closely compatible with the color of the
supporting structure so as to make the antenna and related equipment as
visually unobtrusive as possible.
      D.   Towers shall not be erected in the front yard of a residential
dwelling.
   5.   Lighting. Towers and antennas shall not be artificially lighted, unless
required by the FAA or other applicable authority. If lighting is required, the
lighting alternatives and design chosen must cause the least disturbance to the
surrounding views.
   6.   State or Federal Requirements. All towers and antennas must meet or
exceed current standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC and any other
agency of the State or Federal government with the authority to regulate towers
and antennas. If such standards and regulations are changed, then the owners of
the towers and antennas governed by this section shall bring such towers and
antennas into compliance with such revised standards and regulations within six
months of the effective date of such standards and regulations, unless a
different compliance schedule is mandated by the controlling State or Federal
agency. Failure to bring towers and antennas into compliance with such revised
standards and regulations shall constitute grounds for the removal of the tower
or antenna at the owner’s expense.
   7.   Building Codes; Safety Standards. Notwithstanding any provisions of
this section, the construction of towers, antennas and supplemental buildings
and equipment shall comply with applicable State and local building, electrical
and mechanical codes, as amended from time to time. If, upon inspection, the
City concludes that such facility fails to comply with such codes and standards
and constitutes a danger to persons or property, then upon notice being
provided to the owner of the facility, the owner shall bring such facility into
compliance as set forth in said notice.
   8.   Measurement. For purposes of measurement, tower setbacks and separation
distances shall be calculated and applied to facilities located in the City
irrespective of municipal and County jurisdictional boundaries.
   9.   Not Essential Services. Towers and antennas shall be regulated and
permitted pursuant to this section and shall not be regulated or permitted as
essential services, public utilities, or private utilities.
   10.   Signs. No signs shall be allowed on an antenna or tower, other than
safety or warning signs.
   11.   Buildings and Support Equipment. Buildings and support equipment
associated with antennas or towers shall comply with the requirements of
Section
152.16 of this chapter.
   12.   Multiple Antenna/Tower Plan. The City encourages the users of towers
and antennas to submit a single application for approval of multiple towers
and/or antenna sites.
   13.   Co-location. No wireless communications owner, operator, lessee and/or
employee thereof shall act to exclude or attempt to exclude any other wireless
communications provider from using the same building, structure or location.
Wireless communications owners, operators, lessees and/or employees thereof
shall cooperate in good faith to achieve co-location of wireless
telecommunication towers, antennas and equipment with other wireless
communications providers.
   14.   Certification of Information. Any information of an engineering nature
that the applicant submits, whether civil, mechanical, or electrical, shall be
certified by a licensed professional engineer.
152.04    ADMINISTRATIVELY PERMITTED USES GENERALLY.
The following provisions shall govern the issuance of administrative approvals
for towers and antennas.
   1.   The Zoning Official may administratively approve the uses listed in
Section
152.05 of this chapter.
   2.   Each applicant for administrative approval shall apply to the Zoning
Official providing the information set forth in Section
152.08 of this chapter.
   3.   The Zoning Official shall review the application for administrative
approval and determine if the proposed use complies with Sections
152.05 and
152.08 through
152.16 of this chapter, as applicable.
   4.   If an administrative approval is denied, the Zoning Official shall
issue a finding of fact stating the reason for denial. The applicant may file
an appeal to the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
152.05    LIST OF ADMINISTRATIVELY PERMITTED USES.
The following uses may be permitted by the Zoning Official after conducting an
administrative review:
   1.   Locating a tower, including the placement of additional buildings or
other supporting equipment used in connection with said tower, in the following
Zoning Districts: I-1, General Industrial District, and I-2, Heavy Industrial
District.
   2.   Locating a tower, including the placement of additional buildings or
other supporting equipment in Planned Development Zoning Districts, provided
said facilities are in compliance with an approved Final Development Plan. If
not specifically included on an approved Final Development Plan, a revised
Final Development Plan shall be required.
   3.   Locating antennas on existing structures or towers consistent with the
following:
      A.   Any antenna which is not attached to a tower, that is an accessory
use to a public structure in any district, or an accessory use to a commercial
or industrial structure located in any district except those listed in Section
152.07(2) of this section, provided:
         (1)   The antenna is located as far from the edge of the roof or top
of the structure as possible and does not extend more than 15 feet above the
highest point of the structure when attached to the roof or top of the
structure.
         (2)   The antenna is mounted in a configuration as flush to the wall
as technically possible and does not project above the wall on which it is
attached when mounted to the wall of a structure.
         (3)   The antenna complies with all applicable FCC and FAA
regulations.
         (4)   The antenna complies with all applicable building codes.
         (5)   A license or lease authorizing such antenna or tower has been
approved by the property owner.
      B.   Any antenna which is attached to an existing tower provided a
licensed engineer certifies the existing tower can structurally accommodate the
additional antenna.
152.06    CONDITIONAL USES GENERALLY.
Applications for conditional use permits from the Zoning Board of Adjustment
shall be subject to the procedures and requirements of the Zoning Ordinance and
Sections
152.03 and
152.06 through
152.16 of this chapter as applicable.
152.07    LIST OF CONDITIONAL USES.
The following conditional uses may be permitted by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment:
   1.   Locating a tower, ‘including the placement of additional buildings or
other supporting equipment used in connection with said tower, in the following
Zoning Districts: C-2, General Commercial District and C-3 Central Business
Implement District.
   2.   Locating antennas on existing structures consistent with the terms of
the following paragraphs A through F, in the following districts: R-1, Single
Family Residential District; R-2, Two Family Residential District; R-3,
Multiple Family Residential District; M-1, Mobile Home Residential District;
PUD, Planned Unit Development District; and C-1, Central Business District.
      A.   The antenna is an accessory use to any commercial, industrial, or
multifamily structure of eight or more dwelling units.
      B.   The antenna is located as far from the edge of the roof or top of
the structure as possible and does not extend more than 15 feet above the
highest point of the structure when attached to the roof or top of the
structure.
      C.   The antenna is mounted in a configuration as flush to the wall as
technically possible and does not project above the wall on which it is
attached when mounted to the wall of a structure.
      D.   The antenna complies with all applicable FCC and FAA regulations.
      E.   The antenna complies with all applicable building codes.
      F.   A license or lease authorizing such antenna or tower has been
approved by the property owner.
152.08    SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
Applicants for a permit to construct a tower and/or antenna shall submit the
following information (as applicable):
   1.   A scaled site plan clearly indicating the location, type and height of
the proposed tower and/or antenna, on-site land uses and zoning, adjacent land
uses and zoning, Comprehensive Plan land use designation and zoning of the site
and all properties within the applicable separation distances set forth in
Section
152.12 (including when adjacent to other municipalities), adjacent roadways,
proposed means of access, setbacks from property lines, elevation drawings of
the proposed tower and/or antenna and any other structures, topography,
parking, and other information deemed by the decision maker to be necessary to
assess compliance with this section.
   2.   Legal description of the parent tract and leased parcel (if
applicable).
   3.   The separation distance between the proposed tower and the nearest
residentially zoned property.
   4.   The separation distance from other towers described in the inventory of
existing sites submitted pursuant to Subsection 152.03(3) shall be shown on an
updated site plan or map. The applicant shall also identify the type of
construction of the existing towers and the owner/operator of the existing
towers, if known.
   5.   A landscape plan showing specific landscape materials.
   6.   Method of fencing, and finished color and, if applicable, the method of
camouflage and illumination.
   7.   A description of compliance with Sections
152.03 and
152.08 through
152.16 of this chapter and all applicable Federal, State or local laws.
   8.   A statement by the applicant as to whether construction of the tower
will accommodate co-location of additional antennas for future users.
   9.   Identification of other cellular sites owned or operated by the
applicant within the City.
   10.   A description of the suitability of the use of existing towers, other
structures or alternative technology not requiring the use of towers or
structures to provide the services to be provided through the use of the
proposed new tower.
   11.   A description of the feasible locations of future towers or antennas
within the geographic area based upon existing physical, engineering,
technological or geographical limitations in the event the proposed tower is
erected.
152.09    FACTORS CONSIDERED IN GRANTING CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS FOR TOWERS.
In addition to any standards for consideration of conditional use permit
applications pursuant to the Zoning Ordinance, the Zoning Board of Adjustment
shall consider the following factors in determining whether to issue a
conditional use permit, although the Zoning Board of Adjustment may waive or
reduce the burden on the applicant of one or more of these criteria if the
Board concludes that the goals of this section are better served thereby.
   1.   Height of proposed tower;
   2.   Proximity of the tower to residential structures and residential
district boundaries;
   3.   Nature of uses on adjacent and nearby properties;
   4.   Surrounding topography;
   5.   Surrounding tree coverage and foliage.
   6.   Design of the tower, with particular reference to design
characteristics that have the effect of reducing or eliminating visual
obtrusiveness;
   7.   Proposed ingress and egress; and
   8.   Availability of suitable existing towers, other structures or
alternative technologies not requiring the use of towers or structures, as
discussed in Section
152.10 of this chapter.
152.10    AVAILABILITY OF SUITABLE EXISTING TOWERS, OTHER STRUCTURES OR
ALTERNATIVE TECHNOLOGY.
No new tower shall be permitted unless the applicant demonstrates to the
reasonable satisfaction of the decision maker that no existing tower, structure
or alternative technology can accommodate the applicants needs. Evidence
submitted shall address the following:
   1.   No existing towers or structures are located within the geographic area
that meet the applicant’s engineering requirements.
   2.   Existing towers or structures are not of sufficient height to meet
applicant’s engineering requirements.
   3.   Existing towers or structures do not have sufficient structural
strength to support applicant’s proposed antenna and related equipment.
   4.   The applicant’s proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic
interference with the antenna on the existing towers or structures, or the
antenna on the existing towers or structures would cause interference with the
applicant’s proposed antenna.
   5.   The fees, costs, or contractual provisions required by the owner in
order to share an existing tower or structure or to adapt an existing tower or
structure for sharing are unreasonable. Costs exceeding new tower development
are presumed to be unreasonable.
   6.   Other limiting factors that render existing towers and structures
unsuitable are demonstrated.
   7.   Alternative technology that does not require the use of towers or
structures, such as a cable micro cell network using multiple low-powered
transmitters/receivers attached to a wire line system, is unsuitable.
152.11    SETBACKS.
The following setback requirements apply to all wireless communications towers:
   1.   Towers must be set back a distance equal to at least 75% of the height
of the tower from any adjoining lot line.
   2.   Guys and accessory buildings must satisfy the minimum zoning district
setback requirements.
152.12    SEPARATION.
The following separation requirements apply to all wireless communications
towers.
   1.   Separation From Residentially Zoned Property.
      A.   Wireless communications towers shall be separated from any
residentially zoned property (regardless of development status) by a distance
of 300 feet or 300% of the height of the tower, whichever is greater.
      B.   Separation distances between towers and residentially zoned property
shall be measured by drawing or following a straight line from the base of the
proposed tower to the nearest point of the residential district boundary.
   2.   Separation Distances Between Towers.
      A.   Separation distances between towers shall be measured between the
proposed tower and preexisting towers. The separation distances shall be
measured by drawing or following a straight line between the base of the
existing tower and the proposed base, pursuant to a site plan, of the proposed
tower.
      B.   The separation distances (listed in linear feet) shall be as shown
in Table 1.
Table 1
 
Types of Existing Towers
                      Lattice Guyed Monopole 75 Feet In Monopole Less than 75
                                    Height or Greater   Feet In Height
Lattice               5,000   5,000 1,500               750
Guyed                 5,000   5,000 1,500               750
Monopole 75 Feet In   1,500   1,500 1,500               750
Height or Greater
Monopole Less than 75 750     750   750                 750
Feet In Height
 
152.13 HEIGHT.
No tower shall be erected in excess of 75 feet, measured from the average
original grade, unless special circumstances exist that make said height
limitation unreasonable.
152.14    SECURITY FENCING.
Towers shall be enclosed by fencing not less than six feet in height and shall
also be equipped with an appropriate anti-climbing device.
152.15    LANDSCAPING.
The following requirements shall govern the landscaping surrounding ground-
based towers unless the tower is located in an industrial zoned district.
   1.   Ground-based towers shall be landscaped with a buffer of plant
materials that effectively screens the view of the tower compound from
adjoining properties. The standard buffer shall consist of an evergreen hedge
with an ultimate height of at least 5 feet and a planted height of at least 36
inches outside the perimeter of the compound.
   2.   In locations where the visual impact of the ground-based tower would be
minimal, the landscaping requirement may be reduced or waived by the decision
maker.
   3.   Existing mature tree growth and natural landforms on the site shall be
preserved to the maximum extent possible. In some cases, such as towers sited
on large, wooded lots, natural growth around the property perimeter site may be
sufficient buffer.
152.16    BUILDINGS OR OTHER EQUIPMENT STORAGE.
Any buildings and support equipment associated with antennas or towers are
subject to the following:
   1.   When located on a roof or top of an existing structure, the buildings
and support equipment shall be located as far from the edge of the roof or top
as possible.
   2.   When located on the ground, the buildings and support equipment shall
meet or exceed the minimum setbacks of the applicable zoning district.
   3.   Roof-mounted buildings and support equipment shall be screened by
parapet walls or screen walls in a manner compatible with the building’s
design, color and material.
   4.   Ground-mounted buildings and support equipment shall be enclosed by a
6-foot high wood fence. An evergreen hedge with an ultimate height of at least
5 feet and a planted height of at least 36 inches shall be planted along the
perimeter of the fence.
152.17    REMOVAL OF ABANDONED ANTENNAS AND TOWERS.
Any antenna or tower that is not operated for a continuous period of 24 months
shall be considered abandoned, and the owner of such antenna or tower shall
remove the same within 90 days of receipt of notice from the City notifying the
owner of such abandonment. Failure to remove an abandoned antenna or tower
within said ninety days shall be grounds to remove the tower or antenna at the
owner’s expense. If there are two or more users of a single tower, then this
provision shall not become effective until all users cease using the tower.
152.18    NONCONFORMING USES.
   1.   No Expansion of Nonconforming Use. Towers that are constructed and
antennas that are installed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
shall not be deemed to constitute the expansion of a nonconforming use or
structure.
   2.   Preexisting Towers. Preexisting towers shall be allowed to continue
their usage as they presently exist. Routine maintenance (including replacement
with a new tower of like construction and height) shall be permitted on such
preexisting towers. New construction other than routine maintenance on a
preexisting tower shall comply with the requirements of this chapter.
   3.   Rebuilding Damaged or Destroyed Nonconforming Towers or Antennas.
Notwithstanding Section
152.16, bona fide nonconforming towers or antennas that are damaged or
destroyed may be rebuilt without having to first obtain administrative approval
or a conditional use permit and without having to meet the setback and
separation requirements specified in Sections
152.11 and
152.12. The type, height, and location of the tower on site shall be the same
type and intensity as the original facility approval. Building permits to
rebuild the facility shall comply with the then applicable building codes and
shall be obtained within 180 days from the date the facility is damaged or
destroyed. If no permit is obtained or if said permit expires, the tower or
antenna shall be deemed abandoned as specified in Section
152.17.
CHAPTER 153
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
 
153.01 Definitions                        153.05 Location Limitations
153.02 Commercial Wind Energy Conversion  153.06 Design and Technical Standards
Systems Prohibited
153.03 Special Exception for Non-         153.07 Application and Approval
Commercial Wind Energy Conversion Systems Requirements
153.04 General Regulations                153.08 Miscellaneous Provision
 
153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Blade. An element of a wind turbine which acts as a part of an airfoil
assembly, thereby extracting through rotation, kinetic energy directly from the
wind.
   Commercial Wind Energy Conversion System. Any Wind Energy Conversion System
that does not meet the definition of a Non-Commercial Wind Energy Conversion
System.
   Horizontal Axis Wind Turbine. A wind turbine design, in which the shaft is
parallel to the ground, and the blades are perpendicular to the ground.
   Non-Commercial Wind Energy Conversion System (“NCWECS”). A Wind Energy
Conversion System which has a rated capacity of up to 100 kilowatts and which
is accessory to a permitted use on the same parcel. A system is considered a
“Non-Commercial Wind Energy Conversion System” only if it supplies electrical
power solely for on-site use, except that when the parcel on which the system
is installed also receives electrical power supplied by a utility company,
excess electrical power generated and not presently needed for on-site use may
be used by the utility company in accordance with Section 199, Chapter 15.11(5)
of the Iowa Administrative Code.
   Owner. The individual or entity that owns the physical structures making up
the Wind Energy Conversion System, and who is responsible for meeting the
requirements of this chapter, including the removal obligations set forth in
Section
153.08(2).
   Rotor Diameter. The diameter of the circle described by the moving rotor
blades.
   Shadow Flicker. Alternating changes in light intensity caused by the moving
blade of a wind power generator casting shadows on the ground and stationary
objects.
   Tower. Vertical structure that supports the electrical generator and rotor
blades of a Wind Energy Conversion System.
   Tower Height. The height above grade of the fixed portion of the tower,
excluding the generation unit and attached blades or rotors.
   Total System Height. The height of the Wind Energy Conversion System,
including the tower, generating unit, and the highest vertical extension of any
blades or rotors.
   Vertical Axis Wind Turbine. A wind generator design where the rotating shaft
is perpendicular to the ground and the cups or blades rotate parallel to the
ground.
   Wind Energy Conversion System (“WECS” or “System”). An aggregation of parts
(e.g. - including the base, tower, generator, rotor, blades, supports, guy
wires and accessory equipment, interconnect and battery banks) configured to
convert the power of wind into mechanical or electrical energy.
   Wind Turbine. A wind turbine is any piece of electrical generating equipment
that converts the kinetic energy of blowing wind into electrical energy.
153.02    COMMERCIAL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS PROHIBITED.
It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain a Commercial Wind Energy Conversion
System anywhere within the City.
153.03    SPECIAL EXCEPTION FOR NON-COMMERCIAL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS.
   1.   Conditional Use. A Non-Commercial Wind Energy Conversion System shall
be allowed only by special exception as an accessory use to a permitted
principal use (or to an approved specially-excepted principal use).
   2.   Permit Required. It shall be unlawful to construct, erect, install,
alter or locate any Non-Commercial Wind Energy Conversion System within the
City, unless a special exception has been obtained by the owner of the system
from the Zoning Board of Adjustment in accordance with
Chapter 165 of the Humboldt Municipal Code, as modified by the provisions of
this chapter. A special exception permit may be revoked any time the approved
Wind Energy Conversion System does not comply with the requirements set forth
in this chapter or any conditions imposed by the Board of Adjustment. The owner
of a Non-Commercial Wind Energy Conversion System shall also confirm to the
Board of Adjustment that it has obtained all other permits required by federal,
State and local authorities prior to erecting the system, including the Federal
Aviation Administration and the Federal Communications Commission.
153.04    GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   1.   Height Limitations.
      A.   A NCWECS located in any A-1, R-1, R-2, R-3, M-1, C-1, C-2, C-3 or
PUD Zoning Districts shall not have a total system height greater than 60 feet
above ground (measured from the average original grade) in the case of a tower-
mounted system; or shall not extend more than 15 feet above the height of the
supporting building in the case of a roof-mounted system.
      B.   In I-1 or I-2 Zoning Districts, the total system height of a NCWECS
may not exceed 150 feet above ground (measured from the average original
grade), whether tower-mounted or roof-mounted.
   2.   Setback Requirements.
      A.   The supporting structure of all NCWECSs shall be set back the
following distances from all property lines:
         (1)   In A-1, R-1, R-2, R-3, M-1, C-1, C-2, C-3 and PUD Zoning
Districts, at least 125% of the total system height.
         (2)   In I-1 or I-2 Zoning Districts, at least 100% of the total
system height.
      B.   No part of a NCWECS, including blades and guy wire anchors, may
extend any closer than 15' to the property boundaries of the lot on which it is
being installed.
153.05    LOCATION LIMITATIONS.
No part of a NCWECS shall be located within or over any drainage, utility or
other public easements, or on or over property lines.
No part of a NCWECS shall be located in any existing building setback area
under the Humboldt Municipal Zoning Ordinance.
All tower-mounted NCWECSs in any Zoning District other than I-1 or I-2 shall be
located entirely in the rear yard.
All NCWECSs shall be located in compliance with local airport zoning
regulations and any regulations of the federal aviation regulations with regard
to all applicable airport approach and clearance restrictions.
153.06    DESIGN AND TECHNICAL STANDARDS.
The following standards are required of all Non-Commercial Wind Energy
Conversion Systems:
   1.   Color. The entire system shall be white or light grey in color. Other
neutral colors may be allowed at the discretion of the Zoning Board of
Adjustment. All surfaces of the system shall be non-reflective.
   2.   Lighting. No lights shall be installed on the system, unless required
to meet FAA regulations.
   3.   Signs. For tower-mounted systems, one sign, limited to four square
feet, shall be posted at the base of the tower. The sign shall include a notice
of no trespassing, a warning of high voltage, and the phone number of the
responsible party to call in case of emergency. No brand names associated with
the system or any advertising shall be visible from any public property
(including right-of-way).
   4.   Climbing Apparatus. All climbing apparatus shall be located at least
12' above the ground, and all towers must be designed to prevent climbing
within the first 12'.
   5.   Maintenance. The system and all related equipment and facilities shall
be well maintained and kept in an operational condition that poses no potential
safety hazard. At least every 60 months, all towers shall be inspected by an
expert who is regularly involved in the maintenance, inspection and/or erection
of towers. A copy of the inspection report shall be filed with the City Clerk
by no later than June 1st following each 60 month period.
   6.   Restriction on Use of Electricity Generated. A NCWECS shall be used
exclusively to supply electrical power for on-site consumption, except that
when a parcel on which a Wind Energy Conversion System is installed also
receives electrical power supplied by a utility company, excess electrical
power generated by the Wind Energy Conversion System and not presently needed
for on-site use may be used by the utility company in accordance with Section
199, Chapter 15.11(5) of the Iowa Administrative Code. The owner shall make
available to the Zoning Administrator all reports to and from any purchaser of
energy from the Wind Energy Conversion System if requested.
   7.   Clearance of Blade Above Ground. No portion of the system blades shall
extend within 20' of the ground. No blades may extend over parking areas,
driveways or sidewalks.
   8.   Automatic Overspeed Controls. All systems shall be equipped with manual
and automatic overspeed controls to limit the blade rotation speed to within
the design limits of the system.
   9.   Electromagnetic Interference. No NCWECS shall be installed in any
location where its proximity to existing fixed broadcast, retransmission, or
reception antenna for radio, television, or wireless phone or other personal
communication systems produces electromagnetic interference with signal
transmission or reception. No system shall be installed in any location along
the major axis of an existing microwave communications link where its operation
is likely to produce electromagnetic interference in the link’s operation. If
it is determined that the Wind Energy Conversion System is causing
electromagnetic interference, the operator shall take the necessary corrective
action to eliminate this interference including relocation or removal of the
facilities, subject to the approval of the Board of Adjustment. The Board of
Adjustment may revoke a special exception permit for a NCWECS if material
electromagnetic interference from said system becomes evident.
   10.   Wind Access Easements. The enactment of this chapter does not
constitute the granting of an easement by the City. The owner shall provide
covenants, easements, or similar documentation to assure sufficient wind to
operate the NCWECS, unless adequate accessibility to the wind is provided by
the site without the removal of any trees taller than 20'.
153.07    APPLICATION AND APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS.
Approval or denial of an application for a special exception to permit the
construction of a NCWECS shall be made by the Zoning Board of Adjustment as
provided in
Chapter 165 of this Code, and as supplemented by this chapter. The Board of
Adjustment may also consider a variance request related to the NCWECS in
conjunction with any application for a special exception permit hereunder.
   1.   Application. An application for a special exception to operate a Wind
Energy Conversion System shall be made on a form provided by the City Clerk and
shall be accompanied by the following information; along with an application
fee that is set by resolution. Applications for a special exception permit for
a NCWECS, including tower structures or roof-mounted structures, shall contain
the following information:
      A.   A signed petition by the proposed owner of the NCWECS with the name
and address of the owner, the address and legal description of the property on
which the NCWECS will be located, the name of the owner of the lot on which the
system is to be located, and a general description of the proposed system
including size of energy-generating turbines, height of the proposed tower
structure, blade alignment, etc. A proposed time-line for the installation of
the proposed system must be set forth.
      B.   A statement indicating that the applicant has authority to
construct, operate, and develop the NCWECS under State and federal laws and
regulations, including Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Federal
Communications Commission (FCC).
      C.   A professionally prepared site plan illustrating the specific
location(s) of the proposed system and tower structure, showing property
boundaries, existing utility easements or other types of easements across the
property, topography of the site at 10 ft. increments, proposed setbacks from
the property boundary and all other structures and facilities on the property
including other accessory structures, parking lots and nearby streets. In
addition, all separately-owned properties within 200 feet of the property where
the NCWECS is to be located must be shown along with the names and addresses of
all property owners shown on the site plan. The site plan must also illustrate
all structures on the subject site and abutting properties (including overhead
electric lines) and the distance between those structures and the proposed
NCWECS. Nearby streets and roadways, including the public right-of-ways located
closest to the proposed NCWECS to be illustrated.
      D.   A diagram illustrating the potential “fall zone” (i.e. in the event
of collapse of the tower structure(s)) with property boundaries, building
structures and public right-of-ways illustrated within the potential “fall
zone”.
      E.   A description of how the NCWECS will be anchored to the ground or
structure, prepared by a professional engineer licensed in the State of Iowa. A
general direction of rotation with a description of anticipated noise
generation by a properly maintained mechanism must be shown.
      F.   A statement from the applicant that the NCWECS will be installed in
compliance with manufacturer’s specifications, and a copy of those
manufacturer’s specifications must be provided.
   2.   Public Notice. The Zoning Administrator shall cause notice of the
public hearing to be published in the time and manner set forth in Section
18.05 of the Humboldt Municipal Code. When application is made for approval of
a Wind Energy Conversion System, notices shall be mailed to the owners of all
properties within 200' of the zoning lot on which the system is proposed to be
constructed.
   3.   Public Notice Signs. One public notice sign, provided by the Zoning
Administrator, shall be placed within 15' of the right-of-way along each street
abutting the zoning lot on which the Wind Energy Conversion System would be
placed. On zoning lots with more than 300' of frontage on one or more streets,
multiple public notice signs shall be placed at 300' intervals along the right-
of-way.
   4.   Transferability. Any special exception granted by the Board of
Adjustment for the installation of a NCWECS shall be transferable upon the
transfer of the ownership of the system.
   5.   Expiration. Failure to complete construction of the system within one
year from the date of issuance of the special exception permit shall result in
the automatic revocation of such permit.
153.08    MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   1.   Insurance. Upon the granting of a special exception, the owner shall
assume full responsibility for any and all damages, claims, expenses,
liabilities, judgments and costs of any kind, including reasonable attorney’s
fees related to or caused by the erection, location, use, or removal of a
NCWECS, whether on public or private property, and shall agree to hold the City
harmless, indemnify and defend it from all such liabilities incurred or
judgments entered against it as a result of the erection, location, use or
removal of the system. The owner of a NCWECS must demonstrate adequate
liability insurance coverage for the above indemnification.
   2.   Removal. If a Wind Energy Conversion System remains nonfunctional or
inoperative for a continuous period of one year, the system shall be deemed to
be abandoned and shall be deemed to constitute a public nuisance. In such
event, the owner shall remove the system at their expense. Removal of the
system includes the entire structure including foundations, transmission
equipment and fencing from the property. If such removal is required, the
Zoning Administrator shall notify the owner. If the owner fails to remove the
system within 120 days of written notice from the Zoning Administrator, the
City shall have the right to enter the property and perform the removal. If the
City removes a system the cost thereof shall be the responsibility of the owner
and may be recovered by the City in a civil action. In addition, the City shall
have a lien against the lot on which the system is located for the full amount
of the removal costs, which lien may be foreclosed like a mortgage under Iowa
law. The City shall also be entitled to sell the salvage materials from the
removal and apply the proceeds against the removal costs incurred.
   3.   Right of Entry. Upon the acceptance of a special exception permit, the
owner shall be deemed to have granted permission to the City to enter the
premises in order to inspect the Wind Energy Conversion System to assure
compliance with any permit conditions and the provisions of this chapter. In
the event the premises on which the NCWECS is erected is owned by a person
other than the owner, then as a condition to the issuance of the special
exception permit, the owner shall provide the City with a written easement
allowing access to the premises for purposes of inspection and removal of the
system.
CHAPTER 154
TEMPORARY STORAGE CONTAINERS
 
154.01 Purpose                          154.05 Current Violations
154.02 Definitions                      154.06 Conflicts
154.03 Restrictions for On-Site Storage 154.07 Violations - Penalties
Containers on Residential Properties
154.04 Permit Required
 
154.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the placement within the City of
certain On-Site Storage Containers that are designed and intended to be used
for commercial storage, or for the transportation of goods or other cargo, in
order to protect the public health, safety, and welfare, and promote aesthetics
on residential properties in the City of Humboldt.
154.02   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter, the term “On-Site Storage Container” shall mean:
   1.   Any container or vessel designed for or used in the packing, storage,
shipping, movement or transportation of cargo, freight, goods, equipment, or
commodities; and/or
   2.   Any container or vessel designed to be, or capable of being, mounted or
moved by rail, truck, or ship by means of being mounted on a chassis or other
transport device, including portable on-site storage containers, or units
having similar characteristics;
   3.   Any railroad cars, truck vans, converted mobile homes, trailers,
recreational vehicles, bus bodies, vehicles, and similar pre-fabricated items
originally built for purposes other than the storage of goods and materials.
154.03   RESTRICTIONS FOR ON-SITE STORAGE CONTAINERS ON RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES.
   1.   An On-Site Storage Container shall not be considered to be an
“Accessory Building: under
Chapter 165.
   2.   No On-site Storage Container shall be permitted in any residentially-
zoned district of the City, or on any property within the City used for
residential purposes.
   3.   Notwithstanding the provisions set forth in Subsection (1) of this
section, the temporary placement of storage containers and/or portable On-Site
Storage Containers on residentially-zoned properties, or on properties the
primary use of which are residential, for the limited purpose of loading and
unloading household contents shall be permitted for a period of time not
exceeding 14 days in any one calendar year.
   4.   Notwithstanding the provisions set forth in Subsection (2) of this
section, licensed and bonded contractors may use On-Site Storage Containers for
the temporary location of an office, or the temporary storage of equipment,
and/or materials during construction which is taking place on the property
where the cargo container is located, if the use of the cargo container is
authorized pursuant to a City permit under §154.04 below.
154.04    PERMIT REQUIRED.
   1.   A building permit is required prior to placement of an On-Site Storage
Container larger than 200 square feet in area. The proposed On-Site Storage
Container must be accessory to the permitted use of the property, and shall
meet the setback requirements of the underlying zone.
   2.   In the event the On-Site Storage Container is to be used by a licensed
and bonded contractor for the temporary location of an office, or the temporary
storage of equipment, and/or materials during construction which is taking
place on the property where the cargo container is located, residential or
otherwise, a special permit may be issued by the City Administrator for the
time period required for the project.
   3.   Storage Containers shall not be stacked above the height of a single
container, except within the light industrial zone, and only in the rear yard
of the property.
   4.   On-Site Storage Containers shall be kept free of all alpha-numeric
signage and writing other than to identify the owner of a leased storage
container.
   5.   As a condition of placement, On-Site Storage Containers may be required
to be fenced or screened from abutting properties and/or rights-of-way pursuant
to the provisions of the underlying zoning regulations.
   6.   On-Site Storage Containers shall be in an approved designated area and
on the same property as the principal use and be included in the calculation of
overall lot coverage.
   7.   On-Site Storage Containers shall not occupy required off-street
parking, loading, or landscaping areas.
   8.   Materials stored within Storage Containers are subject to inspection
and approval by local and State fire officials.
154.05    CURRENT VIOLATIONS.
All owners of property within the City shall have 120 days from the effective
date of the Ordinance codified in this chapter to bring properties which
currently contain On-Site Storage Containers that are in violation of the terms
of this chapter, into full compliance.
154.06    CONFLICTS.
In the event any conflict exists between the provisions of this chapter and
other currently existing provisions of the Humboldt City Code or other
ordinances of the City, the terms and provisions of this chapter shall take
precedence and to the extent of any such conflict, the terms and conditions of
any existing provisions of the Humboldt City Code or other ordinance of the
City shall be and hereby are amended insofar as necessary to conform to the
provisions of this chapter.
154.07   VIOLATION – PENALTIES.
A violation of the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed to be a municipal
infraction pursuant to Iowa Code §364.22, and subject to enforcement and
remedial action as permitted thereunder.
CHAPTER 160
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
 
160.01 Definintions                     160.08 General Floodplain (Overlay)
                                        District FP
160.02 Statutory Authority, Findings of 160.09 Reserved
Fact and Purpose
160.03 General Provisions               160.10 Appointment and Duties of Board
                                        of Adjustment
160.04 Administration                   160.11 Nonconforming Uses
160.05 Establishment of Zoning (Overlay 160.12 Penalties for Violation
Districts)
160.06 Floodway (Overlay) District (FW) 160.13 Amendments
160.07 Floodway Fringe (Overlay)
District FF
 
160.01 DEFINITIONS.
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   1.   “Appurtenant structure” means a structure which is on the same parcel
of the property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which
is incidental to the use of the principal structure.
   2.   “Base flood” means the flood having one percent chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year and is also commonly referred to as the “100-year
flood.”
   3.   “Base flood elevation” (BFE) means the elevation floodwaters would
reach at a particular site during the occurrence of a base flood event.
   4.   “Basement” means any enclosed area of a building which has its floor or
lowest level below ground level (subgrade) on all sides. Also see “lowest
floor.”
   5.   “Development” means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including (but not limited to) buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations or storage
of equipment or materials. “Development” does not include minor projects or
routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities, as defined in this
section. It also does not include gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling or grading.
   6.   “Enclosed area below lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest
enclosed area in a building when all the following criteria are met:
      A.   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic
pressure during flood events with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions
of Section
160.07(2)(D)(1) of this chapter.
      B.   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, drywalled, etc.) and
used solely for low damage potential uses such as building access, parking, or
storage.
      C.   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater, furnace,
electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at least one
foot above the base flood elevation.
      D.   The enclosed area is not a basement as defined in this section.
   7.   “Existing construction” means any structure for which the start of
construction commenced before the effective date of the first floodplain
management regulations adopted by the community.
   8.   “Existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the
community.
   9.   “Expansion of existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means
the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed
(including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   10.   “Factory-built home” means any structure, designed for residential use
which is wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed or assembled
in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation, on a
building site. For the purpose of this chapter, factory-built homes include
mobile homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes; and also include
recreational vehicles which are placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days and not fully licensed for and ready for highway use.
   11.   “Factory-built home park” means a parcel or contiguous parcels of land
divided into two or more factory-built home lots for sale or lease.
   12.   “500-year flood” means a flood, the magnitude of which has a two-
tenths percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year or which,
on average, will be equaled or exceed at least once every 500 years.
   13.   “Flood” means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or
rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
   14.   “Flood insurance rate map” (FIRM) means the official map prepared as
part of (but published separately from) the flood insurance study which
delineates both the flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community.
   15.   “Flood insurance study” (FIS) means a report published by FEMA for a
community issued along with the community’s flood insurance rate maps. The
study contains such background data as the base flood discharge and water
surface elevations that were used to prepare the FIRM.
   16.   “Floodplain” means any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water as a result of a flood.
   17.   “Floodplain management” means an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use of
floodplains, including (but not limited to) emergency preparedness plans, flood
control works, floodproofing and floodplain management regulations.
   18.   “Floodproofing” means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, including utility and
sanitary facilities, which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to such
structures.
   19.   “Floodway” means the channel of a river or stream and those portions
of the floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to
carry and discharge flood waters or flood flows so that confinement of flood
flows to the floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot.
   20.   “Floodway fringe” means those portions of the Special Flood Hazard
Area outside the floodway.
   21.   “Highest adjacent grade” means the highest natural elevation of the
ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   22.   “Historic structure” means any structure that is:
      A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places,
maintained by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily determined by the
Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing in
the National Register;
      B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior.
      D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either: (i) by an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or (ii) directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   23.   “Lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest enclosed area in a
building including a basement except when the criteria listed in the definition
of enclosed area below lowest floor are met.
   24.   “Maximum damage potential development” means hospitals and like
institutions; buildings or building complexes containing documents, data, or
instruments of great public value; buildings or building complexes containing
materials dangerous to the public or fuel storage facilities; power
installations needed in emergency or other buildings or building complexes
similar in nature or use.
   25.   “Minor Projects” means small development activities (except for
filling, grading, and excavating) valued at less than $500.00.
   26.   “New construction” (new buildings, factory-built home parks, accessory
structures) means those structures or development for which the start of
construction commenced on or after the effective date of the first floodplain
management regulations adopted by the community.
   27.   “New factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after
the effective date of the effective date of the first floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   28.   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle which is:
      A.   Built on a single chassis.
      B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection.
      C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck.
      D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   29.   “Routine maintenance of existing building and facilities” means
repairs necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that do
not trigger a building permit, provided they are not associated with a general
improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such repairs
include:
      A.   Normal maintenance of structures such as re-roofing, replacing
roofing tiles and replacing siding.
      B.   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting,
cabinets, counter tops and similar finish work.
      C.   Basement sealing.
      D.   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes.
      E.   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating or air
conditioning systems, and repairing wells or septic systems.
   30.    “Special flood hazard area” (SFHA) means the land within a community
subject to the base flood. This land is identified on the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map as Zone A, A1-30, AE, AH, AO, AR, and/or A99.
   31.   “Start of construction” includes substantial improvement, and means
the date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement or permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as pouring of a slab or footings, the installation of pile, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a factory-built home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   32.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected on the ground or
attached to the ground, including (but not limited to) buildings, factories,
sheds, cabins, factory-built homes, storage tanks, grain storage facilities,
and/or other similar uses.
   33.   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a
structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage
condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred. Volunteer labor and donated materials shall be
included in the estimated cost of repair.
   34.   “Substantial improvement” means any improvement to a structure which
satisfies either of the following criteria:
      A.   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure
either: (i) before the start of construction of the improvement; or (ii) if the
structure has been substantially damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred.
   The term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a
structure to correct existing violations of State or local health, sanitary, or
safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code
enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living
conditions. The term also does not include any alteration of an historic
structure, provided the alteration will not preclude the structure’s
designation as a historic structure.
      B.   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a building
by 25 percent or more. All additions constructed after the effective date of
the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the community shall be
added to any proposed addition in determining whether the total increase in
original floor space would exceed 25 percent.
   35.   “Variance” means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of
the floodplain management regulations.
   36.   “Violation” means the failure of a structure or other development to
be fully compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
160.02    STATUTORY AUTHORITY, FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSE.
   1.   The Legislature of the State of Iowa has in Chapter 414, Code of Iowa,
as amended, delegated the power to cities to enact zoning regulations to secure
safety from flood and to promote health and general welfare.
   2.   Findings of Fact.
      A.   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic
inundation which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare of
the community.
      B.   These flood losses, hazards, and related adverse effects are caused
by: (i) the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood damages
which create hazardous conditions as a result of being inadequately elevated or
otherwise protected from flooding; and (ii) the cumulative effect of
obstructions on the floodplain causing increases in flood heights and
velocities.
      C.   This chapter relies upon engineering methodology for analyzing flood
hazards which is consistent with the standards established by the Department of
Natural Resources.
   3.   Statement of Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to protect and
preserve the rights, privileges, and property of the City and its residents and
to preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, and comfort and
convenience of its residents by minimizing those flood losses described in
Paragraph 2(A) of this section with provisions designed to:
      A.   Reserve sufficient floodplain area for the conveyance of flood flows
so that flood heights and velocities will not be increased substantially.
      B.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities.
      C.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction or substantial improvement.
      D.   Protect individuals from buying lands which may not be suited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard.
      E.   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance
Program.
160.03    GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   1.   Lands to Which Chapter Applies. The provisions of this chapter shall
apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the City shown on the Official
Floodplain Zoning Map as being within the boundaries of the Floodway, Floodway
Fringe, and General Floodplain (Overlay) Districts, as established in Section
160.05 of this chapter.
   2.   Establishment of Official Floodplain Zoning Map. The Flood Insurance
Rate Maps (FIRM) for Humboldt County and Incorporated Areas, City of Humboldt,
Panels 19091C0301D, 0302C, 0303D, and 0304D, dated June 1, 2022, which were
prepared as part of the Flood Insurance Study for Humboldt County are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be the Official Floodplain Zoning Map. The
flood profiles and all explanatory material contained with the flood insurance
study are also declared to be a part of this chapter.
   3.   Rules for Interpretation of District Boundaries. The boundaries of the
zoning district areas shall be determined by scaling distances on the Official
Floodplain Zoning Map. When an interpretation is needed as to the exact
location of a boundary, the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it
is alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   4.   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be used and no
structure shall be located, extended, converted, or structurally altered
without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   5.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. It is not intended by this chapter
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provision of this chapter shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent with
this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   6.   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the provisions
of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by State statutes.
   7.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The standards required by this
chapter are considered reasonable for regulatory purposes. This chapter does
not imply that areas outside the designated Floodplain (Overlay) District areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the City or any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
   8.   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
160.04    ADMINISTRATION.
   1.   Appointment, Duties and Responsibilities of Local Official. The Zoning
Administrator is hereby appointed to implement and administer the provisions of
this chapter and will herein be referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include (but
not necessarily be limited to) the following:
      A.   Review all floodplain development permit applications to assure that
the provisions of this chapter will be satisfied.
      B.   Review floodplain development applications to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from federal, State, and local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Department of
Natural Resources for floodplain construction.
      C.   Record and maintain a record of: (i) the elevation (in relation to
North American Vertical Datum 1988) of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new or substantially improved structures; or (ii) the elevation to which
new or substantially improved structures have been floodproofed.
      D.   Notify adjacent communities/counties and the Department of Natural
Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a watercourse and
submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
      E.    Keep a record of all permits, appeals, and such other transactions
and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this chapter.
      F.   Submit to the Federal Insurance Administrator an annual report
concerning the community’s participation, utilizing the annual report form
supplied by the Federal Insurance Administrator.
      G.   Notify the Federal Insurance Administrator of any annexations or
modifications to the community’s boundaries.
      H.   Review subdivision proposals to ensure such proposals are consistent
with the purpose of this chapter and advise the Board of Adjustment of
potential conflict.
      I.   Maintain the accuracy of the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Maps
when:
         (1)   Development placed within the Floodway (Overlay) District
results in any of the following:
            a.   An increase in the Base Flood Elevations; or
            b.   Alteration to the floodway boundary;
         (2)   Development placed in Zones A, AE, AH, and A1-30 that does not
include a designated floodway that will cause a rise of more than one foot in
the base elevation; or
         (3)   Development relocates or alters the channel.
      Within six months of the completion of the development, the applicant
shall submit to FEMA all scientific and technical data necessary for a Letter
of Map Revision.
      J.   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with the standards of
this chapter.
      K.   Forward all requests for variance to the Board of Adjustment for
consideration. Ensure all requests include the information ordinarily submitted
with applications as well as any additional information deemed necessary to the
Board of Adjustment.
   2.   Floodplain Development Permit.
      A.   Permit Required. A floodplain development permit issued by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be secured prior to any floodplain development
(any man-made change to improved and unimproved real estate, including but not
limited to buildings or other structures, mining, filling, grading, paving,
excavation, storage of materials, or drilling operations), including the
placement of factory-built homes.
      B.   Application for Permit. Application shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator and shall include the following:
         (1)   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is to be made.
         (2)   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done
(e.g., lot, block, track, street address or similar description) that will
readily identify and locate the work to be done.
         (3)   Location and dimensions of all structures and additions.
         (4)   Indication of the use or occupancy for which the proposed work
is intended.
         (5)   Elevation of the base flood.
|         (6)   Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988)
of the lowest floor (including basement) of structure or of the level to which
a structure is to be floodproofed.
         (7)   For structures being improved or rebuilt, the estimated cost of
improvements and market value of the structure prior to the improvements.
         (8)   Such other information as the Floodplain Administrator deems
reasonably necessary (e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of this
chapter.
      C.   Action on Permit Application. The Floodplain Administrator shall,
within a reasonable time, make a determination as to whether the proposed
floodplain development meets the applicable standards of this chapter and shall
approved or disapprove the application. For disapprovals, the applicant shall
be informed, in writing, of the specific reasons therefor. The Floodplain
Administrator shall not issue permits for variances except as directed by the
Board of Adjustment.
      D.   Construction and Use to Be as Provided in Application and Plans.
Floodplain development permits based on the basis of approved plans and
applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in
such approved plans and applications and not other use, arrangement, or
construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. The applicant shall be
required to submit certification by a professional engineer or land surveyor,
as appropriate, registered in the State of Iowa, that the finished fill,
structure floor elevations, floodproofing, or other flood protection measures
were accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to
the use or occupancy of any structure.
160.05    ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING (OVERLAY) DISTRICTS.
The floodplain areas within the jurisdiction of this chapter are hereby divided
into the following districts:
   1.   Floodway (Overlay) District (FW) – those areas identified as Floodway
on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map.
   2.   Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District (FF) – those areas identified as
Zone AE on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map but excluding those areas
identified as Floodway.
   3.   General Floodplain (Overlay) District (GF) – those areas identified as
Zone A on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map.
The boundaries are as shown on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map. Within these
districts, all uses not allowed as permitted uses are prohibited unless a
variance to the terms of this chapter is granted after due consideration by the
Board of Adjustment.
160.06    FLOODWAY (OVERLAY) DISTRICT (FW).
   1.   Permitted Uses. All development within the Floodplain District shall be
permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance (or
underlying zoning district) and provided they meet applicable performance
standards of the Floodway District
   .2.   Performance Standards. All Floodway District uses allowed as a
permitted use shall meet the following standards:
      A.   No development shall be permitted in the Floodway District that
would result in any increase in the base flood elevation. Consideration of the
effects of any development on flood levels shall be based upon the assumption
that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly situated
lands.
      B.   All development within the Floodway District shall:
         (1)   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
         (2)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
         (3)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage.
      C.   No development shall affect the capacity or conveyance of the
channel or floodway of any tributary to the main stream, drainage ditch, or any
other drainage facility or system.
      D.   Structures, buildings, recreational vehicles and sanitary and
utility systems, if permitted, shall meet the applicable performance standards
of the Floodway Fringe District and shall be constructed or aligned to present
the minimum possible resistance to flood flows.
      E.   Structures, if permitted, shall have a low flood damage potential
and shall not be for human habitation.
      F.   Storage of materials or equipment that are buoyant, flammable,
explosive or injurious to human, animal or plant life is prohibited. Storage of
other material may be allowed if readily removable from the Floodway District
within the time available after flood warning.
      G.   Watercourse alterations or relocations (channel changes and
modifications) must be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within
the altered or relocated portion. In addition, such alterations or relocations
must be approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
      H.   Any fill allowed in the floodway must be shown to have some
beneficial purpose and shall be limited to the minimum amount necessary.
      I.   Pipeline river or stream crossings shall be buried in the streambed
and banks or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent rupture due to channel
degradation and meandering or due to the action of flood flows.
160.07    FLOODWAY FRINGE (OVERLAY) DISTRICT FF.
   1.   Permitted Uses. All development within the Floodway Fringe District
shall be permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other
ordinances (or underlying zoning district) and provided they meet applicable
performance standards of the Floodway Fringe District.
   2.   Performance Standards. All development must be consistent with the need
to minimize flood damage and meet the following applicable performance
standards. Until a regulatory floodway is designated, no development may
increase the Base Flood Elevation more than one (1) foot. The applicant will be
responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources with sufficient
technical information to make such determination.
      A.   All development shall:
         (1)   Be designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement.
         (2)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
         (3)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage.
      B.   Residential Structures. All new or substantially improved
residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation. Construction
shall be upon compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no lower than one
foot above the base flood elevation and extend at such elevation at least 18
feet beyond the limits of any structure erected thereon. Alternate methods of
elevating (such as piers or extended foundations) may be allowed where existing
topography, street grades, or other factors preclude elevating by fill. In such
cases, the methods used must be adequate to support the structure as well as
withstand the various forces and hazards associated with flooding. All new
residential structures located in areas that would become isolated due to
flooding of surrounding ground shall be provided with a means of access which
will be passable by wheeled vehicles during the base flood. However, this
criterion shall not apply where the Floodplain Administrator determines there
is sufficient flood warning time for the protection of life and property. When
estimating flood warning time, consideration shall be given to the criteria
listed in 567-75.2(3), Iowa Administrative Code.
      C.   Nonresidential Structures. All new or substantially improved
nonresidential structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation, or together with
attendant utility and sanitary systems, be floodproofed to such a level. When
floodproofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in the State of
Iowa shall certify that the floodproofing methods used are adequate to
withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces and
other factors associated with the base flood; and that the structure, below the
base flood elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water. A record of the certification indicating the specific
elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain
Administrator.
      D.   All New and Substantially Improved Structures.
         (1)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (not including
basements) that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
            a.   A minimum of two openings, with positioning on at least two
(2) walls, having a total net are of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.
            b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
            c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
         Such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles, building
access and low damage potential storage.
         (2)   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
         (3)   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed
with electric meter, electrical service panel box, hot water heater, heating,
air conditioning, ventilation equipment (including ductwork), and other similar
machinery and equipment elevated (or in the case on non-residential structures,
optionally floodproofed to) a minimum of one (1) foot above the base flood
elevation.
         (4)   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed
with plumbing, gas lines, water/gas meters and other similar service utilities
either elevated (or in the case of non-residential structures, optionally
floodproofed to) a minimum of one (1) foot above the base flood elevation or
designed to be watertight and withstand inundation to such a level.
      E.   Factory-Built Homes.
         (1)   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes,
including those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions,
shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
structure is a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation.
         (2)   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes,
including those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions,
shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Anchorage
systems may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties
to ground anchors as required by the State Building Code.
      F.   Utility and Sanitary Systems.
         (1)   On-site waste disposal and water supply systems shall be located
or designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the system
during flooding.
         (2)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system
as well as the discharge of effluent into flood waters. Wastewater treatment
facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a level of flood
protection equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood elevation.
         (3)   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system. Water
supply treatment facilities (other than on-sie systems) shall be provided with
a level of protection equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood
elevation.
         (4)   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.
      G.   Storage of Equipment and Materials. Storage of equipment and
materials that are flammable, explosive, or injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited unless elevated a minimum of one foot above the base
flood elevation. Other material and equipment must either be similarly elevated
or: (i) not be subject to major flood damage and anchored to prevent movement
due to flood waters; or (ii) readily removable from the area within the time
available after flood warning.
      H.   Flood Control Structures. Flood control structural works such as
levees, flood walls, etc. shall provide, at a minimum, protection from the base
flood with a minimum of three feet of design freeboard and shall provide for
adequate interior drainage. In addition, the Department of Natural Resources
shall approve structural flood control works.
      I.   Watercourse Alterations. Watercourse alterations or relocations must
be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion. In addition, the Department of Natural Resources must
approve such alterations or relocations.
      J.   Subdivision. Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks and
subdivisions) shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
Development associated with subdivision proposals (including the installation
of public utilities) shall meet the applicable performance standards of this
chapter. Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide all
lots with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during
the base flood. Proposals for subdivisions greater than five acres or 50 lots
(whichever is less) shall include base flood elevation data for those areas
located within the Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District.
      K.   Accessory Structures to Residential Uses.
         (1)   Detached garages, sheds, and similar structures that are
incidental to a residential use are exempt from the base flood elevation
requirements where the following criteria are satisfied:
            a.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential. Its size shall not exceed 600 sq. ft. in size. Those portions of the
structure located less than 1 foot above the base flood elevation must be
constructed of flood-resistant materials.
            b.   The structure shall be used solely for low flood damage
potential purposes such as vehicle parking and limited storage. The structure
shall not be used for human habitation.
            c.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
            d.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement which may result in damage to other structures.
            e.   The structure's service facilities such as electrical and
heating equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed to at least one foot above
the base flood elevation.
            f.   The structure’s wall shall include openings that satisfy the
provisions of Paragraph D(1) of this subsection.
         (2)   Exemption from the base flood elevation requirements for such a
structure may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance coverage of
the structure and its contents.
      L.   Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles are exempt from the
requirements of Paragraph E of this subsection regarding anchoring and
elevation of factory-built homes when the following criteria are satisfied.
         (1)   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for less
than 180 consecutive days, and
         (2)   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
      Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more than 180
consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must satisfy requirements of
Paragraph E of this subsection regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-
built homes.
      M.   Pipeline Crossings. Pipeline river and stream crossings shall be
buried in the streambed and banks, or otherwise sufficiently protected to
prevent rupture due to channel degradation and meandering.
      N.   Maximum Damage Potential Development. All new or substantially
improved maximum damage potential development shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated a minimum of one (1) foot above the elevation of
the 500-year flood, or together with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be
floodproofed to such a level. When floodproofing is utilized, a professional
engineer registered in the State of Iowa shall certify that the floodproofing
methods used are adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities,
impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with the 0.2% annual
chance flood; and that the structure, below the 0.2% annual chance flood
elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water. A record of the certification indicating the specific elevation (in
relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the Administrator. Where 0.2% chance flood
elevation data has not been provided in the Flood Insurance Study, the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources shall be contacted to compute such data. The
applicant will be responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources
with sufficient technical information to make such determinations.
160.08    GENERAL FLOODPLAIN (OVERLAY) DISTRICT FP.
    1.   Permitted Uses. All development within the General Floodplain District
shall be permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other
ordinance (or underlying zoning district) and provided they meet the applicable
performance standards of the General Floodplain District.
      A.   Any development which involves placement of structures, factory-
built homes, fill or other obstructions, storage of materials or equipment,
excavation or alteration of a watercourse shall be reviewed by the Department
of Natural Resources to determine: (i) whether the land involved is either
wholly or partly within the floodway or floodway fringe; and (ii) the base
flood elevation. The applicant shall be responsible for providing the
Department of Natural Resources with sufficient technical information to make
the determination.
      B.   Review by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources is not required
for the proposed construction of new or replacement bridges or culverts where:
         (1)   The bridge or culvert is located on a stream that drains less
than two square miles; and
         (2)   The bridge or culvert is not associated with a channel
modification that constitutes a channel change as specified in 567-71.2(2),
Iowa Administrative Code.
   2.   Performance Standards.
      A.   All development, or portions thereof, to be located in the floodway
as determined by the Department of Natural Resources shall meet the applicable
provisions and standards of the Floodway (Overlay) District (Section
160.06).
      B.   All development, or portions thereof, to be located in the floodway
fringe as determined by the Department of Natural Resources shall meet the
applicable provisions and standards of the Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District
(Section
160.07).
160.09    RESERVED.
 
160.10    ESTABLISHMENT OF APPEAL AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide: (i) appeals; and (ii) requests
for variances to the provisions of this chapter, and shall take any other
action which is required of the Board.
   1.   Appeals. Where it is alleged there is any error in any order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative official in
the enforcement of this chapter, the aggrieved party may appeal such action.
The notice of appeal shall be filed with the Board and with the official from
whom the appeal is taken and shall set forth the specific reason for the
appeal. The official from whom the appeal is taken shall transmit to the Board
all the documents constituting the record upon which the action appealed from
was taken.
   2.   Variance. The Board may authorize upon request in specific cases such
variances from the terms of this chapter that will not be contrary to the
public interest where, owing to special conditions a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary hardship. Variances
granted must meet the following applicable standards.
      A.   Variances shall only be granted upon: (i) a showing of good and
sufficient cause; (ii) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and (iii) a determination that
the granting of the variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or conflict with
existing local codes or ordinances.
      B.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood would result. Consideration of
the effects of any development on flood levels shall be based upon the
assumption that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly
situated lands.
      C.   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      D.   In cases where the variance involves a lower level of flood
protection for structures than what is ordinarily required by this chapter, the
applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature of the Floodplain
Administrator that: (i) the issuance of a variance will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25.00 for $100.00
of insurance coverage; and (ii) such construction increases risks to life and
property.
      E.   All variances granted shall have the concurrence or approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
   3.   Hearings and Decisions of the Board.
      A.   Hearings. Upon the filing with the Board of an appeal or a request
for a variance, the Board shall hold a public hearing. The Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the hearing and give public notice thereof, as well as due
notice to parties in interest. At the hearing, any party may appear in person
or by agent or attorney and present written or oral evidence. The Board may
require the appellant or applicant to provide such information as is reasonably
deemed necessary and may request the technical assistance and/or evaluation of
a professional engineer or other expert person or agency, including the
Department of Natural Resources.
      B.   Decisions. The Board shall arrive at a decision on an appeal or
variance within a reasonable time. In passing upon an appeal, the Board may, so
long as such action is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter,
reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination appealed from, and it shall make its decision, in
writing, setting forth the findings of fact and the reasons for its decision.
In granting a variance, the Board shall consider such factors as contained in
this section and all other relevant sections of this chapter and may prescribe
such conditions as contained in Subparagraph (2) of this paragraph.
         (1)   Factors Upon Which the Decision of the Board Shall Be Based. In
passing upon applications for variances, the Board shall consider all relevant
factors specified in other sections of this chapter and:
            a.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights
or velocities caused by encroachments.
            b.   The danger that materials may be swept on to other land or
downstream to the injury of others.
            c.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the
ability of these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary
conditions.
            d.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents
to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
            e.   The importance of the service provided by the proposed
facility to the City.
            f.   The requirements of the facility for a floodplain location.
            g.   The availability of alternate locations not subject to
flooding for the proposed use.
            h.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing
development and development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
            i.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for the area.
            j.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
            k.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood water expected at the site.
            l.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer,
gas, electrical, and water systems), facilities, streets, and bridges.
            m.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this
chapter.
         (2)   Conditions Attached to Variances. Upon consideration of the
factors listed above, the Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deem necessary to further the purpose of this chapter. Such
conditions may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
            a.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
            b.   Limitation on periods of use and operation.
            c.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
            d.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes,
levees, and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the
Department of Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative
to achieving the purpose of this chapter.
            e.   Floodproofing measures shall be designed consistent with the
flood protection elevation for the particular area, flood velocities,
durations, rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, and other factors
associated with the regulatory flood. The Board shall require that the
applicant submit a plan or document certified by a registered professional
engineer that the floodproofing measures are consistent with the regulatory
flood protection elevation and associated flood factors for the particular
area.
   4.   Appeals to the Court. Any person or persons, jointly or severally,
aggrieved by any decision of the Board may present to a court of record a
petition, duly verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole
or in part, specifying the grounds of illegality. Such petition shall be
presented to the court within thirty days after the filing of the decision in
the office of the Board.
160.11    NONCONFORMING USES.
   1.   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of the ordinance codified in this chapter, but
which is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, may be
continued subject to the following conditions:
      A.   If such use is discontinued for six consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
      B.   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   2.   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50
percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred, unless
it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
State or local health, sanitary, building or safety codes or regulations or the
cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation.
Except as provided in Subsection 1(B) of this section, any use which has been
permitted as a variance shall be considered a conforming use.
160.12    PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
the requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variances) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any
person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $500.00 or
imprisoned for not more than 30 days. Each day such violation continues shall
be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained prevent the City
from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy
violation.
160.13    AMENDMENTS.
The regulations and standards set forth in this chapter may from time to time
be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed. No amendment, supplement,
change, or modification shall be undertaken without prior approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
(Chapter 160 – Ord. 2022-01 – Jun. 22 Supp.)
CHAPTER 165
ZONING REGULATIONS
165.01 Definitions                     165.11 C-1 Central Business District
165.02 General Regulations             165.12 C-2 General Commercial District
165.03 Establishment of Districts      165.13 C-3 Central Business Implement
                                       District
165.04 Nonconforming Uses, Buildings,  165.14 I-1 General Industrial District
Structures
165.05 A-1 Agricultural District       165.15 I-2 Heavy Industrial District
165.06 R-I Single-Family Residential   165.16 Administration and Enforcement
District
165.07 R-2 Two-Family Residential      165.17 Board of Adjustment
District
165.08 R-3 Multiple-Family Residential 165.18 Amendments
District
165.09 M-1 Mobile Home Residential     165.19 Special Use Permits
District
165.10 PUD Planned Unit Development
District
 
165.01 DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this chapter, certain words, terms and expressions are
herein defined.
   1.   “Accessory building” means a subordinate building, the use of which is
incidental to that of the principal building or to the principal use of the
premises. An accessory use is one which is incidental to the main use of the
premises.
   2.   “Alley” means a public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary
means of access to abutting property.
   3.   “Alteration, structural” means any change in the load bearing members
of a building, such as bearing walls, partitions, columns, beams, or girders.
The enlargement of the size or height of a building shall be construed to be a
structural alteration.
   4.   “Apartment” means a room or suite of rooms, with toilet and culinary
accommodations, used or designed for use as a residence by a family, located in
a building containing two or more such rooms or suites or in a building devoted
primarily to nonresidential use.
   5.   “Apothecary shop” means a shop operated as a retail use which sells
only drugs, prescription medicines, medical supplies and appliances and
pharmaceutical products.
   6.   “Attic” means a space under a gable, hip or gambrel, or other roof, the
finished floor of which is, or would be, at or entirely above the level of the
wall plates of at least two exterior walls, and the height of which from the
floor level to the highest point of the roof, does not exceed 10 feet.
   7.   “Basement” means an area partly underground but having at least one
half (½) of the height of one or more walls above the highest level of the
adjoining ground. A basement shall be counted as a story under the provisions
of this chapter. (See “cellar.”)
   8.   “Billboard” means any flat surface 20 square feet or more in area,
erected on a framework, or attached to posts, buildings or other structures,
and used for the display of bills, posters or other advertising matter, pasted,
painted, tacked or fastened thereto.
   9.   “Boarding house” means a building, other than a hotel, fraternity house
or sorority house, where meals are regularly served for compensation to more
than three persons not members of the family there residing.
   10.   “Building” means a structure having a roof supported by columns or
walls for shelter, support, or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels. When
separated by division walls from the ground up without openings, each portion
of such structure shall be deemed a separate building.
   11.   “Building, height of” means the vertical distance from the average
grade at the front building line to the highest point of the coping of a flat
roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the mean height level between
eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
   12.   “Building line” means a line as established under the provisions of
the State Code.
   13.   “Building wall” means the wall of the principal building forming a
part of the main structure. The foundation walls of unenclosed porches or
piazzas, steps and retaining walls or similar structures shall not be
considered as building walls under the provisions of this chapter.
   14.   “Cellar” means a story having more than one half (½) of the height of
all walls below the highest level of the adjoining ground. A cellar is not
considered as a story for the purpose of this chapter.
   15.   “Clinic, dental or medical” means a building in which a group of
physicians, dentists or physicians and dentists and allied professional
assistants are associated for the purpose of carrying on their profession. The
clinic may include a dental or medical laboratory. It shall not include
inpatient care or operating rooms for major surgery.
   16.   “Club” or “lodge” (private) means an association of persons for the
promotion of some nonprofit object, who are bona fide members paying annual
dues.
   17.   “Convalescent home” means a building or premises in or on which care
is provided for two or more invalid, infirm, aged, convalescent, or physically
disabled or injured persons, not including insane or other mental cases,
inebriate, or contagious cases. Nursing homes are convalescent homes.
   18.   “Day care” refers to any agency, institution, establishment or place
which provides for compensation, supplemental parental care and/or educational
work, other than overnight lodging, for three or more unrelated children of any
age. Day care service shall be an allowable use in residential and commercial
zoning districts. The following regulations shall apply:
      A.   A sign shall be allowed to be placed on the exterior of the
residences which acknowledges the activity conducted within, but which does not
exceed one square foot in size.
      B.   The only equipment, mechanical or other, used is customary and
incidental to the services being offered; this includes outdoor play equipment.
      C.   The activity is restricted to the structure and property.
      D.   Provisions shall be made to lessen the impact of outside play areas
on surrounding property owners.
      E.   Off-street loading and unloading for a minimum of two vehicles shall
be provided.
      F.   The registration is non-transferable.
Home day care services are permissible upon registration at the City Clerk’s
office. This chapter shall not be interpreted to preclude or alter any
regulations for the licensing of such facilities with the State, or
requirements imposed by the State. Facilities operating within the City must
comply with all Federal, State and local statutes. Day care service provided in
commercial zoning districts must comply with that district’s restrictions as
well.
   19.   “Dwelling, single-family” means a building designed and occupied
exclusively by one family.
   20.   “Dwelling, two-family” means a building designed for and occupied
exclusively by two families.
   21.   “Dwelling, multiple-family” means a building designed for or occupied
exclusively by more than two families.
   22.   “Exterior alterations” means any change, construction or modification
which alters the outside dimensions of the structure including changes which
alter permanent living space of dwelling house.
   23.   “Factory-built housing” means a factory-built structure designed for
long-term residential use. For the purposes of these regulations, factory-built
housing consists of three types: modular homes, mobile homes and manufactured
homes.
   24.   “Factory-built structure” means any structure which is, wholly or in
substantial part, made, fabricated, formed or assembled in manufacturing
facilities for installation, or assembly and installation, on a building site.
   25.   “Garage, private” means an accessory building or portion of a building
used only for the shelter and/or storage of vehicles by the occupants of the
dwelling, or the leasing of space as provided herein, including covered parking
space or carport.
   26.   “Garage, public” means a building or portion of a building in which
motor vehicles are equipped for operation, repaired, stored, or kept for
remuneration, hire, or sale.
   27.   “Home occupation” refers to the permissible use of a private residence
for the conducting of an occupation or profession by an immediate member of the
residing family, which does not require the sale of any commodity on the
premises, and which does not require the business public to come onto the
premises to accomplish the activity, and which meets the following
restrictions:
      A.   A name plate shall be allowed to be placed on the exterior of the
residence which acknowledges the activity conducted within, but which does not
exceed one square foot in size.
      B.   No commodity is sold upon the premises.
      C.   No person is employed other than those members of the immediate
family residing at the premises.
      D.   The only equipment, mechanical or other, used is customary and
incidental to the household.
      E.   The activity is solely restricted to the existing structure and does
not occupy more than 25% of the total square footage of livable space,
excluding attics, crawl spaces and unfinished basements.
      F.   The activity does not require the business public to come directly
onto the premises to accomplish such activity.
      G.   The permit is non-transferable.
Home occupations are permissible upon permit only, which may be applied for at
the City Clerk’s office. The proposed premises must first be inspected to
confirm compliance, and approved by the Zoning Administrator, prior to the
issuance of such permit.
   28.   “Hospital” means an institution providing health services, primarily
for in-patients, and medical and surgical care of the sick and injured,
including as an integral part of the institution such related facilities as
laboratories, central service facilities, and staff offices.
   29.   “Hotel” means a building occupied as the more or less temporary
abiding place of individuals who are lodged with or without meals and in which
there are more than 25 sleeping rooms usually occupied independently.
   30.   “Junk yard” or “salvage yard” means an open area on any lot or parcel
of land which is used for the storage, abandonment or keeping of junk,
including scrap metals or scrap materials, or for the abandonment or
dismantling of machinery, motor vehicles, or other vehicles, or parts thereof.
   31.   “Lodging house” means a building where lodging or boarding is provided
for compensation for five or more, but not exceeding 20 persons not members of
the family there residing.
   32.   “Lot” means a parcel of land under one ownership on which a principal
building and its accessories are or may be placed, together with the required
open spaces, having its frontage upon one or more streets or public place.
   33.   “Manufactured home” means a factory-built, single-family structure,
which is manufactured or constructed under the authority of 42 U.S.C. Sec.
5403, Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, and is to be
used as a place for human habitation, but which is not constructed with a
permanent hitch or other device allowing it to be moved other than for the
purpose of moving to a permanent site, and which does not have permanently
attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles. A mobile home is not a
manufactured home unless it has been converted to real property and is taxed as
a site-built dwelling. For the purpose of these regulations, a manufactured
home shall be considered the same as any site-built, single-family detached
dwelling.
   34.   “Mini-storage unit” is defined as a building which is used primarily
for the temporary or permanent enclosed storage of vehicles, boats, trailers,
household items and other items generally associated with residential or
commercial activity. This specifically does not include warehousing of a
manufacturing, light industrial, or heavy industrial use.
   35.   “Mobile home” means any vehicle without motive power used or so
manufactured or constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon
the public streets and highways and so designed, constructed or reconstructed
as will permit the vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or
more persons; but also includes any such vehicle with motive power not
registered as a motor vehicle in Iowa. A mobile home is factory-built housing
built on a chassis. A mobile home shall not be construed to be a travel trailer
or other form of recreational vehicle. A mobile home shall be construed to
remain a mobile home, subject to all regulations applying thereto, whether or
not wheels, axles, hitch, or other appurtenances of mobility are removed and
regardless of the nature of the foundation provided. However, certain mobile
homes may be classified as “manufactured homes.” Nothing in this chapter shall
be construed as permitting the mobile home in other than an approved mobile
home park, unless such mobile home is classified as a manufactured home. In
addition to the foregoing conditions, the differentiation between a mobile home
and manufactured housing is further defined in that any prefabricated structure
coming under the scrutiny of this section which has less than a minimum
habitable width of 24 feet and has less than a minimum habitable floor space of
1,000 square feet shall be considered a mobile home for purposes of this Code
of Ordinances.
   36.   “Mobile home park” means any site, lot, field, or tract of land upon
which two or more occupied mobile homes are harbored, either free of charge or
for revenue purposes, and includes any building, structure, tent, vehicle, or
enclosure used or intended for use as part of such mobile home park.
   37.   “Modular home” means factory-built housing certified as meeting the
State Building Code as applicable to modular housing. Once certified by the
State, modular homes shall be subject to the same standards as site-built
homes.
   38.   “Nonconforming use” means the lawful use of a building or land on the
effective date of the Zoning Ordinance codified by this chapter or amendment
thereto, which use does not conform to the provisions of this chapter for the
district in which it is located.
   39.   “Office” means a place where businesses or services for others is
transacted and not a place where chattels or goods, wares or merchandise are
commonly created, exchanged or sold.
   40.   “Parking space” means a surfaced area, enclosed or unenclosed, on a
lot, sufficient in size to store one standard automobile, together with a
driveway connecting the parking space with a public place, street or alley.
   41.   “Preschool nursery” means the facilities of any dwelling, institution
or organization which, for profit or nonprofit, are used in the temporary care
of six children or more at any one time.
   42.   “Public place” means an open or unoccupied public space more 20 feet
in width which is permanently reserved for the purpose of primary access to
abutting property.
   43.   “Retail store” means a place where goods are for sale to the ultimate
consumer for direct consumption and not for resale.
   44.   “Setback” means the required distance between a lot line and the
closest wall of a conforming structure on the lot.
   45.   “Shop” means a use devoted primarily to the sale of a service or
products, but the service is performed or the product to be sold is prepared in
its finished form on the premises. Packaging is not considered to be
preparation.
   46.   “Sign, advertising or poster board” means a structure, regardless of
the material used in the construction of the same, that is erected, maintained
or used to advertise a business or attraction.
   47.   “Story” means that part of a building comprised between any floor and
the floor or attic next above; the first story of a building is the lowest
story having at least one-half (½) of its height of one or more walls above the
highest level of adjoining ground.
   48.   “Surfaced area” means any area covered by concrete, asphalt, gravel,
rock, stone, brick or related material not including vegetation or building.
   49.   “Yard” means an open space extending across the full width or length
of the lot lying between the lot line and the nearest line of the main building
other than unenclosed porches, steps or unenclosed balconies.
   50.   “Yard, front” means the area between the street and front building
line of main building excluding steps, porches or unenclosed balconies and
extending the entire width of the lot.
   51.   “Yard, rear” means that area between the rear of the main building
line excluding porches, steps or unenclosed balconies between the rear of the
main building and the rear lot line.
   52.   “Yard, side” means the area from the front line of the main building
and extending to the rear line of the main building at 90º to the front
building line of the main building.
165.02    GENERAL REGULATIONS.
The following regulations apply to all districts and all other provisions of
this chapter:
   1.   Restrictions on Use. Unless otherwise specified, no use shall be
permitted in any district which is prohibited in any less restricted district.
   2.   Residences to the Rear of Principal Building Prohibited. No building to
the rear of the principal building on the same interior lot shall be used for
residential purposes.
   3.   Required Areas May Not Be Reduced. No lot shall be so reduced in area
that any required yard, court, or other open space will be smaller than is
prescribed in this chapter for the district in which it is located.
   4.   Subdivision Required. Not more than two dwellings are permitted on any
lot, tract or parcel of land until it has been subdivided in accordance with
the provisions of Chapter 354 of the Code of Iowa.
   5.   Yard and Area Requirements. No yard or other open space provided about
any building for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this chapter
shall be considered as providing a yard or open space for any other building,
nor shall the lot area per family be reduced in any manner except in conformity
with the area regulations herein established for the district in which such
building is located.
   6.   Method of Yard Measurement. The setback for front, rear and side yards
shall be in all cases measured at right angles from the lot line.
   7.   Building Classifications. Any portion of a building which is covered by
a roof shall be considered as part of the building.
   8.   Frontage on Corner Lots. The owner of a corner lot may elect to front
the principal building on such lot on either of the two streets upon which the
corner lot abuts, and shall maintain building setback the side abutting any
street of 30 feet or in line with the majority of existing main buildings
(excluding accessory buildings) on the same block.
   9.   Visibility at Intersections. Nothing shall be erected, placed, planted
or allowed to grow which will impede vision between a height of 2½ feet and 10
feet above the street in the area bounded by the street right-of-way line and a
line joining points 30 feet from the right-of-way line intersection.
   10.   Fences, Walls and Hedges. No fence, wall or hedge over 4 feet in
height will be permitted along the front of any residential lot or sides of
front yards.
   11.   Signs. The only signs that may be erected or placed on a residential
lot or building shall be one sign not exceeding 25 square feet in area
advertising only the sale or lease of the premises or one unlighted sign not
exceeding one square foot in area, attached flat to the building, pertaining to
a home occupation. Also, outdoor bulletin boards for churches and schools are
permitted.
   12.   Accessory Buildings. No accessory building or portion thereof or other
structure shall be permitted in front yards as herein defined.
165.03    ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
The various districts as set forth in this chapter and their boundaries are
shown on the “Official Zoning District Map” of the City, which is on file in
the office of the Clerk, and which, with all amendments, changes and extensions
thereof and all legends, symbols, notations, dimensions, references and all
other matters shown thereon, is a part of this chapter. There is only one
“Official Zoning District Map.” It is attested by the original signatures of
the Mayor and Clerk. All copies or reproductions thereof are junior thereto.
The boundaries of the various districts established by this chapter are street
lines, alley lines, property lines, lot lines, or other lines shown on the
Official Zoning District Map. Where boundaries are approximately indicated as
property or lot lines, the true locations of such lines shall be taken as
boundary lines. Where the distance to any boundary line from a street line,
property line or lot line is indicated by a dimension on the Official Zoning
Map, such measurement shall control. The City is divided into districts known
as:
      A-1   Agricultural
      R-1   Single-Family Residential
      R-2   Two-Family Residential
      R-3   Multiple-Family Residential
      M-1   Mobile Home Residential
      PUD   Planned Unit Development
      C-1   Central Business District
      C-2   General Commercial District
      C-3   Central Business Implement District
      I-1   General Industrial District
      1-2   Heavy Industrial District
All territory hereafter annexed to the City shall be classified R-1 until such
classification is subsequently changed by an action of the Planning and Zoning
Commission and the Council.
165.04    NONCONFORMING USES, BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES.
The following provisions apply to nonconforming uses, buildings and structures
in the City:
   1.   A nonconforming use, although such does not conform to the provisions
of this chapter, may be continued, but if such nonconforming use is
discontinued for a period of one year, any future use of said premises shall be
in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   2.   Nonconforming buildings or structures may not be extended or enlarged.
   3.   Nothing in this chapter prevents the reconstruction of a building or
structure used for a nonconforming use if 50% or less is destroyed by fire or
other calamity or prevents the continuance of the use of such building or
structure or part thereof as such use existed at the time of such destruction,
provided that any reconstruction shall be begun within six months after such
destruction and shall be diligently pursued thereafter.
   4.   A single-family dwelling may be built on a nonconforming lot that was
legally platted prior to the date of enactment of Ordinance No. 269. Such lot
must be in a separate ownership and not of continuous frontage with other lots
of the same ownership. Two or more continuous frontage lots under one ownership
at the time of the adoption of the ordinance codified by this chapter shall be
considered an undivided parcel. No portion may be used or sold nor shall any
portion remain after such sale or use that does not conform to area and width
requirements of this chapter.
   5.   Uses which were in violation of Ordinance No. 269 shall also be in
violation of the ordinance codified herein and shall not become nonconforming
uses by virtue of repeal of Ordinance No. 269 and enactment of this Zoning
Ordinance.
165.05    A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   1.   Uses. This district is established to accommodate areas predominately
agricultural in character or undeveloped for urban use. As urban development
expands, areas suitable for such use will be rezoned according to the
comprehensive plan. A building or premises shall be used only for the following
purposes:
      One-family dwellings
      Home occupations
      Railroad right-of-way and trackage
      Private garage or accessory building
      Utility substation
      Granary
      Farm or apiary, not to include storage of livestock or commercial poultry
farm
      Forest
      Plant nursery
      Stable, at least 1000 feet from nearest residential district
      Golf course, except miniature courses and driving tees operated for
commercial purposes
      Country clubs
      Parks
      Off-street parking lot in conjunction with a use permitted in this
district
   2.   Lot Sizes.
      Minimum Lot Size   20,000 square feet
      Minimum Frontage   120 feet
      Maximum Building Height   2½ stories or 35 feet
      Maximum Lot Coverage by Buildings   30 percent
      Minimum Front Yard   30 feet
      Minimum Side Yard   20 feet each side
      Minimum Rear Yard   30 feet or 25% of lot depth, whichever is smaller
165.06    R-I SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   1.   Uses. This district is established to accommodate single-family
dwellings and uses customarily found in low density residential areas such as
churches, public and parochial schools, golf courses and parks. A building or
premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
      Single-family dwellings
      Accessory buildings constructed on the same premises as the principal
building
      Home occupation
      Railroad right-of-way and trackage
      Utility substation or other essential public services
      Church or Sunday School
      Public School
      Private school having curriculum similar to that offered by public
schools
      Golf course, except miniature courses and driving tees operated for
commercial purposes
      Country clubs
      Publicly owned libraries, museums, parks and playgrounds
      Off-street parking lot in conjunction with a use permitted in this
district
      Property owners may construct accessory buildings on a lot sharing a
boundary with the principal building’s lot. No accessory buildings may be
placed upon any lot before a principal structure is constructed.
   2.   Lot Sizes.
      Minimum Lot Size   8,000 square feet
      Minimum Frontage   80 feet
      Maximum Building Height   2½ stories or 35 feet
      Maximum Lot Coverage by Buildings   30 percent
      Minimum Front Yard   30 feet
      Minimum Side Yard   10 feet each side
      Minimum Rear Yard   30 feet or 25% of lot depth, whichever is smaller
   For all new single-family detached dwellings for which building permits have
been issued on or after November 19, 1984, the minimum dimension of the main
body of the dwelling unit shall not be less than 20 feet.
      A.   The minimum front yard shall be 30 feet as described above, all to
the rear of a line which line is an extension of the front building line of the
majority of existing buildings in the same block.
      B.   The minimum side yard requirements within the area designated herein
for side yards shall be 10 feet on either side of the main building. No
accessory building or other structure shall be hereafter constructed within
five feet of any side or rear lot lines.
      C.   For purposes of this section, side lot lines shall not refer and
shall specifically exclude the designation “side yard” but shall include only
those boundary lines on either side of the property lying behind the rear line
of the main building.
      D.   The maximum side wall height for any accessory building shall be
nine feet. For purposes of this section, the side wall height is measured from
the average grade at the front building line to the highest point of the side
wall.
   3.   Off-Street Parking:
      At least one space for each family dwelling
      Churches – one space for each 10 seats
      Country Clubs – one space for each 2 members
      Golf Courses – 50 spaces for each 9 holes
165.07 R-2 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   1.   Uses. This district is established to accommodate single- and two-
family dwellings and other uses customarily found in low density residential
areas such as churches, public and parochial schools, golf courses and parks. A
building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
      Any use permitted in the “R-1” District
      Two-family dwellings
      Telephone exchange building
   2.   Lot Sizes.
      Minimum Lot Size   6,500 square feet
      Minimum Frontage   60 feet
      Maximum Building Height   2½ stories or 35 feet
      Maximum Lot Coverage by Buildings   40 percent
      Minimum Front Yard   30 feet
      Minimum Side Yard   10 feet each side
      Minimum Rear Yard   30 feet or 25% of lot depth, whichever is smaller
      A.   The minimum front yard shall be 30 feet as described above, all to
the rear of a line which line is an extension of the front building line of the
majority of existing buildings in the same block.
      B.   The minimum side yard requirements within the area designated herein
for side yards shall be 10 feet on either side of the main building. No
accessory building or other structure shall be hereafter constructed within
five feet of any side or rear lot lines.
      C.   For purposes of this section, side lot lines shall not refer and
shall specifically exclude the designation “side yard” but shall include only
those boundary lines on either side of the property lying behind the rear line
of the main building.
      D.   The maximum side wall height for any accessory building shall be
nine feet. For purposes of this section, the side wall height is measured from
the average grade at the front building line to the highest point of the side
wall.
   3.   Off-Street Parking:
      At least one space for each family dwelling
      Churches - one space for each 10 seats
      Country clubs - one space for each 2 members
      Golf courses - 50 spaces for each 9 holes
165.08    R-3 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   1.   Uses. This district is established to permit medium density family
developments in the suburban areas, and to serve as a transition from high
density developments to single-family residential areas. A building or premises
in the “R-3” District shall be used only for the following purposes:
      Any use permitted in the “R-2” District
      Multiple-family dwellings
      Apothecary shop
      Clinic
      Hospital
      Boarding house
      Lodging house
      Nursing home
      Convalescent home
      Retirement homes
      Home for the elderly
      Club or lodge
      Institution of educational, religious, charitable or philanthropic nature
   2.   Lot Sizes.
      Minimum Lot Size   6,500 square feet
      (In no case shall there be less than 2,000 sq. ft. of lot for each family
occupancy in multiple-family dwellings.)
      Minimum Frontage   60 feet
      Maximum Building Height   4½ stories or 55 feet
      Maximum Lot Coverage by Buildings   50 percent
      Minimum Front Yard   30 feet
      Minimum Side Yard   10 feet each side
      Minimum Rear Yard   30 feet or 25% of lot depth, whichever is smaller
      A.   The minimum front yard shall be 30 feet as described above, all to
the rear of a line which line is an extension of the front building line of the
majority of existing buildings in the same block.
      B.   The minimum side yard requirements within the area designated herein
for side yards shall be 10 feet on either side of the main building. No
accessory building or other structure shall be hereafter constructed within
five feet of any side or rear lot lines.
      C.   For purposes of this section, side lot lines shall not refer and
shall specifically exclude the designation “side yard” but shall include only
those boundary lines on either side of the property lying behind the rear line
of the main building.
      D.   The maximum side wall height for any accessory building shall be
nine feet. For purposes of this section, the side wall height is measured from
the average grade at the front building line to the highest point of the side
wall.
   3.   Off-Street Parking:
      At least one space for each family dwelling
      Churches - one space for each 10 seats
      Country clubs - one space for each 2 members
      Golf courses - 50 spaces for each 9 holes
      Boarding house, lodging house, nursing home, convalescent home,
retirement home, home for the elderly - at least one space for each 2-guest
sleeping room
165.09    M-1 MOBILE HOME RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   1.   Uses. This district is established specifically to provide area for
mobile home residential uses and those uses normally considered an integral
part of the mobile home residential area.
      Any use permitted in the “R-1” District
      Mobile home park, in accordance with the regulations of the Iowa State
Department of Health and the following regulations
      Mobile home park service building, including laundromat and equipment
storage
   2.   Size of Tract. Four acres minimum.
   3.   Signs. One indirectly lighted sign facing each public street. Maximum
sign size shall be 100 square feet each.
   4.   Lot Sizes.
      Minimum Lot Size   3,500 square feet
      Minimum Frontage   35 feet
      Maximum Building Height   35 feet
      Maximum Lot Coverage by Buildings   none
      Minimum Front Yard   15 feet
      Minimum Side Yard   5 feet each side
      Minimum Rear Yard   15 feet
      Minimum Clearance Between Trailers   20 feet
Each yard abutting on a public street shall have a minimum building setback
distance of 30 feet. There shall be a buffer zone of at least 20 feet around
the periphery of the court where it abuts other private property. The buffer
zone is in addition to the foregoing front, rear and size yard requirements.
   5.   Plan Required. Mobile home park planning and development shall comply
with the requirements of
Chapter 166, Subdivision Regulations. Each petition for a change to the M-
1 zoning classification submitted to the Council shall be accompanied by a
mobile home park preliminary plan. Said plan shall show each mobile home park
space, the water, electrical and sewer lines, serving each trailer space, the
location of garbage cans, water hydrants, service buildings, driveways,
walkways, recreation areas, required yards, the parking facilities, lighting
and landscaping. Upon approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission and
Council, detailed plans shall be submitted to the Iowa State Department of
Health and to the Council for approval.
   6.   Off-Street Parking.
      At least one space for each family dwelling
      Churches – one space for each 10 seats
      County clubs – one space for each 2 members
      Golf courses – 50 spaces for each 9 holes
165.10    PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   1.   Purpose. The purpose of the Planned Unit Development (PUD) regulations
is to encourage flexibility to the design and development of land in order to
promote its most appropriate use; to facilitate the adequate and economical
provision of streets, utilities and public spaces; and to preserve the natural
and scenic qualities of open areas. The procedure is intended to permit
diversification in the location of structures and improved circulation
facilities and other site qualities while ensuring adequate standards relating
to public health, safety and welfare plus convenience, both in the use and
occupancy of buildings and facilities in planned groups. A Planned Unit
Development, to be eligible under this chapter, must be:
      A.   In accordance with the Comprehensive Plan of the City and with the
regulations of this chapter.
      B.   An effective and unified means of treating possible development
providing for preservation of scenic features and amenities of the site and the
surrounding area.
      C.   So designed in its space allocation, orientation, landscaping,
circulation system, materials and other features as to produce an environment
of stable and desirable character, complementing the design and values of the
neighborhood.
   2.   Minimum Area. A Planned Unit Development shall include no less than
five acres of contiguous land.
   3.   Open Space. A minimum of 25% of planned unit site area shall be
developed as common open space. Parking areas and vehicle access facilities
shall not be considered in calculating open space.
   4.   Land Use. At least 90% of the PUD site exclusive of open space shall be
devoted to those uses permitted in the zoning district in which the PUD is
located. Proposed land uses shall not adversely affect surrounding development,
and shall be in accordance with the objectives and policies of the
Comprehensive Plan.
   5.   Unity of Control. In order that the purpose of these regulations may be
realized, the land and buildings and appurtenant facilities shall be in single
ownership, or under management or supervision of a central authority, or
otherwise subject to such supervisory lease or ownership control as may be
necessary to carry out the provisions herein.
   6.   Autos. The minimum ratio of parking spaces to residential units within
a given tract development shall be no less than one and five tenths (1.5) autos
per unit.
   7.   Application Procedures. Planned Unit Developments shall be subject to
the approval of the Council based upon review and recommendations by the Zoning
Commission.
      A.   General Development Plan. The applicant shall file a General
Development Plan which shall include the following information:
         (1)   A statement describing the general character of the intended
development;
         (2)   An accurate map of the project area including its relationship
to surrounding properties, existing topography and key features;
         (3)   A plan of the proposed project showing at least the following
information in sufficient detail to make possible the evaluation of the
criteria for approval, as follows:
            a.   The pattern of proposed land use including shape, size and
arrangement of proposed use areas, density and environmental character;
            b.   The pattern of public and private streets;
            c.   The location, size and character of recreational and open
space areas reserved or dedicated for public uses such as parks, greenways,
etc;
            d.   A utility feasibility study.
         (4)   Appropriate statistical data on the size of the development,
ratio of various land uses, percentage of multi-family units by number of
bedrooms, economic analysis of the development, expected staging, and any other
plans or data pertinent to evaluation by the City.
         (5)   General outline of intended organizational structure related to
property owners association, deed restrictions and private provisions of common
services.
      B.   Specific Implementation Plan. A specific and detailed plan for
implementation of all or a part of a proposed PUD after approval of the General
Development Plan must be submitted within a reasonable period of time as
determined by the Zoning Commission. The specific implementation plan shall be
submitted for review by the Zoning Commission and approval or disapproval by
the Council and shall include the following detailed construction and
engineering plans and related detailed documents and schedules:
         (1)   An accurate map of the area covered by the plan including the
relationship to the total general development plan;
         (2)   The pattern of public and private roads, driveways, walkways and
parking facilities;
         (3)   Detailed lot layout and subdivision plat where required;
         (4)   The arrangement of building groups, and their architectural
character;
         (5)   Sanitary sewer and water mains;
         (6)   Grading plan and storm drainage;
         (7)   The location and treatment of open space areas and recreational
or other special amenities;
         (8)   The location and description of any areas to be dedicated to the
public;
         (9)   General landscape treatment;
         (10)   Proof of financing capability;
         (11)   Analysis of economic impact upon the community;
         (12)   A development schedule indicating:
            a.   The approximate date when construction of the project can be
expected to begin;
            b.   The stages in which the project will be built and the
approximate date when construction of each stage can be expected to begin;
            c.   The anticipated rate of development;
            d.   The approximate date when the development of each of the
stages will be completed; and
            e.   The area and location of common open space that will be
provided at each stage.
         (13)   Agreements, by-laws, provisions, or covenants. which govern the
organizational structure, use, maintenance and continued protection of the PUD
and any of its common services, common open areas or other facilities;
         (14)   Any other plans, documents, or schedules requested by the City;
         (15)   Proof of compliance with State and local fire regulations.
   8.   Criteria for Approval. As a basis for determining the acceptability of
a PUD application, the following criteria shall be applied to the precise
development plan for such district with specific consideration as to whether or
not it is consistent with the spirit and intent of this chapter, has been
prepared with competent professional advice and guidance, and produces
significant benefits in terms of environmental design.
      A.   Character and Intensity of Land Use. In a PUD, the uses proposed and
their intensity and arrangement on the site, shall be of visual and operational
character which:
         (1)   Is compatible to the physical nature of the site with particular
concern for preservation of natural features, tree growth and open space;
         (2)   Would produce an attractive environment of sustained aesthetic
and ecological desirability, economic stability and functional practicability
compatible with the general development plan for the area as established by the
community;
         (3)   Would not adversely affect the anticipated provision for school
or other municipal services;
         (4)   Would not create a traffic or parking demand incompatible with
the existing or proposed facilities to serve it.
      B.   Economic Feasibility and Impact. The proponents of a PUD application
shall provide evidence satisfactory to the Council of its economic feasibility
of available adequate financing, and that it would not adversely affect the
economic prosperity of the City or the values of surrounding properties.
      C.   Engineering Design Standards. The width of street right-of-ways,
width and location of street or other paving, location of sewer and water
lines, provision for storm sewer drainage or other similar environmental
engineering considerations shall be based upon determination as to the
appropriate standards necessary to implement the specific function of the
specific situation; provided, however, that in no case shall standards be less
than those necessary to ensure the public safety and welfare as determined by
the City.
      D.   Preservation and Maintenance of Open Space. In a PUD, adequate
provision shall be made for the permanent preservation and maintenance of
common open space either by private reservation or dedication to the public.
         (1)   In the case of private reservation, the open area to be reserved
may be protected against building development by conveying to the City as part
of the conditions for project approval an open space easement over such open
areas restricting the area against any future building or use except as is
consistent with that of providing landscaped open space for the aesthetic and
recreational benefit of the development. Buildings or uses for noncommercial,
recreational or cultural purposes compatible with the open space objective may
be permitted only where specifically authorized as part of the development plan
or subsequently, with the express approval of building site and operational
plans by the Zoning Commission. All easements are subject to acceptance by the
Council.
         (2)   The care and maintenance of such open space reservation shall be
assured by establishment of appropriate management organization for the
project. The manner of assuring maintenance and assessing such cost to
individual properties shall be included in any contractual agreement with the
City and shall be included in the title to each property.
         (3)   Ownership and tax liability of private open space reservation
shall be established in a manner acceptable to the City and made a part of the
conditions of the plan approval.
      E.   Implementation Schedule. The proponents of a PUD shall submit a
reasonable schedule for the implementation of the development to the
satisfaction of the Council including suitable provisions for assurance that
each phase could be brought to completion in a manner which would not result in
adverse effect upon the community as a result of termination at that point.
   9.   Approval of the Specific Implementation Plan.
      A.   Following a review of the specific implementation plan, the Zoning
Commission shall recommend to the Council that it be approved as submitted,
approved with modifications, or disapproved.
      B.   Upon receipt of the Zoning Commission recommendation, the Council
may approve the plan and authorize the development to proceed accordingly, or
disapprove the plan.
      C.   In the event of approval of the specific implementation plan, the
building, site and operational plans for the development, as approved, as well
as all other commitments and contractual agreements with the City offered or
required with regard to project value, character and other factors pertinent to
an assurance that the proposed development will be carried out basically as
presented in the official submittal plans, shall be recorded by the developer
within 90 days in the office of the County Recorder. This shall include posting
a performance bond or certified check as directed by the Council for each
individual project as submitted for Council consideration, with the City,
guaranteeing that required improvements will be constructed according to the
approved implementation schedule. This shall be accomplished prior to the
issuance of any building permit.
      D.   Any subsequent change or addition to the plans or use shall first be
submitted for approval to the Council and Zoning Commission and if such change
or addition constitutes a substantial alteration of the original plan, the
procedures in the above shall be required.
      E.   If construction of the PUD does not commence and continue in
reasonable accordance with the development schedule, then the PUD shall be
voided.
   10.   Construction Requirements. In any plan submitted for consideration of
a PUD all structures and fixtures to be permanently or semi-permanently
attached to the proposed area to be developed shall have a minimum 30' setback
from all City streets, public right-of-ways, City property and other public
facilities.
   11.   Definitions.
      A.   A Planned Unit Development shall be any orderly development of a
tract of five acres or more of contiguous land within the City limits or within
areas controlled by this chapter. A PUD may contain single-family residences,
multi-family rental dwellings, condominium developments, townhouses, row
houses, patio homes, tract development mobile home courts and any other
residential structures which from time to time the Council may deem appropriate
for inclusion in a particular submitted proposal for a PUD.
PUDs also include business and commercial properties of a retail or semi-retail
nature. Such properties may in a given PUD be intermingled with the afore-
described residential uses subject to the above provisions of approval by the
Council. The purpose of this definition is to differentiate the character of
PUDs from that of the requirements appearing elsewhere in this chapter and
within this Code of Ordinances regarding subdivision and platting and
dedication requirements.
      B.   Exclusions. Specifically excluded from any consideration or any
proposal for a PUD shall be industrial enterprises of any character, temporary
dwellings, and all other uses inconsistent with the qualifying uses in this
section.
165.11    C-1 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   1.   Uses. This district is composed of land and structures used primarily
to provide retail trade, personal and business services of all kinds that
contribute to the construction of a concentrated regional shopping and business
center. The regulations are designed to permit a highly concentrated
development of the permitted uses within the district. Residential uses are not
permitted in the C-1 District, EXCEPT for the following:
      Apartment units above the first floor; and
      First floor apartments that do not exceed 50% of the square footage of
the floor and which do not front on Sumner Avenue.
   The following are the uses permitted in this district:
      Advertising sign pertaining only to a use conducted within the building,
which sign shall not exceed 100 square feet in area unless attached flat
against the wall of a principal structure
      Bakeries whose products are sold primarily at retail in the premises;
      Banks and other financial institutions
      Barber shops or beauty parlors
      Bowling alleys
      Business or commercial schools
      Dancing or music studio for private instruction
      Electrical and shoe repair shops with retail sales
      Grocery stores
      Hotels or motels
      Interior decorating shops
      Laundry, dry cleaning, and dyeing shops or Laundromats
      Messenger or telegraph service stations
      Mini-storage units
      Offices or office buildings
      Petroleum automobile service stations and convenience stores Photographer
studios
      Printing shop and newspaper printing shop
      Private clubs and lodges
      Restaurants
      Retail stores
      Sales show rooms
      Shops for retail sales
      Taverns
      Theaters (except open-air drive-in theaters)
      Public parks
   2.   Lot Sizes.
      Minimum Lot Size   No restriction
      Minimum Frontage   No restriction
      Maximum Building Height   No restriction
      Maximum Lot Coverage by Buildings   No restriction
      Minimum Front Yard   No restriction
      Minimum Side Yard   No restriction
      Minimum Rear Yard   No restriction
   3.   Off-Street Loading Space. Every principal building or part thereof
hereinafter erected, enlarged or converted, having a gross floor area of ten
thousand (10,000) square feet or more, which is to be occupied by
manufacturing, light industry, storage warehouse, laundry, truck terminal, or
other uses, involving the frequent receipt or distribution by vehicles of
materials or merchandise, there shall be provided and maintained on the same
lot with such building not less than one off-street loading space for each
10,000 square feet, or fraction thereof, of gross floor space of the building.
Minimum loading space dimensions shall be 10 feet by 25 feet.
   4.   Architectural Standards. The following architectural requirements and
standards shall apply in the Central Business District.
      A.   Building Placement. Buildings shall be sited parallel to the street
frontage and shall have a well-defined front façade with primary entrances
addressing the primary street frontage and secondary entrances located at
additional convenient locations. At intersections, buildings shall have front
façades on both streets.
      B.   Building Materials. The following materials are NOT acceptable for
front façades, except as a secondary or trim material:
         (1)   Masonite
         (2)   Visible asphaltic exterior wall
         (3)   Aluminum/steel siding or panels
         (4)   Non-architectural sheet metal
         (5)   Non-textured concrete block
         (6)   Non-finished/non-painted plywood or particle board siding
      C.   Design Elements. All buildings shall have at least three design
elements that contribute to the appearance and character of the building such
as:
         (1)   Display windows
         (2)   Peaked roof forms
         (3)   Arches/recessed archways
         (4)   Overhangs
         (5)   Integrated tile/molding
         (6)   Awnings/canopies
         (7)   Window and door framing/shutters/sills
         (8)   Change in material/massing/texture
         (9)   Change in color
165.12    C-2 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   1.   Uses. This district is composed of land and structures used primarily
as commercial and limited fabricating, wholesaling and warehousing. The main
purpose of this district is to contain commercial uses that require larger
pieces of land than generally needed in a built-up downtown area. They also
require more space for the maneuvering of vehicles either within the business
or in carrying out the transactions within the business. These regulations are
designed to permit lightly concentrated development of the permitted uses
within the district. All fabricating, wholesaling, and warehousing uses shall
be conducted within an enclosed building with no open storage of raw, in
process or finished material and supplies or waste material. Any use which is
noxious or offensive due to the emission of odor, gas, smoke, dust, or noise,
or which is a menace to public health or safety is excluded. Residential uses
are not permitted in the C-2 District, EXCEPT for the following:
      Apartment units above the first floor.
   This district may be more commonly referred to as an outlying commercial
district and the following are the uses permitted in this district:
      Church or Sunday school
      Private clubs and lodges
      Farm supply sales
      Automobile sales room and/or garages
      Bowling alleys, dance halls or skating rinks
      Drive-in restaurants and theaters
      Farm implement sales and service and outdoor storage
      Petroleum automobile service stations
      Frozen food lockers
      Milk distribution stations
      Undertaking establishments or funeral homes
      Used car sales or storage lots when located at least 50 feet away from
any residential district
      Veterinarian or animal hospitals or clinics, provided that any treatment
rooms, cages, pens or kennels are located within a completely enclosed, sound-
proof building and so operated as not to produce any objectionable odors
outside of its walls
      Motels
      Fabricating, wholesaling and warehousing
      Grocery stores
      Accessory buildings and uses
      Any other business or commercial use similar to the above involving
primarily sales or service
      Taverns and cocktail lounges
      Public parks
(Subsection 1 - Ord. 2019-04 - Oct. 20 Supp.)
   2.   Yard Requirements. There are no setback or yard requirements for
principal or accessory buildings in this district except as otherwise may be
required along State, Federal or County roads.
   3.   Off-Street Parking. Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided on
the site or within 200 feet thereof for each three employees regularly employed
at the same time in the business hereafter erected in this district.
   4.   Off-Street Loading. Every principal building or part thereof hereafter
erected, enlarged or converted, having a gross floor area of 10,000 square feet
or more, which is to be occupied by manufacturing, light industry, storage
warehouse, laundry, truck terminal or other uses, involving the frequent
receipt or distribution by vehicles of materials or merchandise, there shall be
provided and maintained on the same lot with such building, not less than one
off-street loading space for the first 10,000 square feet or fraction thereof,
of gross floor space of the building plus one additional off-street loading
space for each 30,000 square feet or major fraction thereof, of gross floor
area in excess of 10,000 square feet. Each such space shall be not less than 10
feet in width and 65 feet in length and shall be a surfaced area.
165.13 C-3 CENTRAL BUSINESS IMPLEMENT DISTRICT.
   1.   Uses. This district is composed of land and structures used primarily
to provide retail trade, personal and business services of all kinds and to
specifically permit in addition to general retail trade the maintenance and
operation of farm implement sales and service and outdoor storage facilities.
The regulations are designed to permit a highly concentrated development of the
permitted uses within the district.
      Existing residences within the district are permitted but future
residences within the district are not permitted.
      Private clubs and lodges
      Bakeries whose products are sold at retail in the premises
      Banks and other financial institutions
      Barber shops or beauty parlors
      Business or commercial schools
      Dancing or music studio for private instruction
      Electrical and shoe repair shops with retail sales
      Farm implement sales and service and outdoor storage
      Interior decorating shops
      Messenger or telegraph service stations
      Photographic studios
      Offices or office buildings
      Grocery stores
      Restaurants
      Retail stores
      Sales show rooms
      Shops for retail sales
      Laundry, dry cleaning, and dyeing shops or Laundromats
      Theaters (except open-air drive-in theaters)
      Taverns
      Advertising sign pertaining only to a use conducted within the building,
which sign shall not exceed 100 square feet in area unless attached flat
against the wall of a principal structure
      Hotels or motels
      Printing shop and newspaper printing shop
      Public parks
   2.   Lot Sizes.
      Minimum Lot Size   No restriction
      Minimum Frontage   No restriction
      Maximum Building Height   No restriction
      Maximum Lot Coverage by Buildings   No restriction
      Minimum Front Yard   No restriction
      Minimum Side Yard   No restriction
      Minimum Rear Yard   No restriction
   3.   Off-Street Loading Space. Every principal building or part thereof
hereinafter erected, enlarged or converted, having a gross floor area of 10,000
square feet or more, which is to be occupied by manufacturing, light industry,
storage warehouse, laundry, truck terminal, or other uses, involving the
frequent receipt or distribution by vehicles of materials or merchandise, there
shall be provided and maintained on the same lot with such building not less
than one off-street loading space for each 10,000 square feet, or fraction
thereof, of gross floor space of the building. Minimum loading space dimensions
shall be 10 feet by 20 feet.
165.14    I-1 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   1.   Uses. This district is composed of land now occupied by light industry
or other lands not well suited for residential developments, where the modes of
operation of industry would not likely affect nearby residential and business
use. The purpose of this district is to permit the normal operation of
industries, other than those whose operations may affect the health, safety or
welfare or nearby residential and commercial property. This district is meant
as an environmental buffer between residential and heavy industrial zones.
Residential or apartment use in this district is not permitted. In this
district, a building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes
and shall be subject to the provisions enumerated hereinafter:
      Laboratories, research, experimental or testing
      Offices and office buildings
      Wholesale merchandising or storage warehouses
      Compounding of cosmetics, toiletries, drugs and pharmaceutical products
      Manufacture or assembly of medical and dental equipment, drafting,
optical, and musical instruments, watches, clocks, toys, games and electrical
or electronic apparatus
      Undertaking establishments or funeral homes
      Used car sales or storage lots when located at least 50 feet away from
any residential district
      Manufacture or assembly of boats, bolts, nuts, screws, and rivets,
ornamental iron products, firearms, electrical appliances, tools, dies,
machinery and hardware products, sheet metal products, and vitreous enameled
metal products
      Manufacture or storage of food products, including beverage blending or
bottling, bakery products, candy manufacture, dairy products and ice cream,
fruit and vegetable processing and canning, packing and processing of meat and
poultry products, but not distilling of beverages or slaughtering of poultry or
animals
      Manufacture of rugs, mattresses, pillows, quilts, millinery, hosiery,
clothing, and fabrics and printing and finishing of textiles and fibers into
fabric goods
      Manufacture of boxes, crates, furniture, baskets, veneer, and other wood
products of a similar nature
      Generally, those light manufacturing uses similar to those listed in the
previous six items which do not create any more danger to health and safety in
surrounding areas and which do not create any more offensive noise, vibration,
smoke, dust, lint, odors, heat or glare than that which is generally associated
with light industries of the type specifically permitted
      Accessory buildings and uses including accessory signs and advertising
structures related to the activity conducted on the premises
      Railroad siding
      Sale at wholesale; warehousing and/or storage of any commodity, except
commercial explosives
      Sale at retail of any commodity manufactured, processed, fabricated or
wholesaled only on the premises; equipment, supplies and materials (except
commercial explosives) for agriculture, industry, business
      Repair, rental and servicing of any commodity, the manufacture, process,
fabrication, warehousing or sale of which commodity is permitted in this
district
      Garages and accessory building may occupy any portion of the lot with a
principal building when necessary for any permitted use
      Farms, nurseries, truck gardening, raising of livestock and fowls and
similar agricultural operations including greenhouses
      State license and inspected veterinarian, animal clinics or hospitals, or
animal shelters
      Any use permitted in the C-2 General Commercial District except
apartments above places of business
      Utility services not including exterior storage
      Contractors plants and storage yards
      Radio and television stations but not transmission towers
      Poster boards and advertising signs
      The uses enumerated above shall be subject to the following provisions:
      A.   All uses shall be conducted within an enclosed building with no open
storage of raw, in process, or finished material and supplies or waste
material.
      B.   All main plant buildings shall be of wood frame, concrete,
structural steel or masonry construction and limited to 30 feet in height
unless otherwise recommended by the Planning and Zoning Commission and approved
by the Council. The following are prohibited on the façade:
         (1)   Wood siding
         (2)   Asphalt shingles
      C.   Adequate parking and loading space shall be provided off the street
for all employees and traffic to the plant.
      D.   Loading operations shall be conducted at the side or rear of the
buildings.
      Any use which is noxious or offensive due to the emission of odor, gas,
smoke, dust or noise, or which is a menace to public health or safety is
excluded.
   2.   Yard Requirements. There are no setback or yard requirements for
principal or accessory buildings in the district.
   3.   Off-Street Parking. Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided on
the lot for each three employees regularly employed at the same time in
factories, offices, businesses and shops hereafter erected in this district.
   4.   Off-Street Loading. The same requirements for off-street loading as
specified for C-2 General Commercial District shall apply to uses in this
district.
165.15    I-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   1.   Uses. This district is composed of land now occupied by industry or
other lands not well suited for residential developments, where the modes of
operation of industry would likely affect nearby residential and business use.
The purpose of this district is to permit the normal operation of heavy
industries, including those whose operations may affect the health, safety or
welfare of nearby residential and commercial property. Residential or apartment
use in this district is not permitted. The manufacture, processing and/or
fabrication as enumerated of any commodity except those specifically excluded
herein:
      Any use permitted in “I-1” General Industrial District
      Airports and landing fields
      Junk yards
      Drive-in or outdoor theaters
      Circuses, carnivals, fairs, and shows operating for a profit
      Sawmills
      Radio and television stations and masts
      Stockyards
      Any use which is noxious or offensive due to the emission of odor, gas,
smoke, dust or noise, or which is a menace to public health or safety, except
by agreement to special control provisions recommended by the Planning and
Zoning Commission, and approved by the Council, is excluded.
   2.   Yard Requirements. There are no setback or yard requirements for
principal or accessory buildings in the district.
   3.   Off-Street Parking. Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided on
the lot for each three employees regularly employed at the same time in
factories, offices, businesses and shops hereafter erected in this district,
but in no event less than an area equal to one-fourth (¼) the gross floor area
occupied by the use in the principal building or buildings.
   4.   Off-Street Loading. The same requirements for off-street loading as
specified for C-2 General Commercial District shall apply to uses in this
district.
165.16    ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   1.   Permit Required. No building or part thereof shall be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, converted, altered, enlarged, extended, raised,
moved or used and no land shall be used except in conformity with the
regulations herein prescribed for the district in which such building or land
may be situated and until a building permit has been issued by the Zoning
Administrator as provided herein. This requirement as to residential and other
non-fire zone structures shall apply to exterior alterations only. Cosmetic
changes or changes deemed by the Zoning Administrator to be inconsequential
shall be exempt, such changes as re-shingling, re-siding, window replacement,
paved driveways and patios shall be deemed inconsequential.
   2.   Application for Building Permit. Each application for a building permit
shall be in writing, on the standard forms of the City, and filed in the office
of the Zoning Administrator. The application shall be accompanied by a plot
plan of the lot upon which the building or structure is to be placed,
reconstructed, enlarged or converted, showing the size of the lot, foundation
dimensions, proposed front, side, and rear yard depths of the proposed building
or structure and any other existing accessory building on the lot.
   3.   Issuance of Building Permit. If after reviewing the application, the
Zoning Administrator finds the building or structure in the proposed location
complies with all the provisions of this chapter, the Zoning Administrator
shall, upon payment of the required fee as prescribed herein, issue a building
permit therefor and retain a copy thereof as a part of the permanent records of
the Zoning Administrator’s office.
   4.   Refusal of Building Permit. If after reviewing the application the
Zoning Administrator finds the building or structure in the proposed location
does not comply with the provisions of this chapter, the Zoning Administrator
shall furnish the applicant with a signed statement, refusing to issue such
permit and setting forth the reason for such refusal. The refusal by the Zoning
Administrator to issue a permit may be appealed by the applicant to the Board
of Adjustment in the manner provided herein.
   5.   Expiration. Any zoning permit, under which no construction work has
been commenced within six months after date of issuance, or under which the
proposed construction, reconstruction or alteration has not been completed
within two years of the date of issue, shall expire by limitation and no work
or operation shall take place under such permit after its expiration. A
building permit may be extended once for a period not exceeding six months by
the Zoning Administrator.
   6.   Enforcement. A Zoning Administrator shall be appointed by the Mayor to
hold office for such term as the Council shall determine, such appointment to
be approved by the Council. Said Zoning Administrator shall issue all building
permits and enforce all provisions of this chapter. Appeals from the decisions
of the Zoning Administrator may be made to the Board of Adjustment as provided
herein.
   7.   Records. The Zoning Administrator shall keep a record of all
applications filed, permits issued or refused, and if refused the reason for
such refusal and the final action thereon. The Zoning Administrator shall keep
a record of all building permit fees collected and shall remit the amount of
such fees to the office of the Clerk each day.
   8.   Fees. Building permits for buildings to be constructed shall be charged
at rates set by resolution:
      A.   Cost per square foot of floor space with a minimum charge shall be
set by resolution.
      B.   If the proposed construction, reconstruction, conversion,
alteration, enlargement, extension, or relocation is found to be located within
the City’s 100-year flood plain as determined by the City’s Flood Insurance
Rate Maps (FIRM) for Humboldt County and Incorporated Areas, City of Humboldt,
Panels 19091C0301C, 0302C, 0303C, 0304C, dated November 3, 2017, or as amended
hereafter, the fees shall be set by resolution.
      C.   “Square footage” as herein computed means the area within the
foundation upon and within the earth.
      D.   Of the fees herein computed, 65% thereof shall be paid to the Zoning
Building Commissioner for inspection fees.
      E.   Any additional fees incurred by the City in determining an
application’s compliance with the regulations as set forth in this chapter or
any related chapter in this Code of Ordinances shall be borne by the person
making the application.
      F.   Where work for which a permit is required by this chapter is started
or commenced without obtaining a permit, the fees specified for such permit may
be doubled at the discretion of the Zoning Administrator, but the payment of
such double fee shall not relieve any persons from fully complying with the
requirements of this chapter in the execution of the work, nor from any other
penalties prescribed herein. The payment of a double fee shall not be used for
purposes of calculating payment of the Zoning Administrator by the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.19[5])
   9.   Certificate of Compliance.
      A.   A building permit shall not become effective, and no person shall
occupy or use the subject structure, until the Zoning Administrator has
endorsed on the permit his certification of compliance that the structure has
been completed in conformity with the terms and conditions of the building
permit.
      B.   If approved, the certified permit shall be delivered to the Clerk
for filing. If disapproved, the Zoning Administrator shall attach to the
disapproved certificate the reasons for disapproval, which shall be forwarded
to the Clerk. Copies of the permit shall also be sent to the applicant.
      C.   An appeal may be taken from the decision of the Zoning Administrator
not to certify a building permit by notifying the Clerk, who shall place the
matter on the agenda for Council discussion and decision. The Council shall, at
its discretion, retain the right to refer the matter for recommendation and
investigation to the Zoning Commission, and shall also have the right by
majority voter to (i) affirm the disapproved certificate, (ii) require
corrective measures prior to correction, or (iii) override the Zoning and
approve the Certificate of Compliance.
   10.   Additional Certifications. The Zoning Administrator shall be
authorized to issue certificates of occupancy, zoning certificates, or similar
certifications upon
request by a landowner or third party, with the fees therefore to be set by the
Council from time to time.
165.17    BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   1.   Board Created. The Board of Adjustment consists of five members all of
whom are taxpayers and residents of the City. They shall be appointed by the
Mayor, subject to confirmation by the Council. One member of the Board may be a
member of the City Planning Commission. Appointments to the Board shall be for
a term of five years. Any vacancy shall be filled by appointment for the
unexpired term only. All members shall serve without compensation.
   2.   Meetings. The meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson, and at such other times as the Board may determine. Such
Chairperson, or in the Chairperson’s absence, the acting Chairperson, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. The meetings of the
Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member on each question, or if absent or
failing to vote, the minutes shall indicate such fact. The Board shall keep
records of its examinations and other official actions, which shall be
immediately filed in the office of the Board as a public record. The presence
of three members shall be necessary to constitute a quorum.
   3.   Appeals. Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved, or
by any officer, department, or board or bureau of the City affected by any
decision of the Zoning Administrator. Such appeal shall be taken within ten
days by filing with the Zoning Administrator and with the Board written notice
of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The Zoning Administrator shall
forthwith transmit to the Board all papers constituting the record upon which
the action appealed from is taken. An appeal stays all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the Zoning Administrator
certifies to the Board after the notice of the appeal shall have been filed
with the Zoning Administrator, that by reason of facts stated in the appeal a
stay would in said official’s opinion cause imminent peril to life or property.
In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining
order which may be granted by the Board or by a court of record on application
of notice to the Zoning Administrator and on due cause shown. Appeals to the
Board from the decision of the Zoning Administrator shall not be considered by
the Board until a fee, set by resolution, for each such appeal is deposited by
the appellant with the Clerk. Such fee shall be paid at the same time as the
notice to the Board that is herein delineated is given. The City may, from time
to time, apply such fees as it deems necessary to defray administration and
expenses in processing the appeal. The appellant is required to set stakes
showing the boundaries of the proposed construction at least one week prior to
the hearing date.
   4.   Hearings; Notice. The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing
on the appeal, give public notice thereof as well as due notice to the parties
in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. At the hearing, any
party may appear in person or by agent or attorney.
   5.   Powers; Administrative Review. The Board shall hear and decide appeals
where it is alleged that there is error in any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the Zoning Administrator in the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter.
   6.   Powers; Exceptions. The Board shall permit the following exceptions to
the district regulations set forth in this chapter subject to the requirements
of this section:
      A.   To permit erection and use of a building or the use of premises or
vary the height and the regulations in any location for a public service
corporation for public utility purposes or for purposes of public
communication, which the Board determines is reasonably necessary for the
public convenience or welfare.
      B.   To permit the extension of a use into a district where it would be
otherwise prohibited, in a case where a district boundary line is so located
that a lot or plat is in more than one district.
   7.   Powers; Special Exceptions. The Board shall have the authority to hear
and decide only such other special exceptions as the Board is specifically
authorized to pass on by the terms of this chapter; to decide such questions as
are involved in determining whether special exceptions should be granted; and
to grant special exceptions with such conditions and safeguards as are
appropriate under this chapter, or to deny special exceptions when not in
harmony with the purpose and intent of this chapter. A special exception shall
not be granted by the Board unless and until:
      A.   A written application for special exception is submitted indicating
the section of this chapter under which the special exception is sought and
stating the grounds on which it is requested.
      B.   Notice of public hearing shall be given at least 10 days in advance
of public hearing. The owner of the property for which special exception is
sought or such person’s agent and any other affected property owners shall be
notified by mail. Notice of hearing shall also be posted on the property for
which special exception is sought. Any party may appear in person, or by agent,
or attorney.
      C.   Requests for variances to permit a nonconforming use in addition to
being made to the Board of Adjustment shall also be automatically forwarded by
the Clerk to the Zoning Commission which shall thereafter have the right to
make recommendations for or against the proposed special exception, and shall
have the right to appear before the Board of Adjustment. No request for
exception shall be passed upon by the Board of Adjustment without first being
referred to and a report on recommendations received from the Zoning
Commission.
   8.   Powers; Variances. The Board shall have the authority to authorize upon
appeal in specific cases such variances from the terms of this chapter as will
not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a
literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter would result in
unnecessary hardship. A variance from the terms of the Zoning Ordinance shall
not be granted by the Board unless and until:
      A.   A written application for a variance is submitted demonstrating
that:
         (1)   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to
the land, structure or building involved and which are not applicable to other
lands, structures or buildings in the same district.
         (2)   Literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this chapter.
         (3)   The special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant.
         (4)   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant
any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other lands,
structures, or buildings in the same district.
No nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures, or buildings in the same
district, and no permitted use of lands, structures, or buildings in other
districts shall be considered grounds for the issuance of a variance.
      B.   Notice of public hearing shall be given at least 10 days in advance
of public hearing. The owner of the property for which special exception is
sought or an agent of said owner and any other affected property owners shall
be notified by mail. Notice of hearing shall also be posted on the property for
which special exception is sought. Any party may appear in person, or by agent,
or by attorney.
   9.   Decisions of the Board of Adjustment. The concurring vote of three
members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement,
decision, or determination of the Zoning Administrator, or to decide in favor
of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this
chapter, or to effect any variation in the application of this chapter.
   10.   Appeals From the Decision of the Board of Adjustment. Any taxpayer, or
any officer, department, board or bureau of the City, or any person or persons
jointly or severally aggrieved by a decision of the Board of Adjustment may
present to a court of record a petition, duly verified, setting forth that such
decision is illegal, in whole or in part, specifying the grounds of the
illegality. Such petition shall be presented to the court within 30 days after
the filing of the decision in the office of the Board. The court may reverse or
affirm, wholly or in part, or may modify the decision brought up for review.
   11.   Duties on Matters of Appeal. It is the intent of this chapter that all
questions of interpretation and enforcement shall be first presented to the
Zoning Administrator, and that such questions shall be presented to the Board
of Adjustment only on appeal from the decision of the Zoning Administrator, and
that recourse from the decisions of the Board of Adjustment shall be to the
courts as provided by law and particularly by statute. It is further the intent
of this chapter that the duties of the Council in connection with this chapter
shall not include hearing and deciding questions of interpretation and
enforcement that may arise. The procedure for deciding such questions shall be
as stated in this section and this chapter. Under this chapter, the Council
shall have only the duties of considering and adopting or rejecting proposed
amendments or the repeal of the ordinance codified by this chapter, as provided
by law and of establishing a schedule of fees and charges.
   12.   Complaints Regarding Violations. Whenever a violation of this chapter
occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written
complaint. Such complaint stating fully the causes and basis thereof shall be
filed with the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall record
properly such complaint, immediately investigate, and take action thereof as
provided by this chapter.
165.18    AMENDMENTS.
   1.   The Council may, from time to time, on its own initiative, on petition,
or on recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission, after public notice
and hearings provided by law, and after a report by the Commission or after 30
days’ written notice to the Commission, amend, supplement, or change the
regulations or districts herein or subsequently established.
   2.   Whenever the owners of 50% or more of the area of the lots in any
district or part thereof desire any amendment, supplement or change in any of
the provisions of this chapter applicable to such area, they may file a
petition with the Clerk requesting the Council to make such amendment,
supplement or change. Such petition shall be accompanied by a map or diagram
showing the area affected by the proposed amendment, supplement or change,
together with the boundaries of the area and such petition shall immediately be
transmitted to the Commission for an investigation and report. The Commission
shall file its recommendations approving, disapproving or modifying the
proposed amendment, supplement or change with the Council within 30 days
thereafter.
   3.   If a written protest against any proposed amendment, supplement or
change shall have been presented to the Council, signed by the owners of 20% or
more, either of the area of the lots included in such proposed change, or of
those immediately adjacent in the rear thereof, extending the depth of one lot
or not to exceed 200 feet therefrom or of those directly opposite thereto,
extending the depth of one lot or not to exceed 200 feet from the street
frontage of such opposite lots, such amendment shall not become effective,
except by the favorable vote of at least three-fourths of all the members of
the Council.
   4.   Whenever a petition requesting an amendment, supplement, or change of
any regulation prescribed by this chapter has been denied by the Council such
petition cannot be renewed for one year thereafter unless it is signed by at
least 50% of the property owners who previously objected to the change. This
provision, however, shall not prevent the Council from acting on its own
initiative in any case or at any time as otherwise provided in this section.
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances which amended the Official Zoning Map referred to
in this chapter have not been included as a part of this Code of Ordinances
but have been specifically saved from repeal and are in full force and
effect.
ORDINANCE NO. DATE ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. DATE ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances which amended the Official Zoning Map referred to
in this chapter have not been included as a part of this Code of Ordinances
but have been specifically saved from repeal and are in full force and
effect.
ORDINANCE NO. DATE ADOPTED       ORDINANCE NO. DATE ADOPTED
388           June 19, 1972      2009-03       February 17, 2009
391           May 8, 1973        2013-05       March 4, 2013
Unnumbered    May 5, 1975        2013-06       March 4, 2013
Unnumbered    January 3, 1977    2013-07       March 4, 2013
410           March 7, 1977      2017-04       June 19, 2017
411           March 7, 1977      2017-06       August 7, 2017
412           April 4, 1977      2018-09       September 17, 2018
416           May 16, 1977       2018-10       September 17, 2018
425           April 17, 1978     2020-03       April 6, 2020
431           June 26, 1978      2021-01       September 20, 2021
446           December 20, 1979  2023-05       June 5, 2023
447           December 20, 1979  2023-06       June 5, 2023
457           November 3, 1980   2023-11       November 20, 2023
459           November 17, 1980
461           June 15, 1981
462           July 6, 1981
471           October 18, 1982
475           March 21, 1983
484           May 7, 1984
515           October 5, 1987
523           May 16, 1988
526           September 19, 1988
531           October 2, 1989
96-09         October 21, 1996
98-01         January 5, 1998
99-04         April 5, 1999
2000-02       May 15, 2000
2000-11       December 18, 2000
2001-03       June 4, 2001
2002-03       April 15, 2002
2002-05       October 7, 2002
2003-10       October 20, 2003
2004-03       May 17, 2004
2005-08       April 18, 2005
 
165.19   SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
This section is intended to provide a set of procedures and standards for
specified uses of land or structures that will allow practical latitude for
owners and developers, while maintaining guidelines to ensure the health,
safety, convenience and general welfare of the citizens of Humboldt. This
section permits detailed review of certain types of land-use activities that,
because of their particular and unique characteristics, require special
consideration in relation to their effect on adjacent properties and to the
community as a whole.
Land and structural uses meeting the criteria set forth in this section may be
authorized by the Board of Adjustment within zoning districts in which they are
not otherwise expressly allowed by the issuance of a Special Use Permit.
   1.   Application Requirements. An application for a Special Use Permit shall
be filed with the City Administrator and shall be accompanied by:
      A.   A statement with supporting evidence that the general and specific
standards delineated in this chapter will be met;
      B.   A site plan meeting all the submittal requirements set forth in
Section
165.16(2); and
      C.   Preliminary plans and specifications for all proposed construction
activities.
   2.   Procedure for Special Use Permits. The Board of Adjustment shall
consider the application at a public hearing conducted as part of a scheduled
meeting. Notification of the public hearing shall be made by mail, posting, and
publication, in accordance with Sections
165.17(7)(B) of the Humboldt Municipal Code. The Zoning Board of Adjustment
must approve, deny, or modify the Special Use Permit application within 60 days
of the public hearing.
   3.   Review Criteria. Before a Special Use Permit Application can be
approved, the Board of Adjustment shall establish that the following general
standards, as well as the specific standards outlined in Subsections A. and B.
below, where applicable, have been or shall be satisfied. The Board’s action
shall be based on stated findings of fact demonstrating such satisfaction.
      A.   General Standards. The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall review each
application for the purpose of determining that each proposed use meets the
following standards; and in addition, shall find adequate evidence that each
use in its proposed location will:
         (1)   Be harmonious with and in accordance with the general principles
and proposals of the current Land Use Policy/Plan of the City;
         (2)   The specific proposed exception will not be injurious to the use
and enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity, and will not
materially diminish or impair property value unreasonably in the neighborhood.
         (3)   Establishment of the special proposed exception will not impede
the normal and orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property
for uses permitted in the district in which such property is located.
      B.   Specific Standards.
         (1)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and/or necessary
facilities have been or are being provided.
         (2)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress
or egress designed to minimize traffic congestion on public streets.
         (3)   Except for the specific regulations and standards applicable to
the exception being considered, the specific proposed exception, in all other
respects, conforms to the applicable regulations or standards of the zone in
which it is to be located.
   4.   Expiration of Special Use Permits.
      A.   A Special Use Permit shall automatically expire (i) if, within one
year after issuance, substantial action has not been taken to accomplish the
purpose for which the permit was granted; or (ii) after substantial action has
been taken and subsequently such work is discontinued for a period of one year,
the permit shall immediately expire; or (iii) the conditional use has been
established and subsequently is discontinued for a period of one year, the
permit shall immediately expire.
      B.   The Board of Adjustment may extend for a period up to one year the
date when a permit would otherwise expire if it concludes that: (i) the permit
has not expired; or (ii) the permit recipient has proceeded in good faith and
with due diligence; or (iii) conditions have not changed so substantially as to
warrant a new application. Successive extensions may be granted for periods up
to one year upon the same findings. All such extensions may be granted without
reversion to the formal processes and fees required for the original permit.
      C.   For purposes of this section, the Conditional Use Permit is issued
when the Board of Adjustment votes to approve the application and plans.
Substantial action shall include commencement of construction, erection,
alteration, demolition or similar work required for the development authorized
by the permit. With respect to phased development, this shall apply only to the
first phase.
   5.   Conditions. The Board of Adjustment may impose such conditions or
restrictions upon the construction, location, and operation of a special use,
including but not limited to provisions for the protection of adjacent
property, the expiration of said special use after a specified period of time,
and off-street parking and loading, as shall be deemed necessary to secure the
general objectives of this chapter, and to reduce injury ot the value of
property in the neighborhood.
(Section 165.19 – Ord. 2023-02 – Jan. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 166
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
166.01 Purpose                            166.09 General Requirements
166.02 Definitions                        166.10 Improvements Required
166.03 Plat Required                      166.11 Mobile Home Courts
166.04 Procedure                          166.12 Planned Unit Development
166.05 Requirements of Preliminary Plat   166.13 Changes and Amendments
166.06 Requirements of Final Plat         166.14 Zoning Classification
166.07 Plans, Profiles and Cross Sections 166.15 Existing Subdivisions
166.08 Modifications of Requirements
 
166.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the harmonious development of the
City; for the coordination of streets and public utilities within subdivisions
with other existing or platted streets and public utilities or with other
features of the City Plat; for adequate open spaces for traffic, recreation,
schools, light and air; and for a distribution of population and traffic which
will tend to create conditions favorable to health, safety, convenience and
prosperity.
166.02    DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms or words are defined.
   1.   “Building lines” means lines on a plat between which lines and streets
no buildings or structures may be erected.
   2.   “Commission” means the City Planning and Zoning Commission.
   3.   “Cul-de-sac” means a minor street with only one outlet and culminated
by a turnaround.
   4.   “Easement” means a grant by the property owner of the use, for a
specific purpose, of a strip of land by the general public, a corporation or
certain persons.
   5.   “Lot” means a portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended
for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or for
building development.
   6.   “Major street” means a street designated as a major street on the major
street plat of the City or so identified by the Council.
   7.   “Minor street” means a street not designated as a major street on the
major street plat of the City or so I dentified by the Council.
   8.   “Minor subdivision” means any subdivision containing 5 or fewer lots
all of which front on an existing paved street approved to City standards, and
which does not require any new street upgrades, or the extension or creation of
any municipal utilities, services or other public improvements (and otherwise
not in conflict with any provision of the City’s comprehensive plan, official
zoning map, or other regulations).
   9.   “Performance bond” means a surety bond or cash deposit made out to the
City, in an amount equal to the full cost of the improvements which are
required by this chapter, said cost estimated by the City Engineer, and said
surety bond or cash bond being legally sufficient to secure to the City that
the said improvements will be constructed in accordance with this chapter.
   10.   “Roadway” means that portion of the street available for vehicular
traffic, and where curbs are laid, the portion from back to back of curbs.
   11.   “Street” means all property dedicated or intended for public or
private use for access to abutting lands or subject to public easement
therefor, and whether designated as a street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway,
throughway, expressway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place, circle or however
otherwise designated.
   12.   “Subdivider” means any person dividing or proposing to divide land so
as to constitute a subdivision as defined herein, and includes any agent of the
subdivider.
   13.   “Subdivision” means the division of land into two or more lots or
other division of land into parcels of one acre or less in area for the
purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or building
development; or any change in existing street lines or public easement. The
term, when appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or
to the land subdivided, or the resubdivision of land heretofore divided or
platted into lots or other divisions of land, or, if a new street is involved,
any division of land.
166.03    PLAT REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for the owner, agent or persons having control of any land
within the corporate limits of the City or, pursuant to Section 354.9 of the
Code of Iowa, within two miles thereof, to subdivide or lay out such land into
lots, blocks, streets, avenues, alleys, public ways and grounds, unless by plat
in accordance with the laws of the State and the provisions of this chapter.
166.04    PROCEDURE.
In obtaining final approval of a proposed subdivision by the Commission and the
Council, the subdivider shall comply with the following:
   1.   The subdivider shall first prepare and file with the Commission eleven
copies of a preliminary plat conforming to the requirements set forth in this
chapter. Thirteen copies of the preliminary plat shall be submitted for
subdivisions outside the corporate limits of the City. The plat shall show the
layout of the entire area to be ultimately subdivided even though only a
portion may be intended for initial development. The portion to be initially
developed shall be clearly indicated on the plat.
   2.   The Commission shall forthwith send two copies to the City Engineer. In
the case of subdivisions outside the corporate limits of the City, the
Commission shall send two copies of the preliminary plat to the County Board of
Supervisors and keep the County Engineer advised of the status of the plat and
actions taken thereon.
   3.   The City Engineer shall examine said plat as to its compliance with the
laws and regulations of the City, the existing street system, and good
engineering practices, and shall within 15 days submit findings in duplicate to
the Commission together with one copy of the plat received. The City Engineer
shall also confirm whether the proposed subdivision meets the requirements of a
minor subdivision if presented by the subdivider as such.
   4.   The Commission shall, upon receiving the City Engineer's report, as
soon as possible, but not more than 30 days thereafter, consider said report
and pass upon the preliminary plat. It shall then set forth its recommendation
in writing, whether of approval, modification, or disapproval. In case of
modification or disapproval, it shall give its reasons therefor. The Commission
shall forthwith return one copy of the approved preliminary plat to the
subdivider.
   5.   Upon approval of the preliminary plat by the Commission the subdivider
may proceed with the preparation of the final plat and detailed construction
drawings and specifications for the improvements required under this chapter.
In the case of a minor subdivision, the preliminary plat, as approved by the
Commission and with the inclusion of the final lot dimensions, shall be deemed
to have been accepted by the Commission as a final plat, and shall be submitted
to the Council for review as the final plat pursuant to paragraph 9 below. No
performance bonds are required with a minor subdivision.
   6.   The approval of the preliminary plat by the Commission is revocable and
does not constitute final approval or acceptance of the subdivision by the
Council or authorization to proceed on construction of improvements within the
subdivision but shall constitute approval of layout and general engineering
proposals and plats.
   7.   Before submitting the final plat to the Commission for approval, the
subdivider shall furnish all plats and information as listed in “Final Plat
Requirements” necessary for the detailed engineering consideration of the
improvements required and obtain the approval of the City Engineer which shall
be endorsed thereon.
   8.   For final plat approval the subdivider shall submit to the Commission:
      A.   Thirteen copies of the final plat showing initial development and
ultimate development.
      B.   A performance bond in the amount approved by the City Engineer. Said
bond must cover the entire area being subdivided.
      C.   One copy of the certified approved plats, profiles, cross sections
and specifications.
      D.   A certificate from the City Engineer that the final plat is
substantially in accord with the preliminary plat as approved by the
Commission.
   9.   When the final plat has been passed upon by the Commission, thirteen
copies of the final plat and performance bond shall forthwith be transmitted to
the Council, together with a certificate showing the action of the Commission.
   10.   When the final plat has been approved by the Council, the performance
bond accepted and all 13 copies duly certified, nine copies shall be delivered
to the Commission; one copy to the City Engineer and two to the Clerk for their
respective files, and one to the subdivider for filing with the County
Recorder. If said plat is disapproved by the Council, such disapproval shall
point out in writing wherein said proposed plat is objectionable.
   11.   The passage of the resolution accepting the plat shall constitute
final approval of the platting of the area shown on the final plat, but the
owner shall cause such plat to be recorded in the office of the County Recorder
and shall file satisfactory evidence of such recording in the office of the
Clerk before the City shall recognize the plat as being in full force and
effect.
   12.   Acceptance of the final plat by the Council shall constitute
acceptance of the public right-of-ways. Any liens against the property shall be
against the remainder of the property and not against the public right-of-ways.
Evidence of this shall be filed with the final plat. The performance bond is
assurance that the developer will complete the improvements required within the
public right-of-ways.
   13.   The State requires certain certification be entered of record together
with the certified plat. See Chapter 354 of the Code of Iowa.
   14.   Upon receipt of the duly certified copies of the final plat by the
Commission, the recording secretary of the Commission will transmit copies of
the plat, upon which have been placed the official house numbers as determined
by the City Engineer, to the subdivider, the waterworks department, the gas
company and the telephone company.
   15.   Receipt of the duly certified final plat by the subdivider is
authorization that the subdivider may proceed with the installation and
construction of the required improvements.
   16.   The Council will return the performance bond to the subdivider upon
certification by the City Engineer of satisfactory completion of the
installation and construction of the required improvements. Prior to
certification by the City Engineer, the subdivider shall file with the City
Engineer plats, profiles, and cross sections of the required improvements as
they have been built. The subdivider has two years from the date the Council
approves the final plat to complete all improvements required by these
regulations. Improvements are considered complete when accepted by the Council.
The Council shall use the performance bond to complete the improvements if not
completed within two years.
166.05    REQUIREMENTS OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
The preliminary plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn to a scale of one inch
to one hundred feet or less and shall be plainly marked “Preliminary Plat.” The
plat shall show:
   1.   The proposed name of the subdivision and, if different, the title under
which the subdivision is to be recorded.
   2.   The name and address of the owner and the name, address and profession
of the person preparing the plat.
   3.   The date, scale and north point and a key map showing the general
location of the proposed subdivision in relation to surrounding development.
   4.   The legal description of the area being platted.
   5.   The boundary lines (accurate in scale), the dimensions and location of
property to be platted and the location of section lines.
   6.   Contours with intervals of not more than five feet.
   7.   The names and location of adjacent subdivisions and the name of record
owners and location of adjoining parcels of unplatted land.
   8.   The location of property lines, streets and alleys, easements,
buildings, utilities, watercourses, tree masses and other existing features
affecting the plat.
   9.   The zoning classification and proposed use for the area being platted.
   10.   The layout, numbers and approximate dimensions of proposed lots.
   11.   The layout of all existing and proposed building lines and easements.
   12.   The location, width and dimensions of all streets, alleys and grounds
proposed to be dedicated for public use.
   13.   Proposed names for all streets in the area being platted.
   14.   Written and signed statements explaining how and when the subdivider
proposes to provide and install all required sewers or other disposal of
sanitary wastes, pavement, sidewalks and drainage structures.
   15.   Written and signed statements of the appropriate officials of the
availability of gas, electricity and water to the proposed subdivision.
   16.   Any restrictions proposed to be included in the owner’s declaration of
plat.
166.06    REQUIREMENTS OF FINAL PLAT.
The final plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn to a scale of one inch to one
hundred feet or less in ink on quality vellum, 11" x 17", approved by the City
Clerk. The plat shall show:
   1.   The title under which the subdivision will be recorded.
   2.   The name or names of the owners and subdividers.
   3.   The date, scale and north point and a key map showing the general
location of the proposed subdivision.
   4.   The legal description of the area being platted.
   5.   Accurate distances and bearings of all boundary lines of the
subdivision including all sections, U.S. survey and congressional township
lines.
   6.   Centerlines of all proposed and adjoining streets with their right-of-
way width and names.
   7.   Lines of all lots with a simple method of numbering to identify all
lots and blocks.
   8.   All building lines and all easements provided for public service
together with their dimensions and any limitations of the easements.
   9.   Any and all dimensions necessary for accurate location of the
boundaries of the site to be developed and of all streets, lots, easements and
dedicated areas. These dimensions shall be expressed in feet and decimals of
feet.
   10.   All radii, arcs, points of tangency, central angles, lengths and
degrees of curves.
   11.   Certification by a registered land surveyor that the final plat as
shown is a correct representation of the survey as made.
   12.   All survey monuments and bench marks (bench marks shall be tied to
city or geodetic datum), together with their description.
   13.   Private restrictive covenants and their period of existence.
   14.   The accurate outline, dimensions and purposes of all property which is
offered for dedication or is to be reserved for acquisition for public use, or
is to be reserved by deed covenant for the common use of the property owners in
the subdivision.
   15.   Information to be Provided in Accompanying Material. The following
material shall be submitted to the Clerk at least fifteen days prior to the
Council meeting to be acted upon following Commission action on the final plat.
      A.   A statement by the proprietors and their spouses, if any, that the
subdivision plat is prepared with their free consent in accordance with their
desire, signed and acknowledged by the proprietor and the proprietor's spouse
before an officer authorized to take the acknowledgment of deeds. The statement
by the proprietors may also include a dedication to the public of all lands
within the plat that are designated for streets, alleys, parks, open areas,
school property, or other public use, if the dedication is approved by the
Council.
      B.   A statement from the mortgage holders or lien holders, if any, that
the plat is prepared with their free consent and in accordance with their
desire, signed and acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the
acknowledgment of deeds. An affidavit and bond as provided for in Code of Iowa
Section 354.12 may be recorded in lieu of the consent of the mortgage or lien
holder. When a mortgage or lien holder consents to the subdivision, a release
of mortgage or lien shall be recorded for any areas conveyed to the governing
body or dedicated to the public.
      C.   An opinion by an attorney-at-law who has examined the abstract of
title of the land being platted. The opinion shall state the names of the
proprietors and holders of mortgages, liens, or other encumbrances, along with
any bonds securing the encumbrances. Utility easements shall not be construed
to be encumbrances for the purpose of this section.
      D.   A certified resolution by each governing body as required by Code of
Iowa Section 354.8 either approving the subdivision or waiving the right to
review, including a statement by the Auditor approving the name of the
subdivision plat.
      E.   A certificate of the County Treasurer that the land is free from
certified taxes and certified special assessments or that the land is free from
certified taxes and that the certified special assessments are secured by bond
in compliance with Code of Iowa Section 354.12.
166.07    PLANS, PROFILES AND CROSS SECTIONS.
The subdivider shall submit to the City Engineer the following plats, profiles
and cross sections, drawn to a horizontal scale of one inch to one hundred feet
or less and a vertical scale of one inch to ten feet or less, and
specifications for the construction of the improvements for the subdivision as
required in this chapter. All elevations shall be referred to mean sea level or
City datum.
   1.   The plat and profiles of each street with tentative grades and street
intersection elevations.
   2.   The cross sections of proposed streets showing the width of roadways,
present and proposed grade lines, and location and size of utility mains. The
cross sections shall be taken and platted at intervals of not more than fifty
feet along the centerline and shall extend out to the sides to that point where
the proposed grade intersects the existing grade. In no case shall these cross
sections be extended less than the full width of the right-of-way.
   3.   The plat and profile of proposed sanitary sewers and storm water sewers
with grades and pipe sizes indicated and a plat of the proposed water
distribution system showing pipe sizes and location of valves and fire
hydrants.
   4.   Standard specifications for the required improvements approved by the
City Engineer may be used.
166.08    MODIFICATIONS OF REQUIREMENTS.
Where in the case of a particular proposed subdivision, it can be shown that
strict compliance with the requirements of this chapter would result in
extraordinary hardship to the subdivider because of unusual topography or other
such non-self-inflicted conditions, or that these conditions would result in
inhibiting the achievement of the objectives of this chapter, the Council may
vary, modify or waive the requirements so that substantial justice may be done
and the public interest secured; provided, however, that such variance,
modification or waiver will not have the effect of nullifying the intent and
purpose of this chapter or interfering with carrying out the Comprehensive Plat
of the City. In no case shall any variance, modification or waiver be more than
a minimum easing of the requirements and in no instance shall it have the
effect of reducing the traffic capacity of any street below that shown on the
Comprehensive Plat of the City or be in conflict with the Zoning Ordinance and
map. Such variances and waivers may be granted only by the affirmative vote of
three-fourths of all the members of the Commission. In granting variances and
modifications, the Commission may require such conditions as will, in its
judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the requirements so varied or
modified.
166.09    GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Acreage Subdivisions. Where the parcel of land is subdivided into
larger tracts than ordinarily used for building lots, such parcels shall be
divided so as to allow for the opening of major streets and the ultimate
extension of adjacent minor streets. Easements providing for the future opening
and extension of such streets, may, at the discretion of the Council, be made a
requirement of the plat.
   2.   Relation to Existing Streets. New subdivisions shall make provisions
for the continuation of the principal existing streets in adjoining areas (or
their proper projection where adjoining property is not subdivided) insofar as
they may be necessary for the public requirements.
   3.   Minimum Street and Alley Widths.
      A.   The widths and locations of major streets shall conform to the
widths and locations designated on the major street plat of the City.
      B.   The minimum width of a minor street (cul-de-sac or dead end) shall
be fifty feet. Where streets adjoin unsubdivided property a half street at
least 33 feet in width shall be dedicated. No homes shall be constructed on
half streets.
      C.   Alleys shall not be provided in a residential block. Alleys are
required in the rear of all business lots and shall be at least 20 feet in
width.
   4.   Minimum Roadway Width.
      A.   The minimum roadway width for streets shall be 37 feet.
      B.   The minimum roadway width for alleys shall be 20 feet.
      C.   The minimum roadway width for cul-de-sacs shall be 29 feet.
   5.   Cul-de-sac and Dead End Streets. Except in cases where unusual
topographic conditions may make it advisable to modify these provisions, the
following shall apply:
      A.   Maximum length of 500 feet.
      B.   Vehicular turnaround area at the closed end of a street shall have a
minimum radius of 50 feet and the roadway shall have a minimum radius of 40
feet to the exterior curb line. No unpaved center island will be permitted in
the turnaround area.
      C.   In the case of temporary dead-end streets, which are stub streets
designed to provide future connection with unsubdivided areas adjoining, the
Commission may require a temporary easement for a turnaround of the nature
indicated above, or an appropriate area for a back around, or a roadway at
least 37 feet in width of not excessive length to connect the temporary dead
end with an existing street.
   6.   Street Grades.
      A.   Streets shall be so arranged that grades shall not exceed seven
percent for major streets and ten percent for minor streets. The Commission may
permit variation from these grades where it deems modification advisable to
adjust to topographic situations.
      B.   Gutter grades on paved gutters shall not be less than four tenths of
one percent.
      C.   All changes in street grades shall be connected by a vertical curve
of reasonable length to assure adequate visibility. Minimum curve lengths shall
be 20 feet for each percent of grade change on major streets and 15 feet for
each percent of grade change on minor streets.
      D.   In approaching intersections, there should be a suitable leveling of
the street at a grade generally not exceeding four percent and for a distance
of generally not less than 100 feet from the nearest line of the intersection
street. The grade within the intersection should be as level as possible,
permitting proper drainage.
      E.   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 150 feet shall be
avoided.
      F.   A tangent of at least 100 feet long shall be introduced between
reverse curves on major streets.
      G.   When connecting street lines deflect from each other at any one
point by more than 10 degrees, they shall be connected by a curve with a radius
adequate to insure a sight distance of not less than 100 feet for minor streets
and of such greater radii as the Commission shall determine for special cases.
   7.   Intersections.
      A.   Street roadway intersections shall be rounded radii of at least 20
feet.
      B.   Streets shall be laid out to intersect as nearly as possible at
right angles, and may be curved approaching the intersection in order to bring
this about; no street shall intersect any other street at any angle of less
than 60 degrees.
      C.   The design of the intersection should be such that a clear sight
distance will be maintained for 75 feet at the roadway centerline, with no
obstruction to sight within the triangle formed at these points.
   8.   Street Names. Streets that are obviously in alignment with others
already existing and named shall bear the name of the existing streets. The
proposed names of new streets shall be shown on the final plat and such names
shall not duplicate or sound similar to existing street names. The City
Engineer shall approve street names and house numbers.
   9.   Blocks.
      A.   No block shall be longer than 1000 feet between street lines. An
easement near the center of the block not less than ten feet wide for a
crosswalk may be required on blocks that are over 750 feet in length.
      B.   The width of blocks, except for special reasons, shall not be less
than 200 feet and not more than 350 feet.
   10.   Lots.
      A.   The lot arrangement and design shall be such that all lots will
provide satisfactory building sites, properly related to topography and the
character of surrounding development.
      B.   The width and area of all lots shall comply with the requirements of
the zoning district in which it is located. However, no residential lot shall
be less than 80 feet in width at the building line, or less than 100 feet in
depth, or less than 8000 square feet in area.
      C.   All subdivisions located in the corporate limits of the City shall
be connected to the public sewer system and the public water system.
      D.   Corner lots shall have front building setback lines on both
adjoining streets.
      E.   In all lots so far as possible, the side lines shall be at right
angles to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines except where a
variation of this rule will provide a better street and lot layout.
      F.   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots shall be avoided except
where their use will produce definite advantages in meeting special situations
in relation to topography, sound site platting and proper land use.
   11.   Building Lines. Building lines conforming to zoning standards shall be
shown on all lots within the platted area. Where the subdivided area is not
under zoning control, the Commission may require building lines in accordance
with the needs of each subdivision. The minimum building line permitted for
residential lots shall be 30 feet front and 10 feet side. (See paragraph (10)
(D) in this section for corner lots.) Provisions shall be made by the owner’s
declaration of plat, requiring all enclosed parts of buildings to be set back
to such building lines.
   12.   Character of Development. The Commission and Council may require that
certain minimum regulations regarding type and character of development be
incorporated in the owner’s declaration of plat. Such regulations shall be
intended to protect the character and development of the platted subdivision,
as well as that of the surrounding development.
   13.   Easements for Public Utilities. Where alleys are not provided in the
plat, easements of not less than five feet in width shall be granted to the
City by the owner of each side of all rear and where necessary side lot lines
for public utility requirements. Easements of greater width may be required
along lot lines or across lots when necessary for extensions of main sewers or
other utilities. No buildings or structures will be permitted on easements. If
City utility services are provided to unincorporated areas, every effort to
incorporate or annex the property will be made.
   14.   Maintenance of Improvements Outside Corporate Limits. Where a
subdivision outside the corporate limits contains sewers, sewage treatment
plants, water supply systems, park area, street trees or other physical
facilities necessary or desirable for the welfare of the area and which are of
common use or benefit and which the City does not desire to or cannot maintain,
provision shall be made by trust agreements made a part of the deed
restrictions acceptable to the City for the proper and continuous maintenance
and supervision of such facilities by the lot owners in the subdivision.
   15.   Monuments. Monuments (3/4" x 30" iron stakes or 4" x 4" x 30" concrete
posts) shall be placed at block corners, point of curves, change in direction
along lot lines and at each lot corner in accordance with City specifications.
166.10    IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
The subdivider shall install and construct all improvements required by this
chapter. All required improvements shall be installed and constructed in
accordance with the specifications and under the supervision of the Council and
to its satisfaction.
   1.   Streets and Alleys. All streets and alleys within the platted area
which are dedicated for public use shall be brought to the grade approved by
the Council and after receiving the report and recommendations of the City
Engineer a deed to the City shall be given for all streets and alleys before
the same will be accepted for City maintenance.
   2.   Street Surfacing and Design.
      A.   All residential local streets (minor streets), those used primarily
for access to the abutting properties, and residential collector streets, those
carrying traffic from local streets to major streets, shall be constructed to
the following minimum design standards:
         (1)   6" P.C.C. Pavement with 2" Class A Rolled Stone Base (AASHTO SN
3.24); or
         (2)   6" A.C.C. Pavement with 6" Class A Rolled Stone Base (AASHTO SN
3.12).
      B.   All major streets shall be constructed to the following minimum
design standards:
         (1)   6" P.C.C. with 6" Class A Rolled Stone Base (AASHTO SN 3.72); or
         (2)   7.5" A.C.C. with 6" Class A Rolled Stone Base (AASHTO SN 3.72).
      C.   All streets shall have P.C.C. curb and gutter. The Council may
require other types of surfacing and curb and gutter prior to acceptance of
plat and dedication of said streets where circumstances warrant.
   3.   Sidewalks. Sidewalks with a minimum width of four feet and a minimum
thickness of four inches of Portland cement concrete may be installed or in
certain instances may be required by the Council. Sidewalks shall be
constructed to the grade approved by the Council after receiving the report and
recommendation of the City Engineer.
   4.   Water Lines. The subdivider shall connect with such water main and
provide a water connection for each lot in accordance with waterworks
department standards, procedure and supervision. Minimum water main size shall
be six-inch. Main valves shall be installed at least every 800 feet. Fire
hydrants shall be installed at least every 600 feet. Fire hydrant size shall be
six-inch. A valve shall be installed on each hydrant service or lead line six-
inch minimum.
   5.   Sewers.
      A.   The subdivider shall connect or provide for the connection with such
sanitary sewer and shall provide within the subdivision the sanitary sewer
required to make the sewer accessible to each lot in the subdivision. Sewer
systems shall be approved by the Council and the State Department of Health and
the construction subject to the supervision of the City Engineer.
      B.   Adequate provisions shall be made for the disposal of storm waters,
subject to the approval of the Council, and to the supervision of the City
Engineer.
      C.   Whenever the developer is required by the City to install a larger
water main or sewer main or to install a sewer main at greater depth in order
to provide for future development beyond said development, the City shall pay
the difference between that required by the developer and that requested by the
City. In the event that the closest sanitary sewer is incapable of handling the
proposed increase, the City may designate a reasonable alternate route, or the
City may construct relief lines for the overloaded sewer. It is the duty and
responsibility of the City to provide sewers wherever possible and reasonable
to new subdivisions within the City and on the immediate periphery of the
corporate limits.
      D.   The developer shall compact all utility ditches by tamping or
jetting to minimize future settlement. The Council at its option may require a
maintenance bond, not exceeding one year, to assure backfilling and repair of
additional settlement.
      E.   If a development includes all or a portion of a proposed public park
as designated in the comprehensive plat for the City, the park land shall be
sold or dedicated to the City. If a sale price cannot be agreed upon, the City
may exercise eminent domain. Additional park land may be negotiated for by the
City or may be dedicated or offered to the City by the developer.
   6.   Driveway Aprons. All driveway approaches to off-street parking from
curb line to walk line shall have a minimum standard requirement of 10 feet at
walk line, 16 feet at curb line and a minimum thickness of 5 inches of concrete
or equal, if paved.
   7.   Street Lighting. The developer shall install street lighting of design
and location approved by the Council with underground wiring and shall pay the
cost of lighting the same until the streets are approved and accepted as
provided in Subsection 2 of this section.
166.11    MOBILE HOME COURTS.
   1.   Location. Subdivision of land for the purpose of creating a mobile home
court or park may be permitted in those areas not excluding such use in the
Zoning Ordinance.
   2.   Compliance. All of the rules and regulations set forth in this Code of
Ordinances regulating the subdivision of land shall also apply to subdivisions
created for mobile homes except as noted in this section. Approval of the plat
must be obtained from the State Health Board prior to submission to the City
for final approval.
   3.   Exceptions.
      A.   The minimum lot size shall be 3500 square feet with a minimum
frontage of 35 feet.
      B.   Setback distance shall be at least 15 feet on front and rear and 5
feet on side lot lines except as noted for corner lots in Section
166.09(10)(D).
      C.   Minimum roadway width shall be 27 feet back to back of curbs.
Roadway width may be coincidental with street width. Mobile home court streets
and alleys shall not be deeded to the City for maintenance. Cul-de-sacs shall
have a minimum outside radius of 40 feet.
      D.   In no case will a mobile home court subdivision be approved by the
City that does not have public sewers and an approved sewage disposal system.
No private septic tanks will be approved.
      E.   Each dwelling unit shall be provided with one parking space
contiguous to the unit area. This parking space may be either garage, carport
or paved slab. The parking space of one unit shall not conflict with the space
provided for any other unit.
      F.   All sewer and water lines inside the mobile home court shall be
installed, maintained and repaired by the owner. The City will meter the water
and bill the court through a single meter on the water main into the area.
166.12    PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
Planned Unit Developments, hereinafter referred to as PUD, will be considered
on an individual basis by the Commission. An individual study is deemed
necessary not only because of the complex nature of a PUD but also to encourage
freedom of ideas by the PUD developers. In general no area less than ten acres
will be considered for a PUD. All of the rules and regulations set forth in
this Code of Ordinances regulating the subdivision of land shall also apply to
subdivisions created for a PUD except as noted in this section.
   1.   Single- and two-unit residential units may be intermingled with
multiple-unit residences, commercial areas, shopping centers and industrial
parks on a platted unit basis.
   2.   Single-unit lot sizes may be reduced to 6,000 square feet total area
with a minimum frontage of 60 feet.
   3.   Open, public space (parks, foot paths, ponds, golf courses, etc.) in an
amount equivalent to 1,200 square feet per family occupancy in the completed
development shall be provided.
   4.   Provision for permanent preservation and maintenance of the public open
space shall be made. This land may be deeded to the City, a special
governmental district may be formed, or a nonprofit corporation of home owners
may be established.
   5.   Each dwelling unit shall be provided with two parking spaces contiguous
to the unit area. The parking spaces of one unit shall not conflict with the
spaces provided for any other unit.
   6.   Building setbacks shall be 20 feet front and 5 feet side except as
noted for corner lots in Section
166.09(10)(D).
166.13    CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
Any regulations or provisions of this chapter may be changed and amended from
time to time by the Council; provided, however, such changes and amendments
shall not become effective until after a public hearing has been held, public
notice of which shall have been given in a newspaper of general circulation in
the City at least fifteen days prior to such hearing.
166.14    ZONING CLASSIFICATION.
All lands presented to the Commission for subdividing or resubdividing shall be
automatically zoned R-1. Formal action by the Commission and approval by the
Council are required for zoning reclassifications.
166.15    EXISTING SUBDIVISIONS.
Any subdivision whose final plat has been filed and approved by the Council
prior to the enactment of the ordinance codified by this chapter shall not be
in violation of this chapter. Any less restrictive regulation imposed on such a
subdivision shall be deemed an exception of this chapter and not a violation
thereof.
CHAPTER 167
AIRPORT ZONING REGULATIONS
 
167.01 Definitions                        167.07 Enforcement
167.02 Airport Zones and Air-Space Height 167.08 Board of Adjustment
Limitations
167.03 Height Limitations                 167.09 Appeals
167.04 Use Restrictions                   167.10 Conflicting Regulations
167.05 Nonconforming Uses                 167.11 Penalties
167.06 Permits
 
167.01 DEFINITIONS.
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
   1.   “Airport” means an area of land that is used or intended to be used for
the landing and takeoff of aircraft, and includes its buildings and facilities.
The Humboldt Municipal Airport, is situated upon the Southeast ¼ of Section 34
and the Southwest ¼ of Section 35, in Township 92 North, Range 29 West of the
5th P.M., in Humboldt County, Iowa, and is operated by the City.
   2.   “Airport Commission” means the Humboldt Airport Commission as
established by
Chapter 27 of the City of Humboldt Code of Ordinances.
   3.   “Airport elevation” means the highest point on an airport’s usable
runways expressed in feet above mean sea level (MSL). The Humboldt Municipal
Airports elevation is assumed to be 1098 feet.
   4.   “Airport layout plan” means a scaled drawing (or set of drawings), in
either traditional or electronic form, of current and future airport facilities
that provides a graphic representation of the existing and long-term
development plan for the airport and demonstrates the preservation and
continuity of safety, utility, and efficiency of the airport to the
satisfaction of the FAA.
   5.   “Board of Adjustment” means the Humboldt Zoning Board of Adjustment
appointed as provided in Section
165.17.
   6.   “Hazard” means any structure or object of natural growth located on or
in the vicinity of a public airport, or any use of land near a public airport
that obstructs the airspace required for the flight of aircraft landing or
taking off at the airport; or is otherwise hazardous to aircraft landing or
taking off at the airport.
   7.   “Height” means, as used in height limits, elevation above sea level
determined as in the definition of airport elevation above.
   8.   “Nonconforming use” means any structure, tree, or use of land which
does not conform to a regulation of this chapter or amendment thereof, and is
lawfully in existence at the time of the adoption of the ordinance codified by
this chapter.
   9.   “Obstruction” is any structure, growth or other object which would
exceed the Federal obstruction standards as contained in 14 Code of Federal
Regulations Sections 77.21, 77.23 and 77.25 as revised March 4, 1972, and
provided in Section
167.02 herein. Obstructions include existing and proposed manmade objects,
objects of natural growth, and terrain; whether permanent, temporary, mobile or
fixed.
   10.   “Runway” means the portion of the landing area used for landing and
taking off of aircraft and designated on the Airport Zoning Overlay Map as a
runway.
   11.   “Utility runway” means a runway that is constructed for and intended
to be used by propeller driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight
and less.
   12.   “Visual runway” means a runway intended solely for the operation of
aircraft using visual approach procedures, with no straight-in instrument
approach procedure and no instrument designation indicated on an FAA approved
Airport layout plan.
167.02    AIRPORT ZONES AND AIR-SPACE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
In order to carry out the provisions of this section, there are hereby created
and established certain zones which are depicted on the Airport Overlay Zoning
Map. An object located in more than one zone of the following zones is
considered to be only in the zone with the more restrictive height limitation.
The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows:
   1.   “Primary surface” is longitudinally centered on a runway centerline.
For hard surface runways, the primary surface extends 200 feet beyond each end
of that runway and is 250 feet wide (125 feet on either side of the runway
centerline). The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as
the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
   2.   “Runway protection zone” is trapezoidal in shape and is centered about
the extended runway centerline. It extends from a point 200 feet beyond the
runway threshold for a horizontal distance of 1,000 feet and expands from a
width of 250 feet to a width of 450 feet.
   3.   “Approach surface” is a surface longitudinally centered on the extended
runway centerline and extending outward and upward from each end of the primary
surface. The inner edge of the approach surface is the same width as the
Primary Surface (250 feet). The surface expands uniformly over a horizontal
distance of 5,000 feet to a width of 1,250 feet for the end of a utility runway
with a visual approach (Runways 12 and 30).
   4.   “Transitional surfaces” extend outward and upward at right angles to
the runway centerline. The surfaces extend at a slope of 7 horizontally to 1
vertically (7:1) from the sides of the primary surface and from the sides of
the approach surfaces. The transitional surfaces extend to the point at which
they intercept the horizontal surface at a height of 150 feet above the
established airport elevation.
   5.   “Horizontal surface” is a horizontal plane 150 feet above the
established airport elevation, the perimeter of which is constructed by
swinging arcs of specified 5,000 feet radii from the center of each end of the
primary surface of each runway of each airport and connecting the adjacent arcs
by lines tangent to those arcs.
   6.   “Conical surface” is a surface extending outward and upward from the
periphery of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20 to 1 for a horizontal
distance of 4,000 feet.
167.03    HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no obstruction shall be erected,
altered, allowed to grow or be maintained above the surface of any zone created
by this chapter.
167.04    USE RESTRICTIONS.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may be made of
land within any zone established by it in such a manner as to create electrical
interference with radio communication between the airport and aircraft, make it
difficult for flyers to distinguish between airport lights and others, result
in glare in the eyes of flyers using the airport, impair visibility in the
vicinity of the airport or otherwise endanger the landing, taking off, or
maneuvering of aircraft.
167.05    NONCONFORMING USES.
   1.   Regulations Not Retroactive. The regulations prescribed in this chapter
shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other changes or
alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the
effective date of the ordinance codified by this chapter, or otherwise
interfere with the continuance of any nonconforming use. Nothing herein
contained shall require any change in the construction, alteration, or intended
use of any structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun prior
to the effective date of said ordinance, and is diligently prosecuted.
   2.   Marking and Lighting. Notwithstanding the preceding provision of this
section, the owner of any nonconforming structure or tree is hereby required to
install, operate, and maintain thereon of such markers and lights as shall be
deemed necessary by the Airport Commission to indicate to the operators of
aircraft in the vicinity of the airport, the presence of such airport hazards.
167.06    PERMITS.
   1.   Future Uses. Except as specifically provided in this section, no
material change shall be made in the use of land and no structure or tree shall
be erected, altered, planted or otherwise established in any zone hereby
created unless a permit therefor shall have been applied for and granted. Each
application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is
desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to be determined whether
the resulting use, structure or tree would conform to the regulations herein
prescribed. If such determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be
granted.
      A.   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal surface and
the conical surface, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less
than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when because of
terrain, land contour or topographic features such tree or structure would
extend above the height limits prescribed for such zone.
      B.   In the areas lying within the limits of the approach surface but at
a horizontal distance of not less than 4,200 feet from each end of the runways,
no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than 75 feet of
vertical height above the ground, except when such tree or structure would
extend above the height limit prescribed for such approach surface.
      C.   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition surface
beyond the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for
any tree or structure less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground
except when such tree or structure, because of terrain, land contour or
topographic features would extend above the height limit prescribed for such
transition surface.
Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be construed as
permitting or intending to permit any construction, alteration or growth of any
structure or tree in excess of any of the height limits established by this
chapter and except as set forth in Section
167.03.
   2.   Existing Uses. No nonconforming use shall be replaced, rebuilt,
altered, allowed to grow higher, or replanted, so as to constitute a greater
airport hazard than it was when this chapter or any amendment thereto rendering
such use nonconforming, were adopted and no permit shall be granted that would
allow it.
   3.   Nonconforming Uses Abandoned or Destroyed. Whenever the Airport
Commission determines that a nonconforming structure, tree or use has been
abandoned or more than 60 percent torn down, physically deteriorated, or
decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree to
exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning
regulations, nor shall it be reconstructed, repaired or resumed after having
been abandoned or torn down, deteriorated or decayed to such extent.
   4.   Variances. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or otherwise use property not in
accordance with the regulations prescribed in this chapter, may apply to the
Board of Adjustment for a variance from such regulations. Such variances shall
be allowed where it is duly found that a literal application or enforcement of
the regulations would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship
and the relief granted would not be contrary to the public interest but will do
substantial justice and be in accordance with the spirit of this chapter and
the laws of the State pertaining to airport zoning.
   5.   Hazard Marking and Lighting. Any permit or variance may be granted
subject to any reasonable conditions that the Board of Adjustment may deem
necessary to effectuate the purpose of this chapter and be reasonable in the
circumstances, and may require the owner of the structure or tree in question
to, at its own expense, to install, operate, and maintain thereon such markers
and lights as may be necessary to indicate to operators of aircraft the
presence of an airport hazard.
167.07    ENFORCEMENT.
It shall be the duty of the Airport Commission to administer and enforce the
regulations prescribed herein. Applications for permits and variances shall be
made to the Airport Commission upon a form furnished by it. Applications
required by this chapter to be submitted to the Airport Commission shall be
promptly considered and granted or denied by it. Applications for action by the
Board of Adjustment shall be forthwith transmitted by the Airport Commission.
167.08    BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   1.   The Board of Adjustment shall have and exercise the following powers:
      A.   Appeals. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is
error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Airport
Commission in the enforcement of this chapter;
      B.   Special Exemptions. To hear and decide special exceptions to the
terms of this chapter upon which such Board of Adjustment under such
regulations may be required to pass; and
      C.   Variances. To hear and decide specific variances.
   2.   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for its governance and
procedure in harmony with the provisions of this chapter. Meetings of the Board
of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other
times as the Board of Adjustment may determine. The Chairperson, or in the
absence of the Chairperson, the acting Chairperson may administer oaths and
compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Board of Adjustment
shall be open to the public. The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent
or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examinations, and other official actions, all of which shall immediately be
filed in the office of the Board and shall be a public record.
   3.   The Board of Adjustment shall make written findings of fact and
conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal
conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming, or modifying any order,
requirement, decision or determination which comes before it under the
provisions of this chapter.
   4.   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board of
Adjustment shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Airport Commission or to decide in favor of the applicant,
on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this chapter or to effect
variance from such regulations.
167.09    APPEALS.
   1.   Any person aggrieved, or any officer, department, board or bureau of
the City or County affected by any decision of the Airport Commission made in
its administration of this chapter may appeal to the Board of Adjustment.
   2.   All appeals hereunder must be taken within a reasonable time as
provided by the rules of the Board of Adjustment, by filing with the Airport
Commission and with the Board of Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the
grounds thereof. The Airport Commission shall forthwith transmit to the Board
of Adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed from was taken.
   3.   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Airport Commission certifies to the Board of
Adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason
of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in its opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order of the Board of Adjustment on
application on notice to the Airport Commission from which the appeal is taken
and on due cause shown.
   4.   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing any party may appear
in person or by agent or by attorney.
   5.   The Board of Adjustment may, in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make such order,
requirement, decision or determination, as ought to be made and to that end
shall have all the powers of the Airport Commission.
167.10    CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this chapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict is with respect to height of structures or trees,
the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or
requirement shall govern and prevail.
167.11    PENALTIES.
Each day a violation of this chapter or of any regulation, order, or ruling
promulgated hereunder continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 168
AIRPORT REGULATIONS
 
168.01 Motor Vehicles Restricted         168.04 Animals Running at Large
168.02 Cycles and Snowmobiles Restricted 168.05 Trespassing
168.03 Operation of Unlicensed Aircraft  168.06 Discharge of Firearms
 
168.01 MOTOR VEHICLES RESTRICTED.
Operation of motor vehicles upon the Humboldt Municipal Airport, except within
designated roadways or driveways, and excepting maintenance vehicles permitted
thereon by the Airport Commission, is prohibited.
168.02    CYCLES AND SNOWMOBILES RESTRICTED.
The riding of bicycles, motorcycles, snowmobiles or other mechanical devices
upon the premises of the Humboldt Municipal Airport, except maintenance
machines permitted thereon by the Airport Commission, is prohibited.
168.03    OPERATION OF UNLICENSED AIRCRAFT.
The operation of model airplanes, kites or any other airborne device in the
airspace directly above the premises of the Humboldt Municipal Airport, except
aircraft duly licensed as such by the Federal Aviation Administration of the
United States, is prohibited.
168.04    ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
The riding of horses or permitting any livestock to run at large upon the
premises of the Humboldt Municipal Airport is prohibited.
168.05    TRESPASSING.
The trespassing upon the premises of the Humboldt Municipal Airport in any area
except those designated for public access by the Airport Commission, excepting
and excluding licensed pilots, aircraft owners, passengers embarking,
disembarking, loading baggage or unloading baggage, mechanics, maintenance
personnel, peace officers or other public officials permitted or required to be
present thereon in the performance of their duties is prohibited.
168.06    DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
The discharge of any firearm, pneumatic gun, pistol, or revolver, or the
carrying of the same upon the premises of the Humboldt Municipal Airport is
prohibited, except such may be transported thereon if fully eased and unloaded,
or as the use may be permitted by the Airport Commission for bird, rodent or
vermin control. Also excepted and excluded from this section are peace officers
on duty or members of the Armed Forces of the United States or of the Iowa
National Guard.
CHAPTER 169
SIGN REGULATIONS
 
169.01 Intent and Purpose             169.08 Additional Regulations for
                                      Residential Districts
169.02 Applicability                  169.09 Additional Regulations for Non-
                                      Residential Districts
169.03 Definitions                    169.10 Off-Premises Signs
169.04 Sign Permit Required           169.11 Maintenance
169.05 Determination of Sign Size     169.12 Miscellaneous Regulations
169.06 Prohibited Signs               169.13 Nonconforming Signs
169.07 Permitted Signs – All Zoning
Districts
 
169.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
It is the intent and purpose of this Chapter to provide sign regulations that
promote the following objectives:
   1.   Allowing for effective communication and expression without excessive
proliferation or size of signage;
   2.   Protect the public from unsafe signs by requiring proper location,
installation and maintenance, and avoiding undue distractions to persons
driving motor vehicles; and
   3.   Provide a quality community image.
This chapter is intended to govern the regulations of all signs within the City
from and after its enactment. As a result, this chapter shall supersede all
other provisions of the Humboldt Municipal Code intended to regulate signs,
specifically including
Chapter 165.
169.02    APPLICABILITY.
The provisions of this chapter shall govern the installation, erection,
painting or display of any (i) sign located out-of-doors, or (ii) any sign
which is designed to be seen from out-of-doors.
169.03    DEFINITIONS.
The following words or terms shall, for purposes of this chapter, have the
meanings indicated in this section.
   1.   “Billboard” means a sign structure designed for the posting of
changeable graphics or reading matter advertising a product, place, activity,
person, profession, service, institution or business located upon property
other than the premises on which the sign is located.
   2.   “Building frontage” means the horizontal length of that portion of a
building which faces a right-of-way or which faces a parking lot serving the
building.
   3.    “Commercial sign” means a sign advertising or drawing attention to a
commercial (i) activity; (ii) product or service; or (iii) business enterprise
located upon the premises on which the sign is located. For purposes of this
chapter, residential “for sale” or “for lease” signs shall not be considered
“commercial signs”.
   4.   “Construction sign” means a temporary on-premises sign used during
construction of new buildings or substantial additions to existing buildings,
which denotes a project name and/or identifies the architects, engineers,
developers, or contractors.
   5.   “Directional sign” means a sign which is designed and erected solely
for the purpose of directing vehicular or pedestrian traffic and located on the
premises to which or on which the public is directed.
   6.   “Directory sign” means a sign listing the name, and/or use, and/or
location of the various businesses or activities conducted within a building or
group of buildings located on the same premises as the sign.
   7.   “Electronic Message Center” means an electrically activated changeable
sign posting information pertinent to the business or establishment on the
premises where the sign is located whose variable message and/or graphic
presentation capability can be electronically programmed by computer from a
remote location. For purposes of this Ordinance, an Electronic Message Center
shall not be deemed a Flashing Sign “Erect” means to build, construct, install,
attach, hang, place, inscribe, suspend, affix, paint or repaint.
   8.   “Flashing sign” means a sign which contains an intermittent flashing
light source or which includes the illusion of intermittent or flashing light
by means of animation or an externally mounted intermittent light source; any
sign in which any part of the light source varies in intensity and/or hue and
flashes or appears to flash or turn on and off; or a sign in which a message
constantly flashes or turns on and off, or alternates with other copy by means
of rotating or otherwise moving portions of the sign.
   9.   “Freestanding sign” means a pole sign, not attached to a building and
supported wholly by uprights, braces, or posts; or a monument sign, not
attached to a building, whereby the majority or the entirety of the base of the
sign is attached directly to the ground, or attached to an elevated landscape
planter box or structure not exceeding three feet in height.
   10.   “Ground level” means the elevation of the center line of the adjacent
right-of-way at the point closest to the sign.
   11.   “Home-occupation sign” means a sign limited to the display of the name
and phone number of a home occupation. The sign shall not exceed three square
feet in area, shall be non-illuminated, shall be affixed to the main structure
housing the occupation (and not project more than six inches there from), and
shall not be visible through a window.
   12.   “Identification sign” means a non-commercial sign that conveys only
the name, address, and phone number of the building or the occupant of the
building located on the premises where the sign is located, and not exceeding
(i) 12 square feet in area for each 7,000 square feet of lot area (or fraction
thereof), or (ii) 24 square feet for lots greater than 7,000 square feet in
size.
   13.   “Maintain” means to permit a sign, sign structure, or any part of each
to continue, or to repair or refurbish a sign, sign structure, or any part of
each.
   14.   “Marquee sign” means a sign attached to, in any manner, or made part
of a marquee.
   15.   “Nameplate” means a non-electrical sign mounted on a building and
identifying only the name and occupation or profession of the occupant of the
building on which the sign is placed.
   16.   “Non-residential Zoning District” means the following districts in the
City of Humboldt: A-1, C-1, C-2, C-3, I-1, I-2 (as well as any non-residential
PUD).
   17.   “Obsolete sign” means a sign which no longer identifies a bona fide
business, leaser, owner, product, or activity conducted or product available on
the premises where such sign is displayed.
   18.   “Off-premises sign” means an outdoor sign, display, device, figure,
painting, drawing, message, plaque, poster, billboard, or other thing designed,
intended or used to advertise or inform the traveling public of an
establishment, products, services, entertainment, or other information which is
not sold, produced, or furnished upon the premises in which the sign is
located.
   19.   “Open letter sign” means a wall sign consisting of individual or
connected lettering not mounted on any type of background other than a building
or the surface of an integral architectural element of a building. The surface
which forms the background for the letters shall not be illuminated from
behind.
   20.   “Painted graphics” means any mosaic, mural, painting, graphic art
technique, or combination thereof placed on a wall and containing no copy,
advertising symbols lettering, trademarks or other references to the premises
or to the products and/or service offered for sale on the premises.
   21.   “Paper sign” means a temporary sign made of paper, cardboard or
similar material.
   22.   “Parking direction sign” means a sign indicating the entrance or exit
to a parking area.
   23.   “Parking regulation sign” means a sign stating the regulations for use
of a parking area or individual or groups of parking spaces therein.
   24.   “Permanent sign” means all signs which are not temporary signs.
   25.   “Portable sign” means any sign not permanently attached or intended to
be permanently attached to the ground or to a building that has, or is adapted
for, wheels or skids.
   26.   “Public service message sign” means an electronic or electrically
controlled public service message sign which conveys only information such as
time, date, temperature, atmospheric conditions, or general news information
where different alternating copy changes are shown on the same lamp bank matrix
without giving the appearance of directional movement.
   27.   “Real estate sign” means a sign pertaining to the sale or lease of the
real estate on which the sign is located.
   28.   “Residential Zoning District” means the following districts in the
City of Humboldt: R-1, R-2, R-3, M-1 (as well as any residential PUD).
   29.   “Roof sign” means a sign erected on or above a roof, parapet, or roof
eave, when installed in a manner such that the sign or any portion thereof
extends beyond the limits of the visible surface of the roof or wall when
viewed from normal eye level from the centerline of the adjacent public right-
of-way.
   30.   “Sign” means any device or surface located out-of-doors or intended to
be seen from out-of-doors, on which letters, illustrations, designs, figures or
symbols are depicted, printed or attached and which conveys (i) support for a
person, team, event, or cause (ii) information, or (iii) identification. For
purposes of this chapter, “sign” shall include flags, banners, pennants,
valences, and inflatable devices.
   31.   “Street frontage” means the length of the property line of any one
premises along the public right-of-way it fronts.
   32.   “Temporary promotional display” means a temporary sign or signs
displayed so as to attract attention to the sale of merchandise or services, or
a change in policy or in the status of a business, including “yard sale” and
“garage sale” signs.
   33.   “Temporary sign” means a sign which is not illuminated and is not
permanently installed or affixed to any sign, structure or building.
   34.   “Wall sign” means any sign attached and parallel to a wall or similar
architectural element which is an integral part of a building.
   35.   “Window sign” means any sign painted on, attached to or displayed in a
window directed towards persons outside the building.
   36.   “Zoning Administrator” shall be the Humboldt City Administrator, or
such other person as the City Council may hereafter designate.
169.04    SIGN PERMIT REQUIRED.
   1.   Except as set forth in Section
169.07, it shall be unlawful for any person to erect, repair, alter, relocate,
paint, repaint, enlarge, replace, or materially alter any sign within the City
without first obtaining a sign permit which has been duly issued by the Zoning
Administrator.
   2.   Permit Application. Application for a sign permit shall be submitted to
the City Clerk and shall contain or have attached thereto the following
information:
      A.   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the applicant, the
owner of the property on which the sign is to be erected or affixed, and the
company to be erecting or affixing the sign.
      B.   Two sets of plans (to-scale) and specifications of the sign to be
erected or affixed, detailing the method of construction and attachment to the
building or ground. Such plans and specifications shall include information on
material, dimensions (size and height), and electrical details (if applicable)
and all other information required by the Zoning Administrator to determine
compliance with the building code.
      C.   For any freestanding sign or projecting sign, the applicant shall
submit two site plans drawn to scale, locating such signs by dimension from the
lot lines.
      D.   Written consent of the property owner upon which the sign is to be
erected or affixed, if different than the applicant.
      E.   Such other information as may be determined necessary by the Zoning
Administrator to determine compliance with this chapter.
169.05    DETERMINATION OF SIGN SIZE.
The following regulations shall govern the determination of the size of a sign:
   1.   The surface area of a sign shall be computed by including the entire
area within a perimeter of not more than eight straight lines, or a circle or
an ellipse, enclosing the extreme limits of the writing, representation, emblem
or other display, together with any material, framing or color forming an
integral part of the background of the display or used to differentiate the
sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is placed.
   2.   The posts or other supporting structures associated with a pole sign
shall not be included in computing the sign area. In computing the sign area
for a monument sign, the entire area of the sign shall be considered, exclusive
of its elevated landscape planter box or base structure.
   3.   For two-sided, multisided, or three-dimensional signs, the sign surface
area shall be computed by including the total of all sides designed to attract
attention or communicate information that can be seen at any one time by a
person from one vantage point. Without otherwise limiting the generality of the
foregoing:
      A.   The sign surface area of a double-faced, back-to-back sign shall be
calculated by using the area of only one side of such sign, so long as the
distance between the backs of such signs does not exceed three feet.
      B.   The sign surface area of a double-faced sign constructed in the form
of a 'V' shall be calculated by using the area of only one side of such sign
(the larger side if there is a size difference), so long as the angle of the
'V' does not exceed 30 degrees.
   4.   For open letter signs, only two-thirds of the area, computed in
accordance with Subsection 1 above, shall be counted as the area of the sign.
169.06    PROHIBITED SIGNS.
Except as otherwise set forth herein, the following types of signs are
prohibited in all zoning districts within the City:
   1.   Moving signs of which all or any part of the sign moves or which
appears to move by any means, including fluttering or rotating. This
prohibition includes but is not limited to pennants, streamers, or propellers.
   2.   Flashing signs, except illuminated signs which indicate the time,
temperature, weather or other similar information shall not be considered
flashing signs; provided, that (i) the total area of such sign is not greater
than 16 square feet with no one side greater than eight feet in length, (ii)
the vertical dimension of any letter or number is not greater than 24 inches,
and (iii) the color or intensity of light is constant except for periodic
changes in the information display, which occur not more frequently than once
every 30 seconds.
   3.   Strips or strings of lights outlining property lines, sales area, roof
lines, doors, windows, wall edges or other architectural features of a
building, except between Thanksgiving and January 10th of the following year.
   4.   Signs on public land or public rights-of-way, other than real estate
open house signs; those signs erected at the direction or with the permission
of a public authority; and signs authorized to project into a right-of-way in
accordance with this chapter.
   5.   Signs which are not securely affixed to the ground, or affixed in a
permanent manner to an approved supporting structure.
   6.   Signs attached to, painted on, or placed on any vehicle including a
trailer that is parked in public view on private property. This provision is
not to be construed as prohibiting the identification of a firm or its
principal products on a vehicle operating during the normal course of business
or parked after business hours, provided parking takes place as inconspicuously
as possible and the duration of the parking does not exceed a period of any 16
continuous hours, except on weekends or holidays.
   7.   Off-premises advertising signs, except as authorized under Section
169.10 of this chapter.
   8.   “Sold” signs, displayed more than 10 days following the removal of the
property from the market.
   9.   Obsolete signs remaining 30 days after they become obsolete.
   10.   Signs installed, erected, enlarged or structurally altered in
violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   11.   Signs which have become deteriorated or damaged to an extent that the
cost of the reconstruction or restoration of such signs is in excess of 50
percent of its replacement cost (exclusive of foundations).
   12.   Signs lettered in a crude or amateurish fashion, or which contain or
convey defamatory, profane, or obscene messages or symbols.
   13.   Other signs not expressly permitted by this chapter.
169.07    PERMITTED SIGNS – ALL ZONING DISTRICTS.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the following types of signs are
allowed, without a permit, in all of the zoning districts of the City.
   1.   Signs, other than commercial signs and off-premises signs, not
exceeding (i) 12 square feet in area and three feet in height for each 7,000
square feet of lot area or fraction thereof; (ii) 16 square feet in area and
five feet in height for each 12,000 square feet of lot area (or fraction
thereof); or (iii) 25 square feet in area and five feet in height for a lot
greater than 12,000 square feet in area. Height shall be measured from the
ground at the base of the sign to the highest point of the sign or its support.
In the case of real estate signs and construction signs, such signs shall be
displayed only on the premises which are for sale or lease or under
construction and only during the time the premises are for sale or lease or
under construction. The number of signs, described in this subsection, shall be
limited to one sign for each street frontage per premises for sale or lease,
political office up for election, civic campaign issue, or other noncommercial
message.
   2.   Off-premises real estate open house signs and open house directional
signs but only during open house hours and when the owner or a representative
of the owner is in attendance. Such directional signs may be located off-
premises and within a street right-of-way, subject to the requirements of
Section
169.10(5).
   3.   Official public notices and notices posted by a public authority in
accordance with public notice requirements as may be required by law.
   4.   Governmental or railroad signs for the control or direction of traffic
and other public purposes.
   5.   Private “No Parking” or “No Trespassing” signs which are no larger than
three square feet in gross sign area.
   6.   Signs painted, or applied in decal form, in the windows of commercial
and industrial districts not exceeding three square feet in gross sign area for
each business located on the ground floor of the premises.
   7.   Painted graphics not exceeding 12 square feet in area when located in a
nonresidential zoning district.
   8.   Temporary signs including, but not limited to, garage sale, patio sale,
yard sale, porch sale, basement sale or any similarity thereto, that do not
exceed five square feet and are located upon premises where the sale is taking
place. These signs shall be removed within 24 hours following the completion of
the sale.
   9.   Tablets or plaques in building walls denoting names of buildings, names
of officers and officials and date of erection when cut into any masonry
surface or when constructed of bronze or other incombustible materials.
   10.   Address numbers for the premises on which they are located.
   11.   The following flags:
      A.   In any zoning district, official flags of the United States of
America, states, cities or other regional or national governmental flags.
      B.   In any residential district, flags with noncommercial design
elements including insignias, emblems, logos commonly used for decorative,
seasonal, sports, or school identification purposes.
      C.   In any non-residential district, flags with design elements
including primary sign information, insignias, emblems and logos commonly used
by and associated with the business or organization when displayed on the
premises.
      D.   Limitations:
         (1)   No off-premises advertising shall be permitted as a flag under
this section.
         (2)   Flags must not exceed a total surface area of 16 square feet.
   12.   Up to two permanent subdivision or development signs (one on each
corner of the entry street) not exceeding 50 square feet in size each,
inclusive of any logo, shall be allowed for any planned development,
subdivision, multiple-family apartment, mobile home park, or condominium
development with ten or more lots or units, or for any commercial or industrial
subdivision, or commercial/industrial planned development with five or more
lots. Where the subdivision or development has access on two or more streets,
or has more than one entrance on one street, up to two such signs shall be
allowed at each entrance.
   13.   Electronic Message Center, subject to the following limitations:
      A.   All Electronic Message Center signs shall have automatic dimming
controls in order to bring the lighting level during the day to no more than
10,000 nit and at night to no more than 1,000 nit ambient light (measured at a
distance of 5').
      B.   Electronic Message Center signs shall only be allowed in a
Residential District if all of the following conditions are met:
         (1)   The sign is placed on a property with a permitted non-residual
use.
         (2)   The sign is no closer than 250' from a residential structure.
         (3)      No scrolling, full-motion video, or flashing shall be
permitted.
         (4)      The sign shall have a minimum display time of 10 seconds, and
the transition time between messages shall be limited to one second.
169.08    ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   1.   General. It is unlawful to erect, permit the erection of, display or
permit the display of any sign in connection with a residential use or in a
residential zoning district (or in a residential PUD District) unless such sign
is expressly permitted by this chapter, and subject to the limitations and
provisions stated in this chapter.
   2.   Single-family and Two-family Residential Uses. No signs, other than
those permitted under the provisions of Section
169.07 of this chapter, shall be permitted in A-1, R-1 or R-2 residential
zoning districts, or in connection with single-family and two-family
residential uses in other zoning districts, EXCEPT for (i) a single home
occupation sign per premises, and (ii) a single identification sign per
premises.
   3.   Multifamily Residential Uses. The following types of signs, subject to
the limitations prescribed in this chapter, shall be the only signs permitted
in R-3 or M-1 residential districts (or in a multi-family residential PUD
District), or in connection with multifamily residential uses in other
districts:
      A.   Signs permitted under the provisions of Section
169.07 of this chapter.
      B.   A single home occupation sign per premises.
      C.   A single identification sign per premises.
      D.   One parking direction sign not exceeding four square feet in gross
sign area and not exceeding a height of ten feet, for each driveway serving
three or more dwelling units.
      E.   One parking regulation sign not exceeding four square feet in gross
sign area for each three parking spaces.
169.09    ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NON-RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   1.   General. It is unlawful to erect, permit the erection of, display or
permit the display of any sign in connection with any nonresidential use or in
the following zoning districts: (commercial) PUD, C-1, C-2, C-3, I-1, I-2,
unless such sign is expressly permitted by this chapter, subject to all of the
limitations and provisions stated in this Section
169.09.
   2.   Commercial Signs.
      A.   Each business or institution occupying the ground floor of a
premises shall be permitted a commercial sign or signs with a total gross sign
area of not more than 25 square feet. This total gross sign area may be
increased to 40 square feet if the building frontage of the portion of the
building occupied by the business or institution exceeds 19 feet; increased to
80 square feet if the building frontage of the portion of the building occupied
by the business or institution exceeds 90 feet; and increased to one hundred
120 square feet if the building frontage of the portion of the building
occupied by the business or institution exceeds one hundred 120 feet. Primary
signs may be freestanding signs, wall signs, roof signs, window signs, or signs
affixed to or painted on canopies or awnings, subject to the limitations stated
herein.
      B.   Each business or institution occupying other than the ground floor
of a premises and having a direct exterior entrance shall be permitted
commercial wall or window signs of not more than four square feet. The sign
shall only be displayed on the part of the building occupied by that business
or institution.
      C.   Each business or institution with no ground floor frontage other
than an entrance on the ground floor shall be permitted to install a single
wall sign, window sign or sign affixed to or painted on a canopy or awning,
provided the sign does not project beyond the limits of the width of the
entrance and the height of the ground floor story. Such sign shall be limited
to a gross sign area equal to one and one-half square feet for each foot of
building frontage occupied by the entrance up to a maximum of 15 square feet.
Where open letter signs are used, the full area of the enclosing rectangle or
circle shall be counted as the gross area of the sign. Where an entrance is
shared by more than one business or institution, only one sign shall be
installed which shall contain the identification for no more than three
businesses or institutions. The term “entrance,” where used in this subsection,
means the space which is allocated to providing ground floor access from the
exterior of the building and which is not part of a ground floor tenant space.
      D.   Each business or institution occupying the ground floor of a
premises (and not located within a strip center or shopping center) shall be
permitted one freestanding commercial sign, not exceeding ten feet in sign
height, for each street frontage; except that when the street frontage exceeds
300 feet, such freestanding sign maybe increased in sign height to a maximum of
22 feet.
      E.   Canopy and Awning Signs. Signs may be attached to or painted
directly on a canopy or awning provided such signs shall not extend beyond the
bottom edge of such canopy or awning. There shall also be allowed a single sign
not exceeding four square feet in gross sign area that is hung below a canopy
or awning; provided, they allow a clearance of at least seven feet above the
sidewalk or other pedestrian way.
      F.   Roof Signs. No signs shall be constructed on or project above the
roof unless the sign is composed of individual freestanding letters or
connected strip lettering which does not exceed 24 inches in height above the
leading edge of the roof.
      G.   Painted Wall and Roof Signs. Painted wall and roof signs shall be
permitted only after posting a bond in a form acceptable by the City in the
amount of one thousand dollars $1,000.00 for the removal of the sign by
sandblasting, re-roofing or other approved means should the sign become an
obsolete sign as defined herein.
      H.   Bulletin Boards. No more than one bulletin board, not exceeding 12
square feet in area, shall be permitted for each street frontage.
      I.   Public Service Message Signs. Public service message signs shall be
permitted when attached to a freestanding sign or to a building wall, provided
the street frontage of the use involving the sign exceeds 300 feet along the
street on which the sign is located. The illuminated message area shall not
exceed ten square feet in area.
      J.   Temporary Promotional Displays. Temporary promotional displays shall
be permitted for a maximum of 40 calendar days during a calendar year, with a
gross sign area equal to the maximum gross sign area permitted for primary
signs for said use, provided the displays are securely mounted to minimize
movement due to wind and air currents and a permit is obtained for such
temporary promotional display prior to installation.
   3.   Special Purpose Signs. Signs authorized in this subsection are not to
be included in calculating the allowable sign area for on-premise signs under
Subsection 2 above.
      A.   Freestanding parking direction signs and directional signs shall be
permitted for each driveway provided the sign does not exceed 12 square feet in
gross sign area, the sign height does not exceed five feet, and no portion of
the sign is located closer than 12 feet from a street curb line. If the sign is
located at a private driveway which is for the exclusive use of a single
business or institution, the sign may contain the name or address of such
business or institution. If the driveway is not for the exclusive use of a
single business or institution, the parking directional sign shall be limited
to directional information only and shall not contain any other information
such as the name or address of a business or institution.
      B.   Parking Regulation Signs. One non-illuminated parking regulation
sign, not exceeding five square feet in gross sign area and not exceeding ten
feet in sign height, shall be permitted for each parking lot. Parking lots with
more than 20 parking spaces shall be permitted one sign for each 20 parking
spaces or fraction thereof.
      C.   Directory Signs. Buildings or a group of buildings containing
various businesses or activities are permitted one directory sign at or near
each building or courtyard entrance. Such sign shall contain only the names of
the businesses served by such entrance or courtyard and shall not exceed a
gross sign area of one square foot times the number of businesses listed on the
sign.
      D.   Group Directory Signs. Groups of businesses or institutions shall be
permitted one freestanding directory sign; provided that:
         (1)   The group contains a minimum of three establishments with a
minimum average floor area of 4,000 square feet each; and
         (2)   The sign does not exceed 40 square feet in gross sign area and
10 feet in sign height; provided, however, if the street frontage for the group
is over 300 lineal feet, the sign may be increased to 80 square feet in gross
sign area and 15 feet in sign height. A commercial group directory sign which
exceeds either 10 feet in height or 40 square feet in area shall maintain a
minimum right-of-way setback of five feet and shall not be located closer than
150 feet from any property which does not contain a building or establishment
in the group; and
         (3)   No other freestanding signs related to businesses within the
group, other than parking direction signs and directional signs not exceeding
six feet in height, shall be located within 200 feet of a commercial group
directory sign. A commercial group directory sign may include the name of the
commercial group, address and directory information.
169.10    OFF-PREMISES SIGNS.
   1.   Location of Signs.
      A.   No off-premises sign shall be located adjacent to or within 1,000
feet of any interchange. Such 1,000 feet shall be measured from the beginning
or ending of the pavement widening at the exit from or entrance to the main
traveled way.
      B.   No off-premises sign shall be located within 1,000 feet of land
zoned as R-1, R-2, R-3, M-1, C-1, C-2, C-3.
      C.   In order to provide a safety zone to prevent injury or property
damage from collapse of a sign or billboard caused by acts of God or other
causes, each off-premises sign shall have minimum setbacks of the following:
(a) at least 90 feet from its nearest edge to the right-of-way of any public
road, and (b) at least 90 feet from all property lines and from all roofed
structures, from all points of the off-premises sign. No City building permit
shall be issued for construction of any building within the setback/clearance
zone for any off-premises sign.
      D.   No sign shall be located on the roof of a building or on a non-sign
structure.
      E.   No sign shall be located in such manner as to obstruct or otherwise
physically interfere with the effectiveness of an official traffic sign,
signal, or device or obstruct or physically interfere with a motor vehicle
operator’s view of approaching, merging, or intersecting traffic.
   2.   Size. The maximum area for any one sign shall be 288 square feet. Signs
maybe placed back to back, double faced, or in V-type construction with not
more than two displays to each facing, but such sign structure shall be
considered as one sign.
   3.   Height. The maximum height of any off-premises sign shall be 22 feet,
as measured from the average ground elevation at the base of the structural
support of the sign.
   4.   Spacing. No off-premises sign shall be erected within 1000 feet of an
existing off-premises sign on the same side of the roadway, whether or not such
existing sign is located within the City limits.
   5.   Lighting. Illumination of off-premises signs shall be permitted,
subject to the following provisions, provided, however, that such signs shall
not be visible as a result of such illumination during the period from dusk
until dawn from any property, and any dwelling unit thereon, located within the
R-1, R-2, R-3, M-1 zoning districts.
      A.   External lighting, such as floodlights, thin line and gooseneck
reflectors are permitted, provided the light source is directed upon the face
of the sign and is effectively shielded so as to prevent beams or rays of light
from being directed into any portion of the main traveled way of and the lights
are not of such intensity so as to cause glare, impair the vision of the driver
of a motor vehicle, or otherwise interfere with a driver’s operation of a motor
vehicle.
      B.   No sign shall be so illuminated that it interferes with the
effectiveness of, or obscures, any official traffic sign, device, or signal,
nor shall the illumination be directed toward any residential area.
      C.   The maximum average lighting intensity level for such sign shall be
20 foot candles.
169.11    MAINTENANCE.
   1.   All signs and components thereof shall be maintained in good repair,
free of rust, peeling, flaking, fading, broken or cracked components, and
broken or missing letters. All signs, components, supports and their
surroundings shall be maintained in a safe, clean and attractive condition.
   2.   When any sign becomes insecure, in danger of falling or otherwise
unsafe, or if any sign is unlawfully installed, erected or maintained in
violation of any of this chapter or other applicable codes of the City, the
owner thereof, or the person or firm maintaining the same, shall, upon written
notice from the City, immediately in the case of imminent danger and in any
case, within not more than 20 days, make such sign conform to this chapter or
other applicable codes of the City, or remove it. If within 20 days the order
is not complied with, the City may have such sign removed and assess the
expense thereof to the property owner, lessee, or other person responsible
therefore.
169.12    MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS.
   1.   All signs shall comply with the following safety regulations:
      A.   No sign shall be erected, displayed or maintained so as to obstruct
any fire escape, any required exit way, window or door opening used as a means
of egress, or to obstruct any other means of egress from a building; and
      B.   No sign shall be erected, displayed, or maintained in a manner that
interferes with any opening required for ventilation of any structure.
   2.   Projection Into Rights-of-Way. No sign shall project beyond a public
right-of-way line; or otherwise onto public property, except for the following:
      A.   Wall signs not projecting more than 18 inches from the exterior
surface of a building or the surface of an integral architectural element which
is part of the building; or
      B.   Signs mounted on or under a canopy, awning or marquee which is
permitted to project into a right-of-way, where the bottom edge of the sign is
not less than seven feet above the sidewalk or pedestrian way.
      C.   A wall sign may be attached to a building at an angle and project
into the right-of-way, provided:
         (1)   There is no more than one such sign for each entrance door to a
business establishment;
         (2)   The sign does not project more than five feet from the face of
the building;
         (3)   The bottom of the sign is at least ten feet from grade and its
top is no higher than whichever of the following is highest: 40 feet from above
grade, or the height of the building at the building line;
         (4)   No support for the sign shall extend above the cornice line of a
building to which it is attached; and
         (5)   No signs perpendicular to the wall shall be internally
illuminated.
   3.   Sign Illumination. Internal and external illumination of signs shall
concentrate the illumination directly upon the sign so as to prevent glare upon
the street or adjacent property.
   4.   Miscellaneous Advertising Objects Prohibited. No person shall place on,
or suspend from, any building or structure, any goods, wares, merchandise or
other advertising object or structure other than a sign as defined, regulated
and prescribed by this chapter.
   5.   Signs Not to Constitute Traffic Hazard. No sign shall be erected at the
intersection of any streets in such a manner as to obstruct free and clear
vision; or at any location where, by reason of the position, shape or color, it
may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with any authorized
traffic sign, signal or device; or which makes use of the words "stop," "go,"
"look," "danger," "one-way," "yield," or any other word, phrase, symbol or
character in such a manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic.
   6.   Electrical Hazards. No freestanding sign shall be erected within eight
feet of any line conductors, service drops or power lines.
169.13    NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   1.   A “nonconforming sign” means one which was lawfully erected or affixed
prior to the effective date of this chapter or any amendment thereto, and which
no longer is permitted or fails to conform to one or more of the applicable
regulations of this chapter.
   2.   Continuance of Nonconforming Status. Except as provided for herein, all
nonconforming signs may continue to exist provided, however, that such signs
shall not be enlarged, structurally altered, or altered in any other manner,
other than normal maintenance, unless such sign is made to comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
   3.   Replacement of Components and Repairs. Replacement of components or
repairs to a nonconforming sign is permitted, except that if such replacement
of components or repairs exceeds 50 percent or more of its total replacement
value, exclusive of foundations and structural supports, then such sign shall
be removed or made to conform to the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   4.   Discontinuance. If a nonconforming sign does not serve its intended
purpose (e.g., identification of a particular business establishment) for a
period of 90 consecutive days, then such sign shall be removed or made to
conform to the applicable provisions of this chapter.
 
