CODE OF ORDINANCES
OF
KINGSLEY, IOWA
Adopted February 9, 2021, by Ordinance No. 254
Prepared By:   Local Government Professional Services, Inc.
DBA Iowa Codification
P. O. Box 244
114 E 5th Street
Storm Lake, Iowa  50588
(641) 355-4072
www.sc-ic.com
SUPPLEMENT RECORD
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date   Subject
Apr-21    106.08(1)               255      3-9-21 Fees for Collection
          69.10                   256      3-9-21 Temporary Parking Zone
 
CHAPTER 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES
 
1.01  Title                 1.08  Amendments
1.02  Definitions           1.09  Catchlines and Notes
1.03  City Powers           1.10  Altering Code
1.04  Indemnity             1.11  Severability
1.05  Personal Injuries     1.12  Warrants
1.06  Rules of Construction 1.13  General Standards for Action
1.07  Extension of Authority1.14  Standard Penalty
 
1.01   TITLE.
This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Kingsley, Iowa.
1.02   DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in this Code of Ordinances are defined in the Code
of Iowa, such definitions apply to their use in this Code of Ordinances unless
such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council
or repugnant to the context of the provision.  Other words and phrases used
herein have the following meanings, unless specifically defined otherwise in
another portion of this Code of Ordinances or unless such construction would be
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council or repugnant to the
context of the provision:
   1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street, affording
secondary means of access to abutting property. 
   2.   “City” means the City of Kingsley, Iowa.
   3.   “Clerk” means the city clerk of Kingsley, Iowa.
   4.   “Code” means the specific chapter of this Code of Ordinances in which a
specific subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such as the
Building Code and/or a standard code adopted by reference).
   5.   “Code of Ordinances” means the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Kingsley, Iowa.
   6.   “Council” means the city council of Kingsley, Iowa.
   7.   “County” means Plymouth County, Iowa.
   8.   “May” confers a power.
   9.   “Measure” means an ordinance, amendment, resolution or motion.
   10.   “Must” states a requirement.
   11.   “Occupant” or “tenant,” applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
   12.   “Ordinances” means the ordinances of the City of Kingsley, Iowa, as
embodied in this Code of Ordinances, ordinances not repealed by the ordinance
adopting this Code of Ordinances, and those enacted hereafter.
   13.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust or other
legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.
   14.   “Public way” includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.
   15.   “Shall” imposes a duty.
   16.   “Sidewalk” means that surfaced portion of the street between the edge
of the traveled way, surfacing, or curb line and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   17.   “State” means the State of Iowa.
   18.   “Statutes” or “laws” means the latest edition of the Code of Iowa, as
amended.
   19.   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
Words that are not defined in this Code of Ordinances or by the Code of Iowa
have their ordinary meaning unless such construction would be inconsistent with
the manifest intent of the Council, or repugnant to the context of the
provision.
1.03   CITY POWERS.
The City may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if not
inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any power and
perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the rights,
privileges, and property of the City and of its residents, and to preserve and
improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and convenience of its
residents, and each and every provision of this Code of Ordinances shall be
deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and the performance of the
foregoing functions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.1)
1.04   INDEMNITY.
The applicant for any permit or license under this Code of Ordinances, by
making such application, assumes and agrees to pay for any injury to or death
of any person or persons whomsoever, and any loss of or damage to property
whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however arising
from or related to, directly, indirectly, or remotely, the issuance of the
permit or license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of such
applicant, or the agents, employees, or servants of such applicant, to abide by
or comply with any of the provisions of this Code of Ordinances or the terms
and conditions of such permit or license, and such applicant, by making such
application, forever agrees to indemnify the City and its officers, agents, and
employees, and agrees to save them harmless from any and all claims, demands,
lawsuits, or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage, injury, or death,
including all costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason of the foregoing. 
The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a part of any permit or
license issued under this Code of Ordinances or any other ordinance of the
City, whether expressly recited therein or not.
1.05   PERSONAL INJURIES.
When action is brought against the City for personal injuries alleged to have
been caused by its negligence, the City may notify in writing any person by
whose negligence it claims the injury was caused.  The notice shall state the
pendency of the action, the name of the plaintiff, the name and location of the
court where the action is pending, a brief statement of the alleged facts from
which the cause arose, that the City believes that the person notified is
liable to it for any judgment rendered against the City, and asking the person
to appear and defend.  A judgment obtained in the suit is conclusive in any
action by the City against any person so notified, as to the existence of the
defect or other cause of the injury or damage, as to the liability of the City
to the plaintiff in the first named action, and as to the amount of the damage
or injury.  The City may maintain an action against the person notified to
recover the amount of the judgment together with all the expenses incurred by
the City in the suit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.14)
1.06   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the rules of statutory
construction as set forth in Chapter 4 of the Code of Iowa shall be utilized to
ascertain the intent of the Council, with the understanding that the term
“statute” as used therein will be deemed to be synonymous with the term
“ordinance” when applied to this Code of Ordinances.
1.07   EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this Code of Ordinances, the provision shall be construed as
authorizing performance by a regular assistant, subordinate, or a duly
authorized designee of said officer or employee.
1.08   AMENDMENTS.
All ordinances that amend, repeal, or in any manner affect this Code of
Ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, subsection, or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.2)
1.09   CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code of Ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section and subsection), editor’s notes, cross references,
and State law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself,
contained in this Code of Ordinances, do not constitute any part of the law and
are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement, or clarify the contents
of a section.
1.10   ALTERING CODE.
It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this Code of Ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code of
Ordinances in any manner that will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented.
1.11   SEVERABILITY.
If any section, provision, or part of this Code of Ordinances is adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity of
this Code of Ordinances as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof
not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
1.12   WARRANTS.
If consent to enter upon or inspect any building, structure, or property
pursuant to a municipal ordinance is withheld by any person having the lawful
right to exclude, the City officer or employee having the duty to enter upon or
conduct the inspection may apply to the Iowa District Court in and for the
County, pursuant to Section 808.14 of the Code of Iowa, for an administrative
search warrant.  No owner, operator or occupant, or any other person having
charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, rooming unit, structure,
building, or premises shall fail or neglect, after presentation of a search
warrant, to permit entry therein by the municipal officer or employee.
1.13   GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACTION.
Whenever this Code of Ordinances grants any discretionary power to the Council
or any commission, board, or officer or employee of the City and does not
specify standards to govern the exercise of the power, the power shall be
exercised in light of the following standard:  The discretionary power to
grant, deny, or revoke any matter shall be considered in light of the facts and
circumstances then existing and as may be reasonably foreseeable, and due
consideration shall be given to the impact upon the public health, safety and
welfare, and the decision shall be that of a reasonably prudent person under
similar circumstances in the exercise of the police power.
1.14   STANDARD PENALTY.
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this Code of Ordinances for
violation of any particular provision, section, or chapter, any person failing
to perform a duty required by this Code of Ordinances or otherwise violating
any provision of this Code of Ordinances or any rule or regulation adopted
herein by reference shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of at least
$105.00 but not to exceed $855.00. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[2] and 903.1[1a])
CHAPTER 2
CHARTER
 
2.01  Title                             2.04  Number and Term of Council
2.02  Form of Government                2.05  Term of Mayor
2.03  Powers and Duties of City Officers2.06  Copies on File
 
2.01   TITLE.
This chapter may be cited as the charter of the City of Kingsley, Iowa. 1
 
Notes
1 †EDITOR’S NOTE:  Ordinance No. 45 adopting a charter for the City was passed and
  approved by the Council on July 1, 1975.
2.02   FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
The form of government of the City is the Mayor-Council form of government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
2.03   POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
The Council and Mayor and other City officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by State law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the City.
2.04   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of five Council Members elected at large for  terms of
four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.05   TERM OF MAYOR.
The Mayor is elected for a term of two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.06   COPIES ON FILE.
The Clerk shall keep an official copy of the charter on file with the official
records of the Clerk and the Secretary of State, and shall keep copies of the
charter available at the Clerk’s office for public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.1)
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
 
3.01  Municipal Infraction   3.04  Civil Citations
3.02  Environmental Violation3.05  Alternative Relief
3.03  Penalties              3.06  Alternative Penalties
 
3.01   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
A violation of this Code of Ordinances or any ordinance or code herein adopted
by reference or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty required by
the same, with the exception of those provisions specifically provided under
State law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious misdemeanor, or
a simple misdemeanor under Chapters 687 through 747 of the Code of Iowa, is a
municipal infraction punishable by civil penalty as provided herein. 2
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[3])
 
Notes
  †EDITOR’S NOTE:  For criminal penalty for violations of this Code of
2 Ordinances, see Section
  1.14.
3.02   ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATION.
A municipal infraction that is a violation of Chapter 455B of the Code of Iowa
or of a standard established by the City in consultation with the Department of
Natural Resources, or both, may be classified as an environmental violation. 
However, the provisions of this section shall not be applicable until the City
has offered to participate in informal negotiations regarding the violation or
to the following specific violations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
   1.   A violation arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment standard or
requirement referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8.
   2.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person not engaged in the industrial
production or manufacturing of grain products.
   3.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person engaged in such industrial production
or manufacturing if such discharge occurs from September 15 to January 15.
3.03   PENALTIES.
A municipal infraction is punishable by the following civil penalties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
   1.   Standard Civil Penalties.
      A.   First offense – not to exceed $750.00
      B.   Each repeat offense – not to exceed $1,000.00
Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a repeat
offense.
   2.   Special Civil Penalties.
      A.   A municipal infraction arising from noncompliance with a
pretreatment standard or requirement, referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8, by an
industrial user is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each
day a violation exists or continues.
      B.   A municipal infraction classified as an environmental violation is
punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each occurrence. 
However, an environmental violation is not subject to such penalty if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
         (1)   The violation results solely from conducting an initial startup,
cleaning, repairing, performing scheduled maintenance, testing, or conducting a
shutdown of either equipment causing the violation or the equipment designed to
reduce or eliminate the violation.
         (2)   The City is notified of the violation within 24 hours from the
time that the violation begins.
         (3)   The violation does not continue in existence for more than eight
hours.
3.04   CIVIL CITATIONS.
Any officer authorized by the City to enforce this Code of Ordinances may issue
a civil citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction.  A copy of the
citation may be served by personal service as provided in Rule of Civil
Procedure 1.305, by certified mail addressed to the defendant at defendant’s
last known mailing address, return receipt requested, or by publication in the
manner as provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.310 and subject to the
conditions of Rule of Civil Procedure 1.311.  A copy of the citation shall be
retained by the issuing officer, and the original citation shall be sent to the
Clerk of the District Court.  The citation shall serve as notification that a
civil offense has been committed and shall contain the following information:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[4])
   1.   The name and address of the defendant.
   2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation.
   3.   The location and time of the infraction.
   4.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative relief
sought, or both.
   5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid.
   6.   The time and place of court appearance.
   7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.
   8.   The legal description of the affected real property, if applicable.
If the citation affects real property and charges a violation relating to the
condition of the property, including a building code violation, a local housing
regulation violation, a housing code violation, or a public health or safety
violation, after filing the citation with the Clerk of the District Court, the
City shall also file the citation in the office of the County Treasurer.
3.05   ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.
Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not preclude the
City from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action.  Such
alternative relief may include, but is not limited to, an order for abatement
or injunctive relief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[8])
3.06   ALTERNATIVE PENALTIES.
This chapter does not preclude a peace officer from issuing a criminal citation
for a violation of this Code of Ordinances or regulation if criminal penalties
are also provided for the violation.  Nor does it preclude or limit the
authority of the City to enforce the provisions of this Code of Ordinances by
criminal sanctions or other lawful means.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[11])
CHAPTER 5
OPERATING PROCEDURES
 
5.01  Oaths                5.07  Conflict of Interest
5.02  Bonds                5.08  Resignations
5.03  Powers and Duties    5.09  Removal of Appointed Officers and Employees
5.04  Books and Records    5.10  Vacancies
5.05  Transfer to Successor5.11  Gifts
5.06  Meetings
 
5.01   OATHS.
The oath of office shall be required and administered in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Qualify for Office.  Each elected or appointed officer shall qualify
for office by taking the prescribed oath and by giving, when required, a bond. 
The oath shall be taken, and bond provided, after such officer is certified as
elected but not later than noon of the first day that is not a Sunday or a
legal holiday in January of the first year of the term for which the officer
was elected.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.1)
   2.   Prescribed Oath.  The prescribed oath is:  “I, (name), do solemnly
swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the
Constitution of the State of Iowa, and that I will faithfully and impartially,
to the best of my ability, discharge all duties of the office of (name of
office) in Kingsley as now or hereafter required by law.”
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.10)
   3.   Officers Empowered to Administer Oaths.  The following are empowered to
administer oaths and to take affirmations in any matter pertaining to the
business of their respective offices:
      A.   Mayor
      B.   City Clerk
      C.   Members of all boards, commissions, or bodies created by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63A.2)
5.02   BONDS.
Surety bonds are provided in accordance with the following:
   1.   Required.  The Council shall provide by resolution for a surety bond or
blanket position bond running to the City and covering the Mayor, Clerk,
Treasurer, and such other officers and employees as may be necessary and
advisable.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.13)
   2.   Bonds Approved.  Bonds shall be approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.19)
   3.   Bonds Filed.  All bonds, after approval and proper record, shall be
filed with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.23[6])
   4.   Record.  The Clerk shall keep a book, to be known as the “Record of
Official Bonds” in which shall be recorded the official bonds of all City
officers, elective or appointive.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.24[3])
5.03   POWERS AND DUTIES.
Each municipal officer shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
prescribed by law and this Code of Ordinances, or as otherwise directed by the
Council unless contrary to State law or City charter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.04   BOOKS AND RECORDS.
All books and records required to be kept by law or ordinance shall be open to
examination by the public upon request, unless some other provisions of law
expressly limit such right or require such records to be kept confidential. 
Access to public records that are combined with data processing software shall
be in accordance with policies and procedures established by the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 22.2 and 22.3A)
5.05   TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR.
Each officer shall transfer to his or her successor in office all books,
papers, records, documents and property in the officer’s custody and
appertaining to that office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.06   MEETINGS.
All meetings of the Council, any board or commission, or any multi-membered
body formally and directly created by any of the foregoing bodies shall be held
in accordance with the following:
   1.   Notice of Meetings.  Reasonable notice, as defined by State law, of the
time, date, and place of each meeting and its tentative agenda shall be given.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4)
   2.   Meetings Open.  All meetings shall be held in open session unless
closed sessions are held as expressly permitted by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   3.   Minutes.  Minutes shall be kept of all meetings showing the date, time
and place, the members present, and the action taken at each meeting.  The
minutes shall show the results of each vote taken and information sufficient to
indicate the vote of each member present.  The vote of each member present
shall be made public at the open session.  The minutes shall be public records
open to public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   4.   Closed Session.  A closed session may be held only by affirmative vote
of either two-thirds of the body or all of the members present at the meeting
and in accordance with Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.5)
   5.   Cameras and Recorders.  The public may use cameras or recording devices
at any open session.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.7)
   6.   Electronic Meetings.  A meeting may be conducted by electronic means
only in circumstances where such a meeting in person is impossible or
impractical and then only in compliance with the provisions of Chapter 21 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8)
5.07   CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
A City officer or employee shall not have an interest, direct or indirect, in
any contract or job of work or material or the profits thereof or services to
be furnished or performed for the City, unless expressly permitted by law.  A
contract entered into in violation of this section is void.  The provisions of
this section do not apply to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5)
   1.   Compensation of Officers.  The payment of lawful compensation of a City
officer or employee holding more than one City office or position, the holding
of which is not incompatible with another public office or is not prohibited by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3a])
   2.   Investment of Funds.  The designation of a bank or trust company as a
depository, paying agent, or for investment of funds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3b])
   3.   City Treasurer.  An employee of a bank or trust company, who serves as
Treasurer of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3c])
   4.   Stock Interests.  Contracts in which a City officer or employee has an
interest solely by reason of employment, or a stock interest of the kind
described in Subsection 8 of this section, or both, if the contracts are made
by competitive bid in writing, publicly invited and opened, or if the
remuneration of employment will not be directly affected as a result of the
contract and the duties of employment do not directly involve the procurement
or preparation of any part of the contract.  The competitive bid qualification
of this subsection does not apply to a contract for professional services not
customarily awarded by competitive bid.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3e])
   5.   Newspaper.  The designation of an official newspaper. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3f])
   6.   Existing Contracts.  A contract in which a City officer or employee has
an interest if the contract was made before the time the officer or employee
was elected or appointed, but the contract may not be renewed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3g])
   7.   Volunteers.  Contracts with volunteer firefighters or civil defense
volunteers.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3h])
   8.   Corporations.  A contract with a corporation in which a City officer or
employee has an interest by reason of stock holdings when less than five
percent of the outstanding stock of the corporation is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the officer or employee or the spouse or immediate
family of such officer or employee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3i])
   9.   Contracts.  Contracts made by the City upon competitive bid in writing,
publicly invited and opened. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3d])
   10.   Cumulative Purchases.  Contracts not otherwise permitted by this
section, for the purchase of goods or services that benefit a City officer or
employee, if the purchases benefiting that officer or employee do not exceed a
cumulative total purchase price of $6,000.00 in a fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3j])
   11.   Franchise Agreements.  Franchise agreements between the City and a
utility and contracts entered into by the City for the provision of essential
City utility services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3k])
   12.   Third Party Contracts.  A contract that is a bond, note or other
obligation of the City and the contract is not acquired directly from the City
but is acquired in a transaction with a third party who may or may not be the
original underwriter, purchaser, or obligee of the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3l])
5.08   RESIGNATIONS.
An elected officer who wishes to resign may do so by submitting a resignation
in writing to the Clerk so that it shall be properly recorded and considered. 
A person who resigns from an elective office is not eligible for appointment to
the same office during the time for which the person was elected if, during
that time, the compensation of the office has been increased.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[9])
5.09   REMOVAL OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
Except as otherwise provided by State or City law, all persons appointed to
City office or employment may be removed by the officer or body making the
appointment, but every such removal shall be by written order.  The order shall
give the reasons, be filed in the office of the Clerk, and a copy shall be sent
by certified mail to the person removed, who, upon request filed with the Clerk
within 30 days after the date of mailing the copy, shall be granted a public
hearing before the Council on all issues connected with the removal.  The
hearing shall be held within 30 days after the date the request is filed,
unless the person removed requests a later date.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.15)
5.10   VACANCIES.
A vacancy in an elective City office during a term of office shall be filled in
accordance with Section 372.13[2] of the Code of Iowa.
5.11   GIFTS.
Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 68B of the Code of Iowa, a public
official, public employee or candidate, or that person’s immediate family
member, shall not, directly or indirectly, accept or receive any gift or series
of gifts from a “restricted donor” as defined in Chapter 68B and a restricted
donor shall not, directly or indirectly, individually or jointly with one or
more other restricted donors, offer or make a gift or a series of gifts to a
public official, public employee, or candidate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 68B.22)
CHAPTER 6
CITY ELECTIONS
 
6.01  Nominating Method to Be Used       6.05  Qualification
6.02  Candidacy                          6.06  Time Held
6.03  Run-Off Election in Lieu of Primary6.07  Candidates Elected
6.04  Run-Off Election Procedure
 
6.01   NOMINATING METHOD TO BE USED.
All candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated under the
provisions of Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.3)
6.02   CANDIDACY.
An eligible elector of the City may become a candidate for an elective City
office by filing with the County Commissioner of Elections a valid petition
requesting that the elector’s name be placed on the ballot for that office, or
by filing a valid petition with the designated City Clerk.  The petition must
be signed by eligible electors equal in number to at least two percent of those
who voted to fill the same office at the last regular City election, but not
less than 10 persons.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.4)
6.03   RUN-OFF ELECTION IN LIEU OF PRIMARY.
A run-off election shall be held in lieu of a primary election for the choosing
of persons for elective offices. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.6)
6.04   RUN-OFF ELECTION PROCEDURE.
A run-off election shall be held only for positions unfilled because of failure
of a sufficient number of candidates to receive a majority vote in the regular
City election.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.9)
6.05   QUALIFICATION.
Candidates who do not receive a majority of the votes cast for an office, but
who receive the highest number of votes cast for that office in the regular
City election, to the extent of twice the number of unfilled positions, are
candidates in the run-off elections.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.9)
6.06   TIME HELD.
Run-off elections shall be held four weeks after the date of the regular City
election and shall be conducted in the same manner as regular City elections,
except that the County Board of Supervisors required to canvass the vote of the
runoff election pursuant to Section 50.24 of the Code of Iowa shall meet to
canvass the vote on the Thursday following the runoff election.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.9)
6.07   CANDIDATES ELECTED.
Candidates in the run-off election who receive the highest number of votes cast
for each office on the ballot are elected to the extent necessary to fill the
positions open.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.9)
CHAPTER 7
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
 
7.01  Purpose        7.05  Operating Budget Preparation
7.02  Finance Officer7.06  Budget Amendments
7.03  Cash Control   7.07  Accounting
7.04  Fund Control   7.08  Financial Reports
 
7.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and provide for rules and
regulations governing the management of the financial affairs of the City.
7.02   FINANCE OFFICER.
The City Clerk is the finance and accounting officer of the City and is
responsible for the administration of the provisions of this chapter.
7.03   CASH CONTROL.
To assure the proper accounting and safe custody of moneys the following shall
apply:
   1.   Deposit of Funds.  All moneys or fees collected for any purpose by any
City officer shall be deposited through the office of the finance officer.  If
any said fees are due to an officer, they shall be paid to the officer by check
drawn by the finance officer and approved by the Council only upon such
officer’s making adequate reports relating thereto as required by law,
ordinance, or Council directive. 
   2.   Deposits and Investments.  All moneys belonging to the City shall be
promptly deposited in depositories selected by the Council in amounts not
exceeding the authorized depository limitation established by the Council or
invested in accordance with the City’s written investment policy and State law,
including joint investments as authorized by Section 384.21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.21, 12B.10, 12C.1)
   3.   Petty Cash Fund.  The finance officer shall be custodian of a petty
cash fund for the payment of small claims for minor purchases, collect-on-
delivery transportation charges, and small fees customarily paid at the time of
rendering a service, for which payments the finance officer shall obtain some
form of receipt or bill acknowledged as paid by the vendor or agent.  At such
time as the petty cash fund is approaching depletion, the finance officer shall
draw a check for replenishment in the amount of the accumulated expenditures
and said check and supporting detail shall be submitted to the Council as a
claim in the usual manner for claims and charged to the proper funds and
accounts.  It shall not be used for salary payments or other personal services
or personal expenses.
7.04   FUND CONTROL.
There shall be established and maintained separate and distinct funds in
accordance with the following: 
   1.   Revenues.  All moneys received by the City shall be credited to the
proper fund as required by law, ordinance, or resolution.
   2.   Expenditures.  No disbursement shall be made from a fund unless such
disbursement is authorized by law, ordinance, or resolution, was properly
budgeted, and supported by a claim approved by the Council. 
   3.   Emergency Fund.  No transfer may be made from any fund to the Emergency
Fund.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388], Sec. 2.5[2])
   4.   Debt Service Fund.  Except where specifically prohibited by State law,
moneys may be transferred from any other City fund to the Debt Service Fund to
meet payments of principal and interest.  Such transfers must be authorized by
the original budget or a budget amendment.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388] Sec. 2.5[3])
   5.   Capital Improvements Reserve Fund.  Except where specifically
prohibited by State law, moneys may be transferred from any City fund to the
Capital Improvements Reserve Fund.  Such transfers must be authorized by the
original budget or a budget amendment.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388] Sec. 2.5[4])
   6.   Utility and Enterprise Funds.  A surplus in a Utility or Enterprise
Fund may be transferred to any other City fund, except the Emergency Fund, by
resolution of the Council.  A surplus may exist only after all required
transfers have been made to any restricted accounts in accordance with the
terms and provisions of any revenue bonds or loan agreements relating to the
Utility or Enterprise Fund.  A surplus is defined as the cash balance in the
operating account or the unrestricted net position calculated in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, after adding back the net
pension and other postemployment benefits, liabilities, and the related
deferred inflows of resources and deducting the related deferred outflows of
resources, in excess of:
      A.   The amount of the expenses of disbursements for operating and
maintaining the utility or enterprise for the preceding three months; and
      B.   The amount necessary to make all required transfers to restricted
accounts for the succeeding three months.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388], Sec. 2.5[5])
   7.   Balancing of Funds.  Fund accounts shall be reconciled at the close of
each month and a report thereof submitted to the Council.
7.05   OPERATING BUDGET PREPARATION.
The annual operating budget of the City shall be prepared in accordance with
the following:
   1.   Proposal Prepared.  The finance officer is responsible for preparation
of the annual budget detail, for review by the Mayor and Council and adoption
by the Council in accordance with directives of the Mayor and Council.
   2.   Boards and Commissions.  All boards, commissions, and other
administrative agencies of the City that are authorized to prepare and
administer budgets must submit their budget proposals to the finance officer
for inclusion in the proposed City budget at such time and in such form as
required by the Council.
   3.   Submission to Council.  The finance officer shall submit the completed
budget proposal to the Council each year at such time as directed by the
Council.
   4.   Resolution Establishing Maximum Property Tax Dollars.  The Council
shall adopt a resolution establishing the total maximum property tax dollars
that may be certified for levy that includes taxes for City government purposes
under Code of Iowa Section 384.1, for the City’s trust and agency fund under
Code of Iowa Section 384.6, Subsection 1, for the City’s emergency fund under
Code of Iowa Section 384.8, and for the levies authorized under Code of Iowa
Section 384.12, Subsections 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, and 21, but excluding
additions approved at election under Code of Iowa Section 384.12, Subsection
19.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.15A)
      A.   The Council shall set a time and place for a public hearing on the
resolution before the date for adoption of the resolution and shall publish
notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days prior to the
hearing in a newspaper published at least once weekly and having general
circulation in the City.
      B.   If the City has an internet site, the notice shall also be posted
and clearly identified on the City’s internet site for public viewing beginning
on the date of the newspaper publication or public posting, as applicable. 
Additionally, if the City maintains a social media account on one or more
social media applications, the public hearing notice or an electronic link to
the public hearing notice shall be posted on each such account on the same day
as the publication of the notice.  All of the following shall be included in
the notice:
         (1)   The sum of the current fiscal year’s actual property taxes
certified for levy under the levies specified in this subsection and the
current fiscal year’s combined property tax levy rate for such amount that is
applicable to taxable property in the City other than property used and
assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
         (2)   The effective tax rate calculated using the sum of the current
fiscal year’s actual property taxes certified for levy under the levies
specified in this subsection, applicable to taxable property in the City other
than property used and assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
         (3)   The sum of the proposed maximum property tax dollars that may be
certified for levy for the budget year under the levies specified in this
subsection and the proposed combined property tax levy rate for such amount
applicable to taxable property in the City other than property used and
assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
         (4)   If the proposed maximum property tax dollars specified under
Subparagraph (3) exceed the current fiscal year’s actual property tax dollars
certified for levy specified in Subparagraph (1), a statement of the major
reasons for the increase.
Proof of publication shall be filed with and preserved by the County Auditor. 
The Department of Management shall prescribe the form for the public hearing
notice for cities and the form for the resolution to be adopted by the Council
under Paragraph C of this subsection.
      C.   At the public hearing, the Council shall receive oral or written
objections from any resident or property owner of the City.  After all
objections have been received and considered, the Council may decrease, but not
increase, the proposed maximum property tax dollar amount for inclusion in the
resolution and shall adopt the resolution and file the resolution with the
County Auditor as required under Code of Iowa Section 384.16, Subsection 3.
      D.   If the sum of the maximum property tax dollars for the budget year
specified in the resolution under the levies specified in this subsection
exceeds 102 percent of the sum of the current fiscal year’s actual property
taxes certified for levy under the levies specified in this subsection, the
Council shall be required to adopt the resolution by a two-thirds majority of
the membership of the Council.
      E.   If the City has an internet site, in addition to filing the
resolution with the Auditor under Code of Iowa Section 384.16, Subsection 3,
the adopted resolution shall be posted and clearly identified on the City’s
internet site for public viewing within 10 days of approval by the Council. 
The posted resolution for a budget year shall continue to be accessible for
public viewing on the internet site along with resolutions posted for all
subsequent budget years.
   5.   Council Review.  The Council shall review the proposed budget and may
make any adjustments it deems appropriate in the budget before accepting such
proposal for publication, hearing, and final adoption.
   6.   Notice of Hearing.  Following, and not until adoption of the resolution
required under Subsection 4 of this section, the Council shall set a time and
place for public hearing on the budget to be held before March 31 and shall
publish notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days before the
hearing.  A summary of the proposed budget and a description of the procedure
for protesting the Citybudget under Section 384.19 of the Code of Iowa, in the
form prescribed by theDirector of the Department of Management, shall be
included in the notice.  Proof of publication of the notice under
thissubsection and a copy of the resolution adopted under Subsection 4 of this
section must be filed with the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[3])
   7.   Copies of Budget on File.  Not less than 20 days before the date that
the budget must be certified to the County Auditor and not less than 10 days
before the public hearing, the Clerk shall make available a sufficient number
of copies of the detailed budget to meet the requests of taxpayers and
organizations, and have them available for distribution at the offices of the
Mayor and Clerk and at the City library.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[2])
   8.   Adoption and Certification.  After the hearing, the Council shall
adopt, by resolution, a budget for at least the next fiscal year and the Clerk
shall certify the necessary tax levy for the next fiscal year to the County
Auditor and the County Board of Supervisors.  The tax levy certified may be
less than, but not more than, the amount estimated in the proposed budget
submitted at the final hearing or the applicable amount specified in the
resolution adopted under Subsection 4 of this section.  Two copies each of the
detailed budget as adopted and of the tax certificate must be transmitted to
the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[5])
7.06   BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
A City budget finally adopted for the following fiscal year becomes effective
July 1 and constitutes the City appropriation for each program and purpose
specified therein until amended as provided by this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.18)
   1.   Program Increase.  Any increase in the amount appropriated to a program
must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as the
original budget.
(IAC, 545-2.2[384, 388])
   2.   Program Transfer.  Any transfer of appropriation from one program to
another must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as
the original budget. 
(IAC, 545-2.3[384, 388])
   3.   Activity Transfer.  Any transfer of appropriation from one activity to
another activity within a program must be approved by resolution of the
Council. 
(IAC, 545-2.4[384, 388])
   4.   Administrative Transfers.  The finance officer shall have the authority
to adjust, by transfer or otherwise, the appropriations allocated within a
specific activity without prior Council approval. 
(IAC, 545-2.4[384, 388])
7.07   ACCOUNTING.
The accounting records of the City shall consist of not less than the
following:
   1.   Books of Original Entry.  There shall be established and maintained
books of original entry to provide a chronological record of cash received and
disbursed. 
   2.   General Ledger.  There shall be established and maintained a general
ledger controlling all cash transactions, budgetary accounts and for recording
unappropriated surpluses.   
   3.   Checks.  Checks shall be prenumbered and signed by the Clerk, Utility
Billing Clerk, or Mayor, following Council approval, except as provided by
Subsection 5 hereof. 
   4.   Budget Accounts.  There shall be established such individual accounts
to record receipts by source and expenditures by program and activity as will
provide adequate information and control for budgeting purposes as planned and
approved by the Council.  Each individual account shall be maintained within
its proper fund and so kept that receipts can be immediately and directly
compared with revenue estimates and expenditures can be related to the
authorizing appropriation.  No expenditure shall be posted except to the
appropriation for the function and purpose for which the expense was incurred.
   5.   Immediate Payment Authorized.  The Council may by resolution authorize
the Clerk to issue checks for immediate payment of amounts due, which if not
paid promptly would result in loss of discount, penalty for late payment or
additional interest cost.  Any such payments made shall be reported to the
Council for review and approval with and in the same manner as other claims at
the next meeting following such payment.  The resolution authorizing immediate
payment shall specify the type of payment so authorized and may include (but is
not limited to) payment of utility bills, contractual obligations, payroll, and
bond principal and interest.
   6.   Utilities.  The finance officer shall perform and be responsible for
accounting functions of the municipally owned utilities.
7.08   FINANCIAL REPORTS.
The finance officer shall prepare and file the following financial reports:
   1.   Monthly Reports.  There shall be submitted to the Council each month a
report showing the activity and status of each fund, program, sub-program, and
activity for the preceding month.
   2.   Annual Report.  Not later than December 1 of each year there shall be
published an annual report containing a summary for the preceding fiscal year
of all collections and receipts, all accounts due the City, and all
expenditures, the current public debt of the City, and the legal debt limit of
the City for the current fiscal year.  A copy of the annual report must be
filed with the Auditor of State not later than December 1 of each year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.22)
CHAPTER 8
URBAN RENEWAL
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED            NAME OF AREA
133           September 17, 1998 Southridge 1st Addition and Gross 1st Addition
161           October 6, 2003    Hillview East Urban Renewal Project Area
162           October 6, 2003    Hillview West Urban Renewal Project Area
226           January 4, 2016    Kingsley Urban Renewal Project Area
231           May 23, 2016       Southeast View Urban Renewal Area
 
CHAPTER 15
MAYOR
 
15.01  Term of Office   15.04  Compensation
15.02  Powers and Duties15.05  Voting
15.03  Appointments
 
15.01   TERM OF OFFICE.
The Mayor is elected for a term of two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
15.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Mayor are as follows:
   1.   Chief Executive Officer.  Act as the chief executive officer of the
City and presiding officer of the Council, supervise all departments of the
City, give direction to department heads concerning the functions of the
departments, and have the power to examine all functions of the municipal
departments, their records and to call for special reports from department
heads at any time. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
   2.   Proclamation of Emergency.  Have authority to take command of the
police and govern the City by proclamation, upon making a determination that a
time of emergency or public danger exists.  Within the City limits, the Mayor
has all the powers conferred upon the Sheriff to suppress disorders.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[2])
   3.   Special Meetings.  Call special meetings of the Council when the Mayor
deems such meetings necessary to the interests of the City.   
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
   4.   Mayor’s Veto.  Sign, veto, or take no action on an ordinance,
amendment, or resolution passed by the Council.  The Mayor may veto an
ordinance, amendment, or resolution within 14 days after passage.  The Mayor
shall explain the reasons for the veto in a written message to the Council at
the time of the veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.5 & 380.6[2])
   5.   Reports to Council.  Make such oral or written reports to the Council
as required.  These reports shall concern municipal affairs generally, the
municipal departments, and recommendations suitable for Council action.
   6.   Negotiations.  Represent the City in all negotiations properly entered
into in accordance with law or ordinance.  The Mayor shall not represent the
City where this duty is specifically delegated to another officer by law,
ordinance, or Council direction.
   7.   Contracts.  Whenever authorized by the Council, sign contracts on
behalf of the City.
   8.   Professional Services.  Upon order of the Council, secure for the City
such specialized and professional services not already available to the City. 
In executing the order of the Council, the Mayor shall act in accordance with
this Code of Ordinances and the laws of the State. 
   9.   Licenses and Permits.  Sign all licenses and permits that have been
granted by the Council, except those designated by law or ordinance to be
issued by another municipal officer.
   10.   Nuisances.  Issue written order for removal, at public expense, any
nuisance for which no person can be found responsible and liable.
   11.   Absentee Officer.  Make appropriate provision that duties of any
absentee officer be carried on during such absence.
15.03   APPOINTMENTS.
The Mayor shall appoint the following officials:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
   1.   Mayor Pro Tem
   2.   Police Chief, with Council approval
   3.   Library Board of Trustees, with Council approval
15.04   COMPENSATION.
The salary of the Mayor is $5,000.00 per year, plus $45.00 for each regular and
special meeting, payable annually.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
15.05   VOTING.
The Mayor is not a member of the Council and shall not vote as a member of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4) 
CHAPTER 16
MAYOR PRO TEM
 
16.01  Vice President of Council16.03  Voting Rights
16.02  Powers and Duties        16.04  Compensation
 
16.01   VICE PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
The Mayor shall appoint a member of the Council as Mayor Pro Tem, who shall
serve as vice president of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
Except for the limitations otherwise provided herein, the Mayor Pro Tem shall
perform the duties of the Mayor in cases of absence or inability of the Mayor
to perform such duties.  In the exercise of the duties of the office the Mayor
Pro Tem shall not have power to appoint, employ, or discharge from employment
officers or employees that the Mayor has the power to appoint, employ, or
discharge without the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.03   VOTING RIGHTS.
The Mayor Pro Tem shall have the right to vote as a member of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.04   COMPENSATION.
If the Mayor Pro Tem performs the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor’s
absence or disability for a continuous period of 15 days or more, the Mayor Pro
Tem may be paid for that period the compensation as determined by the Council,
based upon the Mayor Pro Tem’s performance of the Mayor’s duties and upon the
compensation of the Mayor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 17
CITY COUNCIL
 
17.01  Number and Term of Council17.04  Council Meetings
17.02  Powers and Duties         17.05  Appointments
17.03  Exercise of Power         17.06  Compensation
 
17.01   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of five Council members elected at large for  terms of
four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4 and 376.2)
17.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Council include, but are not limited to the
following:
   1.   General.  All powers of the City are vested in the Council except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
   2.   Wards.  By ordinance, the Council may divide the City into wards based
upon population, change the boundaries of wards, eliminate wards, or create new
wards. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[7])
   3.   Fiscal Authority.  The Council shall apportion and appropriate all
funds, and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls and claims, and order
payment thereof.  It shall make all assessments for the cost of street
improvements, sidewalks, sewers and other work, improvement, or repairs that
may be specially assessed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1], 384.16 and 384.38[1])
   4.   Public Improvements.  The Council shall make all orders for the
construction of any improvements, bridges, or buildings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
   5.   Contracts.  The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts.  No contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the City unless
approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 26.10)
6.   Employees.  The Council shall authorize, by resolution, the number,
duties, term of office and compensation of employees or officers not otherwise
provided for by State law or the Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   7.   Setting Compensation for Elected Officers.  By ordinance, the Council
shall prescribe the compensation of the Mayor, Council members, and other
elected City officers, but a change in the compensation of the Mayor does not
become effective during the term in which the change is adopted, and the
Council shall not adopt such an ordinance changing the compensation of any
elected officer during the months of November and December in the year of a
regular City election.  A change in the compensation of Council members becomes
effective for all Council members at the beginning of the term of the Council
members elected at the election next following the change in compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
17.03   EXERCISE OF POWER.
The Council shall exercise a power only by the passage of a motion, a
resolution, an amendment, or an ordinance in the following manner:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[1])
   1.   Action by Council.  Passage of an ordinance, amendment, or resolution
requires a majority vote of all of the members of the Council.  Passage of a
motion requires a majority vote of a quorum of the Council.  A resolution must
be passed to spend public funds in excess of $100,000.00 on a public
improvement project, or to accept public improvements and facilities upon their
completion.  Each Council member’s vote on a measure must be recorded.  A
measure that fails to receive sufficient votes for passage shall be considered
defeated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.4)
   2.   Overriding Mayor’s Veto.  Within 30 days after the Mayor’s veto, the
Council may pass the measure again by a vote of not less than two-thirds of all
of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
   3.   Measures Become Effective.  Measures passed by the Council become
effective in one of the following ways:
      A.   An ordinance or amendment signed by the Mayor becomes effective when
the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a subsequent
effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.   
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1a])
      B.   A resolution signed by the Mayor becomes effective immediately upon
signing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1b])
      C.   A motion becomes effective immediately upon passage of the motion by
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1c])
      D.   If the Mayor vetoes an ordinance, amendment or resolution and the
Council repasses the measure after the Mayor’s veto, a resolution becomes
effective immediately upon repassage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes a
law when the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a
subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
      E.   If the Mayor takes no action on an ordinance, amendment or
resolution, a resolution becomes effective 14 days after the date of passage,
and an ordinance or amendment becomes law when the ordinance or a summary of
the ordinance is published, but not sooner than 14 days after the date of
passage, unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or
amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[3])
“All of the members of the Council” refers to all of the seats of the Council
including a vacant seat and a seat where the member is absent, but does not
include a seat where the Council member declines to vote by reason of a
conflict of interest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.1[a])
17.04   COUNCIL MEETINGS.
Procedures for giving notice of meetings of the Council and other provisions
regarding the conduct of Council meetings are contained in Section
5.06 of this Code of Ordinances.  Additional particulars relating to Council
meetings are the following:
   1.   Regular Meetings.  The regular meetings of the Council are on the first
Monday of each month at 7:00 p.m., at Council Chambers at City Hall.  If such
day falls on a legal holiday, the meeting is held at a mutually agreeable time,
as determined by the Council. 
   2.   Special Meetings.  Special meetings shall be held upon call of the
Mayor or upon the request of a majority of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
   3.   Quorum.  A majority of all Council members is a quorum. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[1])
   4.   Rules of Procedure.  The Council shall determine its own rules and
maintain records of its proceedings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
   5.   Compelling Attendance.  Any three members of the Council can compel the
attendance of the absent members at any regular, adjourned, or duly called
meeting, by serving a written notice upon the absent members to attend at
once. 
17.05   APPOINTMENTS.
The Council shall appoint the following officials and prescribe their powers,
duties, compensation, and term of office:
   1.   City Clerk
   2.   City Attorney
17.06   COMPENSATION.
The salary of each Council member is $45.00 for each regular and special
meeting of the Council attended, payable annually.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 18
CITY CLERK
 
18.01  Appointment and Compensation18.08  Records
18.02  Powers and Duties: General  18.09  Attendance at Meetings
18.03  Publication of Minutes      18.10  Licenses and Permits
18.04  Recording Measures          18.11  Notification of Appointments
18.05  Other Publications          18.12  Elections
18.06  Authentication              18.13  City Seal
18.07  Certification
 
18.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
At its first meeting in January following the regular City election, the
Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Clerk to serve for a term of two
years.  The Clerk shall receive such compensation as established by resolution
of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3])
18.02   POWERS AND DUTIES:  GENERAL.
The Clerk or, in the Clerk’s absence or inability to act, the Deputy Clerk has
the powers and duties as provided in this chapter, this Code of Ordinances, and
the law.
18.03   PUBLICATION OF MINUTES.
Within 15 days following a regular or special meeting, the Clerk shall cause
the minutes of the proceedings thereof to be published.  Such publication shall
include a list of all claims allowed and a summary of all receipts and shall
show the gross amount of the claims.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[6])
18.04   RECORDING MEASURES.
The Clerk shall promptly record each measure considered by the Council and
record a statement with the measure, where applicable, indicating whether the
Mayor signed, vetoed or took no action on the measure, and whether the measure
was repassed after the Mayor’s veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[1 and 2])
18.05   OTHER PUBLICATIONS.
The Clerk shall cause to be published all ordinances, enactments, proceedings
and official notices requiring publication as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3)
   1.   Time.  If notice of an election, hearing, or other official action is
required by this Code of Ordinances or law, the notice must be published at
least once, not less than four or more than 20 days before the date of the
election, hearing, or other action, unless otherwise provided by law.
   2.   Manner of Publication.  A publication required by this Code of
Ordinances or law must be in a newspaper published at least once weekly and
having general circulation in the City.
18.06   AUTHENTICATION.
The Clerk shall authenticate all measures except motions with the Clerk’s
signature, certifying the time and manner of publication when required.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[4])
18.07   CERTIFICATION.
The Clerk shall certify all measures establishing any zoning district, building
lines, or fire limits and a plat showing the district, lines, or limits to the
recorder of the County containing the affected parts of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.11)
18.08   RECORDS.
The Clerk shall maintain the specified City records in the following manner:
   1.   Ordinances and Codes.  Maintain copies of all effective City ordinances
and codes for public use.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[5])
   2.   Custody.  Have custody and be responsible for the safekeeping of all
writings or documents in which the City is a party in interest unless otherwise
specifically directed by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   3.   Maintenance.  Maintain all City records and documents, or accurate
reproductions, for at least five years except that ordinances, resolutions,
Council proceedings, records and documents, or accurate reproductions, relating
to the issuance, cancellation, transfer, redemption or replacement of public
bonds or obligations shall be kept for at least 11 years following the final
maturity of the bonds or obligations.  Ordinances, resolutions, Council
proceedings, records and documents, or accurate reproductions, relating to real
property transactions shall be maintained permanently.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3 & 5])
   4.   Provide Copy.  Furnish upon request to any municipal officer a copy of
any record, paper or public document under the Clerk’s control when it may be
necessary to such officer in the discharge of such officer’s duty; furnish a
copy to any citizen when requested upon payment of the fee set by Council
resolution; under the direction of the Mayor or other authorized officer, affix
the seal of the City to those public documents or instruments that by this Code
of Ordinances are required to be attested by the affixing of the seal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4 & 5] and 380.7[5])
   5.   Filing of Communications.  Keep and file all communications and
petitions directed to the Council or to the City generally.  The Clerk shall
endorse thereon the action of the Council taken upon matters considered in such
communications and petitions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.09   ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
The Clerk shall attend all regular and special Council meetings and, at the
direction of the Council, the Clerk shall attend meetings of committees,
boards, and commissions.  The Clerk shall record and preserve a correct record
of the proceedings of such meetings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.10   LICENSES AND PERMITS.
The Clerk shall issue or revoke licenses and permits when authorized by this
Code of Ordinances, and keep a record of licenses and permits issued which
shall show date of issuance, license or permit number, official receipt number,
name of person to whom issued, term of license or permit, and purpose for which
issued.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.11   NOTIFICATION OF APPOINTMENTS.
The Clerk shall inform all persons appointed by the Mayor or Council to offices
in the City government of their positions and the time at which they shall
assume the duties of their offices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.12   ELECTIONS.
The Clerk shall perform the duties relating to elections in accordance with
Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa.
18.13   CITY SEAL.
The City seal is in the custody of the Clerk and shall be attached by the Clerk
to all transcripts, orders, and certificates that it may be necessary or proper
to authenticate.  The City seal is circular in form, in the center of which is
the word “IOWA” and around the margin of which are the words “INCORPORATED CITY
OF KINGSLEY.”
CHAPTER 19
CITY TREASURER
 
19.01  Appointment 19.03  Duties of Treasurer
19.02  Compensation
 
19.01   APPOINTMENT.
The City Clerk is the Treasurer and performs all functions required of the
position of Treasurer.
19.02   COMPENSATION.
The Clerk receives no additional compensation for performing the duties of the
Treasurer.
19.03   DUTIES OF TREASURER.
The duties of the Treasurer are as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Custody of Funds.  Be responsible for the safe custody of all funds of
the City in the manner provided by law and Council direction. 
   2.   Record of Fund.  Keep the record of each fund separate. 
   3.   Record Receipts.  Keep an accurate record of all money or securities
received by the Treasurer on behalf of the City and specify the date, from
whom, and for what purpose received. 
   4.   Record Disbursements.  Keep an accurate account of all disbursements,
money, or property, specifying date, to whom, and from what fund paid. 
   5.   Special Assessments.  Keep a separate account of all money received by
the Treasurer from special assessments. 
   6.   Deposit Funds.  Upon receipt of moneys to be held in the Treasurer’s
custody and belonging to the City, deposit the same in depositories selected by
the Council.
   7.   Reconciliation.  Reconcile depository statements with the Treasurer’s
books and certify monthly to the Council the balance of cash and investments of
each fund and amounts received and disbursed.
   8.   Debt Service.  Keep a register of all bonds outstanding and record all
payments of interest and principal.
   9.   Other Duties.  Perform such other duties as specified by the Council by
resolution or ordinance. 
CHAPTER 20
CITY ATTORNEY
 
20.01  Appointment and Compensation20.06  Provide Legal Opinion
20.02  Attorney for City           20.07  Attendance at Council Meetings
20.03  Power of Attorney           20.08  Prepare Documents
20.04  Ordinance Preparation       20.09  Representation of City Employees
20.05  Review and Comment
 
20.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Attorney to serve for a term
of two years.  The City Attorney shall receive such compensation as established
by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.02   ATTORNEY FOR CITY.
The City Attorney shall act as attorney for the City in all matters affecting
the City’s interest and appear on behalf of the City before any court,
tribunal, commission, or board.  The City Attorney shall prosecute or defend
all actions and proceedings when so requested by the Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.03   POWER OF ATTORNEY.
The City Attorney shall sign the name of the City to all appeal bonds and to
all other bonds or papers of any kind that may be essential to the prosecution
of any cause in court, and when so signed the City shall be bound upon the
same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.04   ORDINANCE PREPARATION.
The City Attorney shall prepare those ordinances that the Council may desire
and direct to be prepared and report to the Council upon all such ordinances
before their final passage by the Council and publication.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.05   REVIEW AND COMMENT.
The City Attorney shall, upon request, make a report to the Council giving an
opinion on all contracts, documents, resolutions, or ordinances submitted to or
coming under the City Attorney’s notice.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.06   PROVIDE LEGAL OPINION.
The City Attorney shall give advice or a written legal opinion on City
contracts and all questions of law relating to City matters submitted by the
Mayor, members of the Council, or municipal boards and department heads.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.07   ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
The City Attorney shall attend meetings of the Council at the request of the
Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.08   PREPARE DOCUMENTS.
The City Attorney shall, upon request, formulate drafts for contracts, forms,
and other writings that may be required for the use of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.09   REPRESENTATION OF CITY EMPLOYEES.
The City Attorney shall not appear on behalf of any City officer or employee
before any court or tribunal for the purely private benefit of said officer or
employee.  The City Attorney shall, however, if directed by the Council, appear
to defend any City officer or employee in any cause of action arising out of or
in the course of the performance of the duties of his or her office or
employment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 670.8)
CHAPTER 21
LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
 
21.01  Public Library                  21.07  Nonresident Use
21.02  Library Trustees                21.08  Expenditures
21.03  Qualifications of Trustees      21.09  Injury to Books or Property
21.04  Organization of the Board       21.10  Theft
21.05  Powers and Duties               21.11  Notice Posted
21.06  Contracting with Other Libraries
 
21.01   PUBLIC LIBRARY.
The public library for the City is known as the Kingsley Public Library.  It is
referred to in this chapter as the Library.
21.02   LIBRARY TRUSTEES.
The Board of Trustees of the Library, hereinafter referred to as the Board,
consists of seven resident members.  All members are to be appointed by the
Mayor with the approval of the Council. 
21.03   QUALIFICATIONS OF TRUSTEES.
All members of the Board shall be bona fide citizens and residents of the
City.  Members shall be over the age of 18 years.
21.04   ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD.
The organization of the Board shall be as follows:
   1.   Term of Office.  All appointments to the Board shall be for six years,
except to fill vacancies.  Each term shall commence on July 1.  Appointments
shall be made every two years of one-third the total number or as near as
possible, to stagger the terms.
   2.   Vacancies.  The position of any Trustee shall be vacated if such member
moves permanently from the City and shall be deemed vacated if such member is
absent from six consecutive regular meetings of the Board, except in the case
of sickness or temporary absence from the City.  Vacancies in the Board shall
be filled in the same manner as an original appointment except that the new
Trustee shall fill out the unexpired term for which the appointment is made. 
   3.   Compensation.  Trustees shall receive no compensation for their
services. 
21.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Board shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   1.   Officers.  To meet and elect from its members a President, a Secretary,
and such other officers as it deems necessary.  The City Treasurer shall serve
as Board Treasurer, but shall not be a member of the Board.
   2.   Physical Plant.  To have charge, control and supervision of the
Library, its appurtenances, fixtures and rooms containing the same.
   3.   Charge of Affairs.  To direct and control all affairs of the Library.
   4.   Hiring of Personnel.  To employ a Librarian, and authorize the
Librarian to employ such assistants and employees as may be necessary for the
proper management of the Library, and fix their compensation; provided,
however, prior to such employment, the compensation of the Librarian,
assistants, and employees shall have been fixed and approved by a majority of
the members of the Board voting in favor thereof.
   5.   Removal of Personnel.  To remove the Librarian, by a two-thirds vote of
the Board, and provide procedures for the removal of the assistants or
employees for misdemeanor, incompetence, or inattention to duty, subject
however, to the provisions of Chapter 35C of the Code of Iowa.
   6.   Purchases.  To select, or authorize the Librarian to select, and make
purchases of books, pamphlets, magazines, periodicals, papers, maps, journals,
other Library materials, furniture, fixtures, stationery, and supplies for the
Library within budgetary limits set by the Board.
   7.   Use by Nonresidents.  To authorize the use of the Library by
nonresidents and to fix charges therefor unless a contract for free service
exists.
   8.   Rules and Regulations.  To make and adopt, amend, modify, or repeal
rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this Code of Ordinances and the
law, for the care, use, government and management of the Library and the
business of the Board, fixing and enforcing penalties for violations.
   9.   Expenditures.  To have exclusive control of the expenditure of all
funds allocated for Library purposes by the Council, and of all moneys
available by gift or otherwise for the erection of Library buildings, and of
all other moneys belonging to the Library including fines and rentals collected
under the rules of the Board.
   10.   Gifts.  To accept gifts of real property, personal property, or mixed
property, and devises and bequests, including trust funds; to take the title to
said property in the name of the Library; to execute deeds and bills of sale
for the conveyance of said property; and to expend the funds received by them
from such gifts, for the improvement of the Library.
   11.   Enforce the Performance of Conditions on Gifts.  To enforce the
performance of conditions on gifts, donations, devises and bequests accepted by
the City by action against the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 661)
   12.   Record of Proceedings.  To keep a record of its proceedings.
   13.   County Historical Association.  To have authority to make agreements
with the local County historical association where such exists, and to set
apart the necessary room and to care for such articles as may come into the
possession of the association.  The Trustees are further authorized to purchase
necessary receptacles and materials for the preservation and protection of such
articles as are in their judgment of a historical and educational nature and
pay for the same out of funds allocated for Library purposes.
21.06   CONTRACTING WITH OTHER LIBRARIES.
The Board has power to contract with other libraries in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Contracting.  The Board may contract with any other boards of trustees
of free public libraries, with any other city, school corporation, private or
semiprivate organization, institution of higher learning, township, or County,
or with the trustees of any County library district for the use of the Library
by their respective residents. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.5 & Ch. 28E)
   2.   Termination.  Such a contract may be terminated at any time by mutual
consent of the contracting parties.  It also may be terminated by a majority
vote of the electors represented by either of the contracting parties.  Such a
termination proposition shall be submitted to the electors by the governing
body of a contracting party on a written petition of not less than five percent
in number of the electors who voted for governor in the territory of the
contracting party at the last general election.  The petition must be presented
to the governing body not less than 40 days before the election.  The
proposition may be submitted at any election provided by law which is held in
the territory of the party seeking to terminate the contract. 
21.07   NONRESIDENT USE.
The Board may authorize the use of the Library by persons not residents of the
City or County in any one or more of the following ways:
   1.   Lending.  By lending the books or other materials of the Library to
nonresidents on the same terms and conditions as to residents of the City, or
County, or upon payment of a special nonresident Library fee. 
   2.   Depository.  By establishing depositories of Library books or other
materials to be loaned to nonresidents. 
   3.   Bookmobiles.  By establishing bookmobiles or a traveling library so
that books or other Library materials may be loaned to nonresidents. 
   4.   Branch Library.  By establishing branch libraries for lending books or
other Library materials to nonresidents. 
21.08   EXPENDITURES.
All money appropriated by the Council for the operation and maintenance of the
Library shall be set aside in an account for the Library.  Expenditures shall
be paid for only on orders of the Board, signed by its President and Secretary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.20 & 392.5)
21.09   INJURY TO BOOKS OR PROPERTY.
It is unlawful for a person willfully, maliciously or wantonly to tear, deface,
mutilate, injure or destroy, in whole or in part, any newspaper, periodical,
book, map, pamphlet, chart, picture or other property belonging to the Library
or reading room.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
21.10   THEFT.
No person shall take possession or control of property of the Library with the
intent to deprive the Library thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
21.11   NOTICE POSTED.
There shall be posted in clear public view within the Library notices informing
the public of the following:
   1.   Failure to Return.  Failure to return Library materials for two months
or more after the date the person agreed to return the Library materials, or
failure to return Library equipment for one month or more after the date the
person agreed to return the Library equipment, is evidence of intent to deprive
the owner, provided a reasonable attempt, including the mailing by restricted
certified mail of notice that such material or equipment is overdue and
criminal actions will be taken, has been made to reclaim the materials or
equipment. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.5)
   2.   Detention and Search.  Persons concealing Library materials may be
detained and searched pursuant to law. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 808.12)
CHAPTER 22
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
 
22.01  Planning and Zoning Commission22.04  Compensation
22.02  Term of Office                22.05  Powers and Duties
22.03  Vacancies
 
22.01   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
The City Planning and Zoning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the
Commission, consists of five members appointed by the Mayor, subject to the
approval of the City Council by a majority vote.  The Commission members shall
be residents of the City and qualified by knowledge or experience to act in
matters pertaining to the development of the City plan and who shall not hold
any elective office in the City government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6 & 392.1)
22.02   TERM OF OFFICE.
The term of office of the members of the Commission shall be four years.  The
terms of not more than one-third of the members will expire in any one year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
22.03   VACANCIES.
If any vacancy exists on the Commission, caused by resignation or otherwise, a
successor for the residue of the term shall be appointed in the same manner as
the original appointee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
22.04   COMPENSATION.
All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, except their
actual expenses, which shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
22.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Commission shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   1.   Selection of Officers.  The Commission shall choose annually at its
first regular meeting one of its members to act as Chairperson and another as
Vice Chairperson, who shall perform all the duties of the Chairperson during
the Chairperson’s absence or disability.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   2.   Adopt Rules and Regulations.  The Commission shall adopt such rules and
regulations governing its organization and procedure as it may deem necessary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   3.   Zoning.  The Commission shall have and exercise all the powers and
duties and privileges in establishing the City zoning regulations and other
related matters and may from time to time recommend to the Council amendments,
supplements, changes or modifications, all as provided by Chapter 414 of the
Code of Iowa. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6)
   4.   Recommendations on Improvements. The design and proposed location of
public improvements shall be submitted to the Commission for its
recommendations prior to any actions being taken by the City for the
construction or placement of such improvements.  Such requirements and
recommendations shall not act as a stay upon action for any such improvement if
the Commission, after 30 days’ written notice requesting such recommendations,
has failed to file the same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   5.   Review and Comment on Plats.  All plans, plats, or re-plats of
subdivisions or re-subdivisions of land in the City or adjacent thereto, laid
out in lots or plats with the streets, alleys, or other portions of the same
intended to be dedicated to the public in the City, shall first be submitted to
the Commission and its recommendations obtained before approval by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   6.   Fiscal Responsibilities.  The Commission shall have full, complete, and
exclusive authority to expend, for and on behalf of the City, all sums of money
appropriated to it and to use and expend all gifts, donations, or payments that
are received by the City for City planning and zoning purposes. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   7.   Limitation on Entering Contracts.  The Commission shall have no power
to contract debts beyond the amount of its original or amended appropriation as
approved by the Council for the present year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
CHAPTER 30
POLICE DEPARTMENT
 
30.01  Department Established      30.07  Powers and Duties of Police Chief
30.02  Organization                30.08  Departmental Rules
30.03  Peace Officer Qualifications30.09  Summoning Aid
30.04  Required Training           30.10  Taking Weapons
30.05  Compensation                30.11  Contract Law Enforcement
30.06  Peace Officers Appointed
 
30.01   DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
The Police Department of the City is established to provide for the
preservation of peace and enforcement of law and ordinances within the
corporate limits of the City.
30.02   ORGANIZATION.
The department consists of the Police Chief and such other law enforcement
officers and personnel, whether full or part time, as may be authorized by the
Council.
30.03   PEACE OFFICER QUALIFICATIONS.
In no case shall any person be selected or appointed as a law enforcement
officer unless such person meets the minimum qualification standards
established by the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11)
30.04   REQUIRED TRAINING.
All peace officers shall have received the minimum training required by law at
an approved law enforcement training school within one year of employment. 
Peace officers shall also meet the minimum in-service training as required by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11[2])
(IAC, 501-3 and 501-8)
30.05   COMPENSATION.
Members of the department are designated by rank and receive such compensation
as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
30.06   PEACE OFFICERS APPOINTED.
The Mayor shall appoint and dismiss the Police Chief subject to the consent of
a majority of the Council.  The Police Chief shall select the other members of
the department.   
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
30.07   POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE CHIEF.
The Police Chief has the following powers and duties subject to the approval of
the Council. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   General.  Perform all duties required of the Police Chief by law or
ordinance.
   2.   Enforce Laws.  Enforce all laws, ordinances, and regulations and bring
all persons committing any offense before the proper court.
   3.   Writs.  Execute and return all writs and other processes directed to
the Police Chief.
   4.   Accident Reports.  Report all motor vehicle accidents investigated to
the State Department of Transportation. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.266)
   5.   Prisoners.  Be responsible for the custody of prisoners, including
conveyance to detention facilities as may be required.
   6.   Assist Officials.  When requested, provide aid to other City officers,
boards, and commissions in the execution of their official duties.
   7.   Investigations.  Provide for such investigation as may be necessary for
the prosecution of any person alleged to have violated any law or ordinance.
   8.   Record of Arrests.  Keep a record of all arrests made in the City by
showing whether said arrests were made under provisions of State law or City
ordinance, the offense charged, who made the arrest and the disposition of the
charge.
   9.   Reports.  Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report
as well as such other reports as may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
   10.   Command.  Be in command of all officers appointed for police work and
be responsible for the care, maintenance, and use of all vehicles, equipment,
and materials of the department.
30.08   DEPARTMENTAL RULES.
The Police Chief shall establish such rules, not in conflict with the Code of
Ordinances, and subject to the approval of the Council, as may be necessary for
the operation of the department.
30.09   SUMMONING AID.
Any peace officer making a legal arrest may orally summon as many persons as
the officer reasonably finds necessary to aid the officer in making the arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.17)
30.10   TAKING WEAPONS.
Any person who makes an arrest may take from the person arrested all items that
are capable of causing bodily harm which the arrested person may have within
such person’s control, to be disposed of according to law. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.18)
30.11   CONTRACT LAW ENFORCEMENT.
In lieu of the appointment of a Police Chief by the Mayor as provided by
Section
30.06, the Council may contract with the County Sheriff or any other qualified
lawful entity to provide law enforcement services within the City and in such
event the Sheriff or such other entity shall have and exercise the powers and
duties of the Police Chief as provided herein. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 28E.30)
CHAPTER 31
RESERVE OFFICERS PROGRAM
 
31.01  Reserve Officers Program31.02  Number of Reserves
 
31.01   RESERVE OFFICERS PROGRAM.
The City has established a police reserve officers program.
31.02   NUMBER OF RESERVES.
The number of reserve officers shall not exceed 10 officers.
CHAPTER 35
FIRE DEPARTMENT
35.01  Establishment and Purpose35.09  Accidental Injury Insurance
35.02  Organization             35.10  Liability Insurance
35.03  Training                 35.11  Calls Outside Fire District
35.04  Compensation             35.12  Mutual Aid
35.05  Election of Officers     35.13  Authority to Cite Violations
35.06  Duties of Fire Chief     35.14  Board of Directors
35.07  Obedience to Fire Chief  35.15  Duties of Board of Directors
35.08  Constitution             35.16  Fire Department Account
 
35.01   ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
A volunteer fire department is hereby established to prevent and extinguish
fires and to protect lives and property against fires, to promote fire
prevention and fire safety, and to answer all emergency calls for which there
is no other established agency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.16)
35.02   ORGANIZATION.
The department consists of the Fire Chief and such other officers and personnel
as may be authorized by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
35.03   TRAINING.
All members of the department shall meet the minimum training standards
established by the State Fire Marshal and attend and actively participate in
regular or special training drills or programs as directed by the Fire Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100B.2[4])
35.04   COMPENSATION.
Members of the department shall be designated by rank and receive such
compensation as shall be determined by ordinance of the Council.  The Board of
Directors and their approved compensation are outlined in Section
35.14 of this Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
35.05   ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
The department shall elect a Fire Chief and such other officers as its
constitution and bylaws may provide.  In case of absence of the Fire Chief, the
officer next in rank shall be in charge and have and exercise all the powers of
Fire Chief.
35.06   DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
The Fire Chief shall perform all duties required of the Fire Chief by law or
ordinance, including (but not limited to) the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Enforce Laws.  Enforce ordinances and laws regulating fire prevention
and the investigation of the cause, origin, and circumstances of fires.
   2.   Technical Assistance.  Upon request, give advice concerning private
fire alarm systems, fire extinguishing equipment, fire escapes and exits, and
development of fire emergency plans.
   3.   Authority at Fires.  When in charge of a fire scene, direct an
operation as necessary to extinguish or control a fire, perform a rescue
operation, investigate the existence of a suspected or reported fire, gas leak,
or other hazardous condition, or take any other action deemed necessary in the
reasonable performance of the department’s duties.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
   4.   Control of Scenes.  Prohibit an individual, vehicle, or vessel from
approaching a fire scene and remove from the scene any object, vehicle, vessel,
or individual that may impede or interfere with the operation of the Fire
Department.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
   5.   Authority to Barricade.  When in charge of a fire scene, place or erect
ropes, guards, barricades, or other obstructions across a street, alley, right-
of-way, or private property near the location of the fire or emergency so as to
prevent accidents or interference with the firefighting efforts of the Fire
Department, to control the scene until any required investigation is complete,
or to preserve evidence related to the fire or other emergency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.3)
   6.   Command.  Be charged with the duty of maintaining the efficiency,
discipline, and control of the Fire Department.  The members of the Fire
Department shall, at all times, be subject to the direction of the Fire Chief.
   7.   Property.  Exercise and have full control over the disposition of all
fire apparatus, tools, equipment, and other property used by or belonging to
the Fire Department.
   8.   Notification.  Whenever death, serious bodily injury, or property
damage in excess of $200,000.00 has occurred as a result of a fire, or if arson
is suspected, notify the State Fire Marshal’s Division immediately.  For all
other fires causing an estimated damage of $50.00 or more or emergency
responses by the Fire Department, file a report with the Fire Marshal’s
Division within 10 days following the end of the month.  The report shall
indicate all fire incidents occurring and state the name of the owners and
occupants of the property at the time of the fire, the value of the property,
the estimated total loss to the property, origin of the fire as determined by
investigation, and other facts, statistics, and circumstances concerning the
fire incidents. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.2 & 100.3)
   9.   Right of Entry.  Have the right, during reasonable hours, to enter any
building or premises within the Fire Chief’s jurisdiction for the purpose of
making such investigation or inspection that under law or ordinance may be
necessary to be made and that is reasonably necessary to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.12)
   10.   Recommendation.  Make such recommendations to owners, occupants,
caretakers, or managers of buildings necessary to eliminate fire hazards. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.13)
   11.   Assist State Fire Marshal.  At the request of the State Fire Marshal,
and as provided by law, aid said marshal in the performance of duties by
investigating, preventing and reporting data pertaining to fires.
   12.   Records.  Cause to be kept records of the Fire Department personnel,
firefighting equipment, depreciation of all equipment and apparatus, the number
of responses to alarms, their cause, and location, and an analysis of losses by
value, type and location of buildings.
   13.   Reports.  Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report
of the status and activities of the department as well as such other reports as
may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
35.07   OBEDIENCE TO FIRE CHIEF.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of the Fire Chief.
35.08   CONSTITUTION.
The department shall adopt a constitution and bylaws as they deem calculated to
accomplish the object contemplated.
35.09   ACCIDENTAL INJURY INSURANCE.
The Council shall contract to insure the City against liability for worker’s
compensation and against statutory liability for the costs of hospitalization,
nursing, and medical attention for volunteer firefighters injured in the
performance of their duties as firefighters whether within or outside the
corporate limits of the City.  All volunteer firefighters shall be covered by
the contract. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 85.2, 85.61 and Sec. 410.18)
35.10   LIABILITY INSURANCE.
The Council shall contract to insure against liability of the City or members
of the department for injuries, death or property damage arising out of and
resulting from the performance of departmental duties within or outside the
corporate limits of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 670.2 & 517A.1)
35.11   CALLS OUTSIDE FIRE DISTRICT.
The department shall answer calls to fires and other emergencies outside the
Fire District if the Fire Chief determines that such emergency exists and that
such action will not endanger persons and property within the Fire District.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 & 3])
35.12   MUTUAL AID.
Subject to approval by resolution of the Council, the department may enter into
mutual aid agreements with other legally constituted fire departments.  Copies
of any such agreements shall be filed with the Clerk. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 & 3])
35.13   AUTHORITY TO CITE VIOLATIONS.
Fire officials acting under the authority of Chapter 100 of the Code of Iowa
may issue citations in accordance to Chapter 805 of the Code of Iowa, for
violations of State and/or local fire safety regulations. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.41)
35.14   BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
The Board of Directors of the Kingsley Volunteer Fire Department shall consist
of the Fire Chief, Assistant Chief, secretary, and treasurer and shall be
elected and serve their term of office as set forth in the Fire Department’s
bylaws.  The Fire Chief shall receive $500.00 annually and the Assistant Fire
Chief $300.00 annually as compensation for their services.
35.15   DUTIES OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 
The Board of Directors shall have and
   1.   To meet and elect from it’s members a Fire Chief, assistant chief,
treasurer, secretary, two training officers, two safety officers and three
finance committee members.
   2.   To direct and control all the affairs of the Kingsley Volunteer Fire
Department.
   3.   To make and adopt, amend, modify, or repeal bylaws, rules, and
regulations, not inconsistent with ordinances and the law, for the care, use,
government, and management of the Fire Department and the business of the
board.
   4.   To have exclusive control of the expenditure of all funds allocated for
Fire Department purposes by the City Council, and of all moneys available by
gift or otherwise and of all other moneys belonging to the Fire Department.
   5.   To accept gifts of real property, personal property, or mixed property,
and devises and bequests, including trust funds; to take the title of said
property in the name of the Fire Department; and to expend the funds received
by them.
   6.   To keep record of its proceedings.
   7.   To enforce the performance of conditions on gifts, donations, devises,
and bequests accepted by the City by action against the City Council.
   8.   To have authority to purchase necessary equipment and supplies for the
fire department.
   9.   To contract with any other fire department, city, school, township, or
county as they deem necessary.
35.16   FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCOUNT.
All money received from the townships or any other entity will be appropriated
by the City Council for the operation and maintenance of the Fire Department. 
These funds shall be set aside in an account for the Fire Department and these
funds cannot be used for any other purpose.  Expenditures shall be paid after
approval by the Board of Directors.  The warrant writing officer is the City
Clerk.
CHAPTER 36
VOLUNTEER AMBULANCE DEPARTMENT
 
36.01  Purpose            36.04  Powers and Duties
36.02  Volunteer Ambulance36.05  Volunteer Ambulance Account
36.03  Board of Directors 36.06  Ambulance Rates
 
36.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the establishment of an ambulance
department for the City and for the creation and appointment of a board of
directors for the ambulance department and to specify that board’s powers and
duties.
36.02   VOLUNTEER AMBULANCE.
There is hereby established an Ambulance Department for the City, to be known
as the Kingsley Volunteer Ambulance.
36.03   BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
The Board of Directors of the Kingsley Volunteer Ambulance shall consist of the
Chief, Assistant Chief, Secretary, and Treasurer, who shall be elected and
serve their terms of office as set forth in the ambulance department’s bylaws.
36.04   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Board shall have an exercise the following powers and duties:
   1.   To meet and elect from its members a Chief, Assistant Chief, Treasurer,
Secretary, service officer, and stocking officer.
   2.   To direct and control all the affairs of the Volunteer Ambulance.
   3.   To make and adopt, amend, modify or repeal bylaws, rules, and
regulations, not inconsistent with ordinances and the law, for the care, use,
government and management of the Volunteer Ambulance Department and the
business of the Board.
   4.   To have exclusive control of the expenditure of all funds allocated for
Ambulance Department purposes by the Council.
   5.   To accept gifts of real property, personal property, or mixed property,
and devises and bequests, including trust funds; to take the title of said
property in the name of the Ambulance Department; and to expend the funds
received by them.
   6.   To keep a record of its proceedings.
   7.   To enforce the performance of conditions on gifts, donations, devises
and bequests accepted by the City by action against the City Council.
   8.   To have authority to purchase necessary equipment and supplies for the
Ambulance Department.
   9.   To contract with any other Ambulance Department, City, school,
township, or county as they deem necessary.
36.05   VOLUNTEER AMBULANCE ACCOUNT.
All money received will be appropriated by the Council for the operation and
maintenance of the Ambulance Department.  These funds shall be set aside in an
account for the Ambulance Department and these funds cannot be used for any
other purpose.  Expenditures shall be paid after approved by the Board.  The
warrant writing officer is the Clerk.
36.06   AMBULANCE RATES.
Ambulance rates for the Volunteer Ambulance are established as follows:
   1.   For each regular run:  $626.85;
   2.   For each paramedic assist run:  $691.95/883.05.
CHAPTER 37
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE SPILLS
 
37.01  Purpose                    37.05  Notifications
37.02  Definitions                37.06  Police Authority
37.03  Cleanup Required           37.07  Liability
37.04  Liability for Cleanup Costs
 
37.01   PURPOSE.
In order to reduce the danger to the public health, safety, and welfare from
the leaks and spills of hazardous substances, these regulations are promulgated
to establish responsibility for the treatment, removal and cleanup of hazardous
substance spills within the City limits.
37.02   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Cleanup” means actions necessary to contain, collect, control,
identify, analyze, clean up, treat, disperse, remove, or dispose of a hazardous
substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[1])
   2.   “Hazardous condition” means any situation involving the actual,
imminent, or probable spillage, leakage, or release of a hazardous substance
onto the land, into a water of the State, or into the atmosphere which creates
an immediate or potential danger to the public health or safety or to the
environment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[4])
   3.   “Hazardous substance” means any substance or mixture of substances that
presents a danger to the public health or safety and includes, but is not
limited to, a substance that is toxic, corrosive, or flammable, or that is an
irritant or that generates pressure through decomposition, heat, or other
means.  “Hazardous substance” may include any hazardous waste identified or
listed by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency under the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended by the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, or any toxic pollutant listed under
Section 307 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1,
1977, or any hazardous substance designated under Section 311 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1, 1977, or any hazardous
material designated by the Secretary of Transportation under the Hazardous
Materials Transportation Act. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[5])
   4.   “Responsible person” means a person who at any time produces, handles,
stores, uses, transports, refines, or disposes of a hazardous substance, the
release of which creates a hazardous condition, including bailees, carriers,
and any other person in control of a hazardous substance when a hazardous
condition occurs, whether the person owns the hazardous substance or is
operating under a lease, contract, or other agreement with the legal owner of
the hazardous substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[7])
37.03   CLEANUP REQUIRED.
Whenever a hazardous condition is created by the deposit, injection, dumping,
spilling, leaking or placing of a hazardous substance, so that the hazardous
substance or a constituent of the hazardous substance may enter the environment
or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including ground
waters, the responsible person shall cause the condition to be remedied by a
cleanup, as defined in the preceding section, as rapidly as feasible to an
acceptable, safe condition.  The costs of cleanup shall be borne by the
responsible person.  If the responsible person does not cause the cleanup to
begin in a reasonable time in relation to the hazard and circumstances of the
incident, the City may, by an authorized officer, give reasonable notice, based
on the character of the hazardous condition, said notice setting a deadline for
accomplishing the cleanup and stating that the City will proceed to procure
cleanup services and bill the responsible person for all costs associated with
the cleanup if the cleanup is not accomplished within the deadline.  In the
event that it is determined that immediate cleanup is necessary as a result of
the present danger to the public health, safety and welfare, then no notice
shall be required and the City may proceed to procure the cleanup and bill the
responsible person for all costs associated with the cleanup.  If the bill for
those services is not paid within 30 days, the City Attorney shall proceed to
obtain payment by all legal means.  If the cost of the cleanup is beyond the
capacity of the City to finance it, the authorized officer shall report to the
Council and immediately seek any State or federal funds available for said
cleanup.
37.04   LIABILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS.
The responsible person shall be strictly liable to the City for all of the
following:
   1.   The reasonable cleanup costs incurred by the City or the agents of the
City as a result of the failure of the responsible person to clean up a
hazardous substance involved in a hazardous condition.
   2.   The reasonable costs incurred by the City or the agents of the City to
evacuate people from the area threatened by a hazardous condition caused by the
person.
   3.   The reasonable damages to the City for the injury to, destruction of,
or loss of City property, including parks and roads, resulting from a hazardous
condition caused by that person, including the costs of assessing the injury,
destruction or loss.
   4.   The excessive and extraordinary cost incurred by the City or the agents
of the City in responding at and to the scene of a hazardous condition caused
by that person.
37.05   NOTIFICATIONS.
   1.   A person manufacturing, storing, handling, transporting, or disposing
of a hazardous substance shall notify the State Department of Natural Resources
and the Police Chief of the occurrence of a hazardous condition as soon as
possible but not later than six hours after the onset of the hazardous
condition or discovery of the hazardous condition.  The Police Chief shall
immediately notify the Department of Natural Resources. 
   2.   Any other person who discovers a hazardous condition shall notify the
Police Chief, who shall then notify the Department of Natural Resources.
37.06   POLICE AUTHORITY.
If the circumstances reasonably so require, the law enforcement officer or an
authorized representative may:
   1.   Evacuate persons from their homes to areas away from the site of a
hazardous condition, and
   2.   Establish perimeters or other boundaries at or near the site of a
hazardous condition and limit access to cleanup personnel.
No person shall disobey an order of any law enforcement officer issued under
this section.
37.07   LIABILITY.
The City shall not be liable to any person for claims of damages, injuries, or
losses resulting from any hazardous condition, unless the City is the
responsible person as defined in Section
37.02(4).
CHAPTER 40
PUBLIC PEACE
 
40.01  Assault           40.04  Unlawful Assembly
40.02  Harassment        40.05  Failure to Disperse
40.03  Disorderly Conduct
 
40.01   ASSAULT.
No person shall, without justification, commit any of the following:
   1.   Pain or Injury.  Any act that is intended to cause pain or injury to
another or that is intended to result in physical contact that will be
insulting or offensive to another, coupled with the apparent ability to execute
the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[1])
   2.   Threat of Pain or Injury.  Any act that is intended to place another in
fear of immediate physical contact which will be painful, injurious, insulting,
or offensive, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[2])
An act described in Subsections 1 and 2 shall not be an assault under the
following circumstances:  (i) if the person doing any of the enumerated acts,
and such other person, are voluntary participants in a sport, social or other
activity, not in itself criminal, and such act is a reasonably foreseeable
incident of such sport or activity, and does not create an unreasonable risk of
serious injury or breach of the peace; (ii) if the person doing any of the
enumerated acts is employed by a school district or accredited nonpublic
school, or is an area education agency staff member who provides services to a
school or school district, and intervenes in a fight or physical struggle or
other disruptive situation that takes place in the presence of the employee or
staff member performing employment duties in a school building, on school
grounds, or at an official school function, regardless of the location, whether
the fight or physical struggle or other disruptive situation is between
students or other individuals, if the degree and the force of the intervention
is reasonably necessary to restore order and to protect the safety of those
assembled.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1)
40.02   HARASSMENT.
No person shall commit harassment.
   1.   A person commits harassment when, with intent to intimidate, annoy, or
alarm another person, the person does any of the following:
      A.   Communicates with another by telephone, telegraph, writing, or via
electronic communication without legitimate purpose and in a manner likely to
cause the other person annoyance or harm.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      B.   Places any simulated explosive or simulated incendiary device in or
near any building, vehicle, airplane, railroad engine or railroad car, or boat
occupied by the other person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
C.   Orders merchandise or services in the name of another, or to be delivered
to another, without such other person’s knowledge or consent.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      D.   Reports or causes to be reported false information to a law
enforcement authority implicating another in some criminal activity, knowing
that the information is false, or reports the alleged occurrence of a criminal
act, knowing the same did not occur.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   2.   A person commits harassment when the person, purposefully and without
legitimate purpose, has personal contact with another person, with the intent
to threaten, intimidate or alarm that other person.  As used in this section,
unless the context otherwise requires, “personal contact” means an encounter in
which two or more people are in visual or physical proximity to each other. 
“Personal contact” does not require a physical touching or oral communication,
although it may include these types of contacts.
40.03   DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
No person shall do any of the following:
   1.   Fighting.  Engage in fighting or violent behavior in any public place
or in or near any lawful assembly of persons, provided that participants in
athletic contests may engage in such conduct that is reasonably related to that
sport.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1])
   2.   Noise.  Make loud and raucous noise in the vicinity of any residence or
public building which causes unreasonable distress to the occupants thereof. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[2])
   3.   Abusive Language.  Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening
gesture that the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a
violent reaction by another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[3])
   4.   Disrupt Lawful Assembly.  Without lawful authority or color of
authority, disturb any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by conduct
intended to disrupt the meeting or assembly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[4])
   5.   False Report of Catastrophe.  By words or action, initiate or circulate
a report or warning of fire, epidemic, or other catastrophe, knowing such
report to be false or such warning to be baseless.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[5])
   6.   Disrespect of Flag.  Knowingly and publicly use the flag of the United
States in such a manner as to show disrespect for the flag as a symbol of the
United States, with the intent or reasonable expectation that such use will
provoke or encourage another to commit trespass or assault.  As used in this
subsection:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[6])
      A.   “Deface” means to intentionally mar the external appearance.
      B.   “Defile” means to intentionally make physically unclean.
      C.   “Flag” means a piece of woven cloth or other material designed to be
flown from a pole or mast.
      D.   “Mutilate” means to intentionally cut up or alter so as to make
imperfect.
      E.   “Show disrespect” means to deface, defile, mutilate, or trample.
      F.   “Trample” means to intentionally tread upon or intentionally cause a
machine, vehicle, or animal to tread upon.
   7.   Obstruct Use of Street.  Without authority or justification, obstruct
any street, sidewalk, highway, or other public way, with the intent to prevent
or hinder its lawful use by others.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[7])
   8.   Funeral or Memorial Service.  Within 1,000 feet of the building or
other location where a funeral or memorial service is being conducted, or
within 1,000 feet of a funeral procession or burial:
      A.   Make loud and raucous noise that causes unreasonable distress to the
persons attending the funeral or memorial service or participating in the
funeral procession.
      B.   Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture that the
person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent reaction
by another.
      C.   Disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial service, funeral
procession, or burial by conduct intended to disturb or disrupt the funeral,
memorial service, funeral procession, or burial.
This subsection applies to conduct within 60 minutes preceding, during, and
within 60 minutes after a funeral, memorial service, funeral procession, or
burial.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5)
40.04   UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
It is unlawful for three or more persons to assemble together, with them or any
of them acting in a violent manner, and with intent that they or any of them
will commit a public offense.  No person shall willingly join in or remain part
of an unlawful assembly, knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe it is
such.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.2)
40.05   FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
A peace officer may order the participants in a riot or unlawful assembly or
persons in the immediate vicinity of a riot or unlawful assembly to disperse. 
No person within hearing distance of such command shall refuse to obey.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.3) 
CHAPTER 41
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
 
41.01  Distributing Dangerous Substances                     41.08  Abandoned or Unattended
                                                              Refrigerators
41.02  False Reports to or Communications with Public Safety 41.09  Antenna and Radio Wires
Entities
41.03  Providing False Identification Information            41.10  Barbed Wire and Electric
                                                              Fences
41.04  Refusing to Assist Officer                            41.11  Discharging Weapons
41.05  Harassment of Public Officers and Employees           41.12  Throwing and Shooting
41.06  Interference with Official Acts                       41.13  Urinating and Defecating
41.07  Removal of an Officer’s Communication or Control    41.14  Fireworks
Device
 
41.01   DISTRIBUTING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
No person shall distribute samples of any drugs or medicine, or any corrosive,
caustic, poisonous or other injurious substance unless the person delivers such
into the hands of a competent person, or otherwise takes reasonable precautions
that the substance will not be taken by children or animals from the place
where the substance is deposited.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.1)
41.02   FALSE REPORTS TO OR COMMUNICATIONS WITH PUBLIC SAFETY ENTITIES.
No person shall do any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.6)
   1.   Report or cause to be reported false information to a fire department,
a law enforcement authority or other public safety entity, knowing that the
information is false, or report the alleged occurrence of a criminal act
knowing the act did not occur.
   2.   Telephone an emergency 911 communications center, knowing that he or
she is not reporting an emergency or otherwise needing emergency information or
assistance. 
   3.   Knowingly provide false information to a law enforcement officer who
enters the information on a citation.
41.03   PROVIDING FALSE IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION.
No person shall knowingly provide false identification information to anyone
known by the person to be a peace officer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, in the performance of any act that is
within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, emergency
medical care provider, or firefighter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1A)
41.04   REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
Any person who is requested or ordered by any magistrate or peace officer to
render the magistrate or officer assistance in making or attempting to make an
arrest, or to prevent the commission of any criminal act, shall render
assistance as required.  No person shall unreasonably and without lawful cause,
refuse or neglect to render assistance when so requested.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.2)
41.05   HARASSMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
No person shall willfully prevent or attempt to prevent any public officer or
employee from performing the officer’s or employee’s duty.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.4)
41.06   INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTS.
No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct anyone known by the person to be a
peace officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider under Chapter 147A of
the Code of Iowa, or firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, or a person
performing bailiff duties pursuant to Section 602.1303[4] of the Code of Iowa,
in the performance of any act that is within the scope of the lawful duty or
authority of that officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, or person performing bailiff duties, or shall knowingly resist or
obstruct the service or execution by any authorized person of any civil or
criminal process or order of any court.  The terms “resist” and “obstruct” as
used in this section do not include verbal harassment unless the verbal
harassment is accompanied by a present ability and apparent intention to
execute a verbal threat physically.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1)
41.07   REMOVAL OF AN OFFICER’S COMMUNICATION OR CONTROL DEVICE.
No person shall knowingly or intentionally remove or attempt to remove a
communication device or any device used for control from the possession of a
peace officer or correctional officer, when the officer is in the performance
of any act which is within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that
officer and the person knew or should have known the individual to be an
officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.12)
41.08   ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED REFRIGERATORS.
No person shall abandon or otherwise leave unattended any refrigerator, ice
box, or similar container, with doors that may become locked, outside of
buildings and accessible to children, nor shall any person allow any such
refrigerator, ice box, or similar container, to remain outside of buildings on
premises in the person’s possession or control, abandoned or unattended and so
accessible to children.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.3)
41.09   ANTENNA AND RADIO WIRES.
It is unlawful for a person to allow antenna wires, antenna supports, radio
wires, or television wires to exist over any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
public way, public ground, or public building without written consent of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.10   BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
It is unlawful for a person to use barbed wire or electric fences to enclose
land within the City limits without the written consent of the Council unless
such land consists of 10 acres or more and is used as agricultural land.
41.11   DISCHARGING WEAPONS.
   1.   It is unlawful for a person to discharge rifles, shotguns, revolvers,
pistols, guns, or other firearms of any kind within the City limits except by
written consent of the Council.
   2.   No person shall intentionally discharge a firearm in a reckless manner.
41.12   THROWING AND SHOOTING.
It is unlawful for a person to throw stones, bricks, or missiles of any kind or
to shoot arrows, paintballs, rubber guns, slingshots, air rifles, BB guns, or
other dangerous instruments or toys on or into any street, alley, highway,
sidewalk, public way, public ground, or public building, without written
consent of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.13   URINATING AND DEFECATING.
It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate onto any sidewalk, street,
alley, or other public way, or onto any public or private building, including
but not limited to the wall, floor, hallway, steps, stairway, doorway, or
window thereof, or onto any public or private land.
41.14   FIREWORKS.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.2)
   1.   Definitions.  For purposes of this section:
      A.   “Consumer fireworks” means the following fireworks, as described in
Chapter 3 of the American Pyrotechnics Association (“APA”) Standard 87-1:
         (1)   First-class consumer fireworks:
            a.   Aerial shell kits and reloadable tubes;
            b.   Chasers;
            c.   Helicopters and aerial spinners;
            d.   Firecrackers;
            e.   Mine and shell devices;
            f.   Missile-type rockets;
            g.   Roman candles;
            h.   Sky rockets and bottle rockets;
            i.   Multiple tube devices under this paragraph which are
manufactured in accordance with APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.5.
         (2)   Second-class consumer fireworks:
            a.   Cone fountains;
            b.   Cylindrical fountains;
            c.   Flitter sparklers;
            d.   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices, including multiple
tube ground and hand-held sparkling devices that are manufactured in accordance
with APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.5;
            e.   Ground spinners;
            f.   Illuminating torches;
            g.   Toy smoke devices that are not classified as novelties
pursuant to APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.2;
            h.   Wheels;
            i.   Wire or dipped sparklers that are not classified as novelties
pursuant to APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.2.
      B.   “Display fireworks” includes any explosive composition, or
combination of explosive substances, or article prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration,
or detonation, and includes fireworks containing any explosive or flammable
compound, or other device containing any explosive substance.  “Display
fireworks” does not include novelties or consumer fireworks enumerated in
Chapter 3 of the APA Standard 87-1.
      C.   “Novelties”includes all novelties enumerated in Chapter 3 of the APA
Standard 87-1, and that comply with the labeling regulations promulgated by the
United States Consumer Product Safety Commission.
   2.   Display Fireworks.  It is unlawful for any person to use or explode any
display fireworks; provided, the City Council may, upon application in writing,
grant a permit for the display of display fireworks by municipalities, fair
associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of individuals
approved by the City when the display fireworks will be handled by a competent
operator,but no such permit shall be required for the display of display
fireworks at the Iowa State Fairgrounds by the Iowa State Fair Board, at
incorporated county fairs, or at district fairs receiving State aid..  No
permit shall be granted hereunder unless the operator or sponsoring
organization has filed with the City evidence of insurance in the following
amounts:
      A.   Personal Injury:   $250,000.00 per person
      B.   Property Damage:   $50,000.00
      C.   Total Exposure:   $1,000,000.00
   3.   Consumer Fireworks. 
      A.   It is unlawful for any person to use or explode consumer fireworks
on days other than June 1 through July 8 and December 10 through January 3 of
each year, all dates inclusive.
      B.   It is unlawful for any person to use or explode consumer fireworks
at times other than between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., except that
on the following dates consumer fireworks shall not be used at times other than
between the hours specified:
         (1)   Between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on July 4 and the
Saturdays and Sundays immediately preceding and following July 4.
         (2)   Between the hours of 9:00 a.m. on December 31 and 12:30 a.m. on
the immediately following day.
         (3)   Between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on the Saturdays
and Sundays immediately preceding and following December 31.
      C.   It is unlawful for any person to use consumer fireworks on real
property other than that person’s real property or on the real property of a
person who has consented to the use of consumer fireworks on that property.
   4.   Novelties.  This section does not apply to novelties.
CHAPTER 42
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
 
42.01  Trespassing                      42.05  Fraud
42.02  Criminal Mischief                42.06  Theft
42.03  Defacing Proclamations or Notices42.07  Other Public Property Offenses
42.04  Unauthorized Entry
 
42.01   TRESPASSING.
   1.   Prohibited.  It is unlawful for a person to knowingly trespass upon the
property of another. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.8)
   2.   Definitions.  For purposes of this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[1])
      A.   “Property” includes any land, dwelling, building, conveyance,
vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure, whether publicly or
privately owned. 
      B.   “Public utility” is a public utility as defined in Section 476.1 of
the Code of Iowa or an electric transmission line as provided in Chapter 478 of
the Code of Iowa.
      C.   “Public utility property” means any land, dwelling, building,
conveyance, vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure owned, leased,
or operated by a public utility and that is completely enclosed by a physical
barrier of any kind.
      D.   “Railway corporation” means a corporation, company, or person
owning, leasing, or operating any railroad in whole or in part within this
State.
      E.   “Railway property” means all tangible real and personal property
owned, leased, or operated by a railway corporation, with the exception of any
administrative building or offices of the railway corporation.
      F.   “Trespass” means one or more of the following acts:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2a])
         (1)   Entering upon or in property without the express permission of
the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession with the intent to commit a
public offense or to use, remove therefrom, alter, damage, harass, or place
thereon or therein anything animate or inanimate.
         (2)   Entering or remaining upon or in property without justification
after being notified or requested to abstain from entering or to remove or
vacate therefrom by the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or the
agent or employee of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or by
any peace officer, magistrate, or public employee whose duty it is to supervise
the use or maintenance of the property.
         (3)   Entering upon or in property for the purpose or with the effect
of unduly interfering with the lawful use of the property by others.
         (4)   Being upon or in property and wrongfully using, removing
therefrom, altering, damaging, harassing, or placing thereon or therein
anything animate or inanimate, without the implied or actual permission of the
owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession.
         (5)   Entering or remaining upon or in railway property without lawful
authority or without the consent of the railway corporation which owns, leases,
or operates the railway property.  This paragraph does not apply to passage
over a railroad right-of-way, other than a track, railroad roadbed, viaduct,
bridge, trestle, or railroad yard, by an unarmed person if the person has not
been notified or requested to abstain from entering onto the right-of-way or to
vacate the right-of-way and the passage over the right-of-way does not
interfere with the operation of the railroad.
         (6)   Entering or remaining upon or in public utility property without
lawful authority or without the consent of the public utility that owns,
leases, or operates the public utility property.  This paragraph does not apply
to passage over public utility right-of-way by a person if the person has not
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering onto the right-of-way or to vacate the right-of-way.
   3.   Specific Exceptions.  “Trespass” does not mean either of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2b])
      A.   Entering upon the property of another for the sole purpose of
retrieving personal property which has accidentally or inadvertently been
thrown, fallen, strayed, or blown onto the property of another, provided that
the person retrieving the property takes the most direct and accessible route
to and from the property to be retrieved, quits the property as quickly as is
possible, and does not unduly interfere with the lawful use of the property. 
This paragraph does not apply to public utility property where the person has
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering.
      B.   Entering upon the right-of-way of a public road or highway.
42.02   CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
It is unlawful, for any person who has no right to do so, to intentionally
damage, deface, alter, or destroy property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.03   DEFACING PROCLAMATIONS OR NOTICES.
It is unlawful for a person intentionally to deface, obliterate, tear down, or
destroy in whole or in part, any transcript or extract from or of any law of
the United States or the State, or any proclamation, advertisement or
notification, set up at any place within the City by authority of the law or by
order of any court, during the time for which the same is to remain set up.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.04   UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.
No unauthorized person shall enter or remain in or upon any public building,
premises, or grounds in violation of any notice posted thereon or when said
building, premises or grounds are closed and not open to the public.  When open
to the public, a failure to pay any required admission fee also constitutes an
unauthorized entry.
42.05   FRAUD.
It is unlawful for any person to commit a fraudulent practice as defined in
Section 714.8 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.8) 
42.06   THEFT.
It is unlawful for any person to commit theft as defined in Section 714.1 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1) 
42.07   OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other activities or conditions that are also deemed
to be public property offenses:
   1.   
Chapter 21 – Library
      A.   Section
21.10 – Injury to Books or Property
      B.   Section
21.11 – Theft of Library Property
   2.   
Chapter 105 – Solid Waste Control and Recycling
      A.   Section
105.07 – Littering Prohibited
   3.   
Chapter 135 – Street Use and Maintenance
      A.   Section
135.01 – Removal of Warning Devices
      B.   Section
135.02 – Obstructing or Defacing
      C.   Section
135.03 – Placing Debris On
      D.   Section
135.04 – Playing In
      E.   Section
135.05 – Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley
      F.   Section
135.08 – Burning Prohibited
      G.   Section
135.12 – Dumping of Snow
   4.   
Chapter 136 – Sidewalk Regulations
      A.   Section
136.11 – Interference with Sidewalk Improvements
      B.   Section
136.14 – Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
      C.   Section
136.15 – Defacing
      D.   Section
136.16 – Debris on Sidewalks
      E.   Section
136.17 – Merchandise Display
      F.   Section
136.18 – Sales Stands
CHAPTER 43
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
 
43.01  Purpose              43.04  Determining Factors
43.02  Controlled Substance 43.05  Possession of Drug Paraphernalia
Defined
43.03  Drug Paraphernalia   43.06  Manufacture, Delivery, or Offering For
Defined                      Sale
 
43.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit the use, possession with intent to
use, manufacture, and delivery of drug paraphernalia as defined herein.
43.02   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE DEFINED.
The term “controlled substance” as used in this chapter is defined as the term
“controlled substance” is defined in the Uniform Controlled Substance Act,
Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa, as it now exists or is hereafter amended.
43.03   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA DEFINED.
The term “drug paraphernalia” as used in this chapter means all equipment,
products, and materials of any kind which are used, intended for use, or
designed for use, in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, concealing, containing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body a
controlled substance in violation of the Uniform Controlled Substances Act,
Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa.  It includes, but is not limited to:
   1.   Growing Kits.  Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of
plant which is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can
be derived.
   2.   Processing Kits.  Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing
controlled substances.
   3.   Isomerization Devices.  Isomerization devices used, intended for use,
or designed for use in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is
a controlled substance.
   4.   Testing Equipment.  Testing equipment used, intended for use, or
designed for use in identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or
purity of controlled substances.
   5.   Scales.  Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for
use in weighing or measuring controlled substances.
   6.   Diluents.  Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose, or lactose, used, intended for use, or designed
for use in cutting controlled substances.
   7.   Separators; Sifters.  Separation gins and sifters used, intended for
use, or designed for use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise
cleaning or refining marijuana.
   8.   Mixing Devices.  Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons, and mixing
devices used, intended for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled
substances.
   9.   Containers.  Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used,
intended for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances.
   10.   Storage Containers.  Containers and other objects used, intended for
use, or designed for use in storing or concealing controlled substances.
   11.   Injecting Devices.  Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects
used, intended for use, or designed for use in parenterally injecting
controlled substances into the human body.
   12.   Ingesting-Inhaling Device.  Objects used, intended for use, or
designed for use in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing heroin,
marijuana, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the human body, such as:
      A.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes with
or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal bowls;
      B.   Water pipes;
      C.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
      D.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
      E.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning materials, such as
a marijuana cigarette that has become too small or too short to be held in the
hand;
      F.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
      G.   Chamber pipes;
      H.   Carburetor pipes;
      I.   Electric pipes;
      J.   Air driven pipes;
      K.   Chillums;
      L.   Bongs;
      M.   Ice pipes or chillers.
43.04   DETERMINING FACTORS.
In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia for the purpose of
enforcing this chapter, the following factors should be considered in addition
to all other logically relevant factors:
   1.   Statements.  Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the
object concerning its use.
   2.   Prior Convictions.  Prior convictions, if any, of an owner or of anyone
in control of the object under any State or federal law relating to any
controlled substance.
   3.   Proximity to Violation.  The proximity of the object, in time and
space, to a direct violation of the Uniform Controlled Substance Act, Chapter
124 of the Code of Iowa.
   4.   Proximity to Substances.  The proximity of the object to controlled
substances.
   5.   Residue.  The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object.
   6.   Evidence of Intent.  Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of
an owner or of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom
he or she knows, or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to
facilitate a violation of the Uniform Controlled Substances Act, Chapter 124 of
the Code of Iowa.
   7.   Innocence of an Owner.  The innocence of an owner, or of anyone in
control of the object, as to a direct violation of the Uniform Controlled
Substances Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa, should not prevent a finding
that the object is intended for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   8.   Instructions.  Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use.
   9.   Descriptive Materials.  Descriptive materials accompanying the object
explaining or depicting its use.
   10.   Advertising.  National and local advertising concerning its use.
   11.   Displayed.  The manner in which the object is displayed for sale.
   12.   Licensed Distributor or Dealer.  Whether the owner, or anyone in
control of the object, is a legitimate supplier of like or related items to the
community, such as a licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products.
   13.   Sales Ratios.  Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales
of the object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise.
   14.   Legitimate Uses.  The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the
object in the community.
   15.   Expert Testimony.  Expert testimony concerning its use.
43.05   POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to use, drug
paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into
the human body a controlled substance in violation of the Uniform Controlled
Substance Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa.
43.06   MANUFACTURE, DELIVERY, OR OFFERING FOR SALE.
It is unlawful for any person to deliver, possess with intent to deliver,
manufacture with intent to deliver, or offer for sale drug paraphernalia,
intending that the drug paraphernalia will be used, or knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know that it will be used, or knowing
that it is designed for use to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the Uniform
Controlled Substances Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 45
ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION AND INTOXICATION
 
45.01  Persons Under Legal Age45.03  Open Containers in Motor Vehicles
45.02  Public Consumption or  45.04  Social Host
Intoxication
 
45.01   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
As used in this section, “legal age” means 21 years of age or more.
   1.   A person or persons under legal age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase, consume, or individually or jointly have alcoholic beverages in their
possession or control; except in the case of any alcoholic beverage given or
dispensed to a person under legal age within a private home and with the
knowledge, presence and consent of the parent or guardian, for beverage or
medicinal purposes or as administered to the person by either a physician or
dentist for medicinal purposes and except to the extent that a person under
legal age may handle alcoholic beverages during the regular course of the
person’s employment by a liquor control licensee, or wine or beer permittee
under State laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47[3])
   2.   A person under legal age shall not misrepresent the person’s age for
the purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic beverage from
any liquor control licensee or wine or beer permittee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[3])
45.02   PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OR INTOXICATION.
   1.   As used in this section unless the context otherwise requires:
      A.   “Arrest” means the same as defined in Section 804.5 of the Code of
Iowa and includes taking into custody pursuant to Section 232.19 of the Code of
Iowa.
      B.   “Chemical test” means a test of a person’s blood, breath, or urine
to determine the percentage of alcohol present by a qualified person using
devices and methods approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
      C.   “Peace officer” means the same as defined in Section 801.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
      D.   “School” means a public or private school or that portion of a
public or private school that provides teaching for any grade from kindergarten
through grade twelve.
   2.   A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor, wine or beer upon
the public streets or highways.  A person shall not use or consume alcoholic
liquor in any public place, except premises covered by a liquor control
license.  A person shall not possess or consume alcoholic liquors, wine, or
beer on public school property or while attending any public or private school-
related function.  A person shall not be intoxicated in a public place. 
   3.   A person shall not simulate intoxication in a public place.
   4.   When a peace officer arrests a person on a charge of public
intoxication under this section, the peace officer shall inform the person that
the person may have a chemical test administered at the person’s own expense. 
If a device approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety for testing a sample
of a person’s breath to determine the person’s blood alcohol concentration is
available, that is the only test that need be offered the person arrested.  In
a prosecution for public intoxication, evidence of the results of a chemical
test performed under this subsection is admissible upon proof of a proper
foundation.  The percentage of alcohol present in a person’s blood, breath, or
urine established by the results of a chemical test performed within two hours
after the person’s arrest on a charge of public intoxication is presumed to be
the percentage of alcohol present at the time of arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.46)
45.03   OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
[See Section 62.01(49) and (50) of this Code of Ordinances.]
45.04   SOCIAL HOST.
A person who is the owner or lessee of, or who otherwise has control over,
property that is not a licensed premises shall not knowingly permit any person,
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the person to be under the age of
eighteen, to consume or possess on such property any alcoholic beverage.  The
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a landlord or manager of the
property or to a person under legal age who consumes or possesses any alcoholic
beverage in connection with a religious observance, ceremony, or rite.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47)
CHAPTER 46
MINORS
 
46.01  Curfew                46.03  Contributing to Delinquency
46.02  Cigarettes and Tobacco
 
46.01   CURFEW.
The Council has determined that a curfew for minors is necessary to promote the
public health, safety, morals and general welfare of the City and specifically
to reinforce the primary authority and responsibility of adults responsible for
minors; to protect the public from the illegal acts of minors committed after
the curfew hour; and to protect minors from improper influences and criminal
activity that prevail in public places after the curfew hour.
   1.   Definitions.  For use in this section, the following terms are defined:
      A.   “Emergency errand” means, but is not limited to, an errand relating
to a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any other situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious illness, bodily injury, or loss
of life.
      B.   “Knowingly” means knowledge that a responsible adult should
reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that
responsible adult’s custody.  It is intended to continue to hold the neglectful
or careless adult responsible for a minor to a reasonable standard of adult
responsibility through an objective test.  It is therefore no defense that an
adult responsible for a minor was completely indifferent to the activities or
conduct or whereabouts of the minor.
      C.   “Minor” means any unemancipated person under the age of 18 years.
      D.   “Nonsecured custody” means custody in an unlocked multipurpose area,
such as a lobby, office or interrogation room that is not designed, set aside,
or used as a secure detention area, and the person arrested is not physically
secured during the period of custody in the area; the person is physically
accompanied by a law enforcement officer or a person employed by the facility
where the person arrested is being held; and the use of the area is limited to
providing nonsecured custody only while awaiting transfer to an appropriate
juvenile facility or to court, for contacting of and release to the person’s
parents or other responsible adult or for other administrative purposes; but
not for longer than six hours without the oral or written order of a judge or
magistrate authorizing the detention.  A judge shall not extend the period of
time in excess of six hours beyond the initial six-hour period.
      E.   “Public place” includes stores, parking lots, parks, playgrounds,
streets, alleys, and sidewalks dedicated to public use and also includes such
parts of buildings and other premises, whether publicly or privately owned,
that are used by the general public or to which the general public is invited
commercially for a fee or otherwise; or in or on which the general public is
permitted without specific invitation; or to which the general public has
access.  For purposes of this section, a vehicle or other conveyance is
considered to be a public place when in the areas defined above.
      F.   “Responsible adult” means a parent, guardian or other adult
specifically authorized by law or authorized by a parent or guardian to have
custody or control of a minor.
   2.   Curfew Established.  It is unlawful for any minor to be or remain upon
any of the alleys, streets or public places or to be in places of business and
amusement in the City as follows:
      A.   Minors Under 14 Years of Age:  Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m. of the following day.
      B.   Minors Age 14 or 15.  Between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
of the following day.
      C.   Minors Age 16 and 17.  Between the hours of 12:30 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
of the following day.
   3.   Exceptions.  The following are exceptions to the curfew:
      A.   The minor is accompanied by a responsible adult.
      B.   The minor is on the sidewalk or property where the minor resides or
on either side of the place where the minor resides and the adult responsible
for the minor has given permission for the minor to be there.
      C.   The minor is present at or is traveling between home and one of the
following:
         (1)   Minor’s place of employment in a business, trade or occupation
in which the minor is permitted by law to be engaged or, if traveling, within
one hour after the end or before the beginning of work;
         (2)   Minor’s place of religious activity or, if traveling, within one
hour after the end or before the beginning of the religious activity;
         (3)   Governmental or political activity or, if traveling, within one
hour after the end or before the beginning of the activity;
         (4)   School activity or, if traveling, within one hour after the end
or before the beginning of the activity;
         (5)   Assembly such as a march, protest, demonstration, sit-in or
meeting of an association for the advancement of economic, political, religious
or cultural matters, or for any other activity protected by the First Amendment
of the U.S. Constitution guarantees of free exercise of religion, freedom of
speech, freedom of assembly or, if traveling, within one hour after the end or
before the beginning of the activity.
      D.   The minor is on an emergency errand for a responsible adult;
      E.   The minor is engaged in interstate travel through the City
beginning, ending or passing through the City when such travel is by direct
route.
   4.   Responsibility of Adults.  It is unlawful for any responsible adult
knowingly to permit or to allow a minor to be in any public place in the City
within the time periods prohibited by this section unless the minor’s presence
falls within one of the above exceptions.
   5.   Enforcement Procedures.
      A.   Determination of Age.  In determining the age of the juvenile and in
the absence of convincing evidence such as a birth certificate or driver’s
license, a law enforcement officer on the street shall, in the first instance,
use his or her best judgment in determining age.
      B.   Grounds for Arrest; Conditions of Custody.  Grounds for arrest are
that the person refuses to sign the citation without qualification; persists in
violating the ordinance; refuses to provide proper identification or to
identify himself or herself; or constitutes an immediate threat to the person’s
own safety or to the safety of the public.  A law enforcement officer who
arrests a minor for a curfew violation may keep the minor in custody either in
a shelter care facility or in any nonsecured setting.  The officer shall not
place bodily restraints, such as handcuffs, on the minor unless the minor
physically resists or threatens physical violence when being taken into
custody.  A minor shall not be placed in detention following a curfew
violation.
      C.   Notification of Responsible Adult.  After a minor is taken into
custody, the law enforcement officer shall notify the adult responsible for the
minor as soon as possible.  The minor shall be released to the adult
responsible for the minor upon the promise of such person to produce the child
in court at such time as the court may direct.
      D.   Minor Without Adult Supervision.  If a law enforcement officer
determines that a minor does not have adult supervision because the law
enforcement officer cannot locate the minor’s parent, guardian or other person
legally responsible for the care of the minor, within a reasonable time, the
law enforcement officer shall attempt to place the minor with an adult relative
of the minor, an adult person who cares for the child or another adult person
who is known to the child.
   6.   Penalties.
      A.   Responsible Adult’s First Violation.  In the case of a first
violation by a minor, the law enforcement officer shall, by certified mail,
send to the adult responsible for the minor, written notice of the violation
with a warning that any subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of
the curfew ordinance against both the responsible adult and minor, with
applicable penalties.
      B.   Responsible Adult’s Second Violation.  Any responsible adult as
defined in this section who, following receipt of a warning, knowingly allows
the minor to violate any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
municipal infraction.
      C.   Minor’s First Violation.  In the case of a first violation by a
minor, the law enforcement officer shall give the minor a written warning,
which states that any subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of
the curfew ordinance against the responsible adult and the minor, with
applicable penalties, or, at the law enforcement officer’s discretion, may
issue the minor a citation for a first violation.
      D.   Minor’s Second Violation.  For the minor’s second and subsequent
violations of any of the provisions of this section, the minor is guilty of a
municipal infraction. 
46.02   CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO.
It is unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to smoke, use, possess,
purchase, or attempt to purchase any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes.  Possession of tobacco,
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes
by an individual under 21 years of age shall not constitute a violation of this
section if the individual under 21 years of age possesses the tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes as part
of the person’s employment and said person is employed by a person who holds a
valid permit under Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or who lawfully offers for
sale or sells cigarettes or tobacco products.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2)
46.03   CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY.
It is unlawful for any person to encourage any child under 18 years of age to
commit any act of delinquency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 709A.1)
CHAPTER 50
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
 
50.01  Definition of Nuisance50.05  Nuisance Abatement
50.02  Nuisances Enumerated  50.06  Abatement of Nuisance by Written Notice
50.03  Other Conditions      50.07  Municipal Infraction Abatement Procedure
50.04  Nuisances Prohibited
 
50.01   DEFINITION OF NUISANCE.
Whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or unreasonably offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is a
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.1)
50.02   NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions that are
deemed to be nuisances in the City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.2)
   1.   Offensive Smells.  Erecting, continuing, or using any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture that, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, unreasonably offensive smells, or other
annoyances, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort, or property
of individuals or the public.
   2.   Filth or Noisome Substance.  Causing or suffering any offal, filth, or
noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place to the prejudice of
others.
   3.   Impeding Passage of Navigable River.  Obstructing or impeding without
legal authority the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or collection of
water.
   4.   Water Pollution.  Corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the
water of any river, stream, or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from its
natural course or state, to the injury or prejudice of others.
   5.   Blocking Public and Private Ways.  Obstructing or encumbering, by
fences, buildings or otherwise, the public roads, private ways, streets,
alleys, commons, landing places, or burying grounds.
   6.   Billboards.  Billboards, signboards, and advertising signs, whether
erected and constructed on public or private property, that so obstruct and
impair the view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway,
boulevard or alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render
dangerous the use thereof.  (See also Section
62.06)
   7.   Storing of Flammable Junk.  Depositing or storing of flammable junk,
such as old rags, rope, cordage, rubber, bones and paper, by dealers in such
articles within the fire limits of the City, unless in a building of fireproof
construction.  (See also
Chapter 51)
   8.   Air Pollution.  Emission of dense smoke, noxious fumes, or fly ash.
   9.   Weeds, Brush.  Dense growth of all weeds, vines, brush, or other
vegetation in the City so as to constitute a health, safety, or fire hazard.
   10.   Dutch Elm Disease.  Trees infected with Dutch elm disease.  (See also
Chapter 151)
   11.   Airport Air Space.  Any object or structure hereafter erected within
1,000 feet of the limits of any municipal or regularly established airport or
landing place, which may endanger or obstruct aerial navigation including take-
off and landing, unless such object or structure constitutes a proper use or
enjoyment of the land on which the same is located.
   12.   Houses of Ill Fame.  Houses of ill fame, kept for the purpose of
prostitution and lewdness; gambling houses; places resorted to by persons
participating in criminal gang activity prohibited by Chapter 723A of the Code
of Iowa or places resorted to by persons using controlled substances, as
defined in Section 124.101 of the Code of Iowa, in violation of law, or houses
where drunkenness, quarreling, fighting or breaches of the peace are carried on
or permitted to the disturbance of others.
50.03   OTHER CONDITIONS.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other conditions that are deemed to be nuisances:
   1.   Junk and Junk Vehicles (See
Chapter 51)
   2.   Weeds (See
Chapter 52)
   3.   Dangerous Buildings (See
Chapter 145)
   4.   Storage and Disposal of Solid Waste (See
Chapter 105)
   5.   Trees (See
Chapter 151)
   6.   International Property Maintenance Code (See
Chapter 147)
50.04   NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited, and a nuisance, public
or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in this chapter or State
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.3)
50.05   NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
Whenever any authorized municipal officer finds that a nuisance exists, such
officer has the authority to determine on a case-by-case basis whether to
utilize the nuisance abatement procedure described in Section
50.06 of this chapter or the municipal infraction procedure referred to in
Section
50.07.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
50.06   ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY WRITTEN NOTICE.
Any nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in
this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   1.   Contents of Notice to Property Owner.  The notice to abate shall
contain:  3  
      A.   Description of Nuisance.  A description of what constitutes the
nuisance.
      B.   Location of Nuisance.  The location of the nuisance.
      C.   Acts Necessary to Abate.  A statement of the act or acts necessary
to abate the nuisance.
      D.   Reasonable Time.  A reasonable time within which to complete the
abatement.
      E.   Assessment of City Costs.  A statement that if the nuisance or
condition is not abated as directed and no request for hearing is made within
the time prescribed, the City will abate it and assess the costs against the
property owner.
   2.   Method of Service.  The notice may be in the form of an ordinance or
sent by certified mail to the property owner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   3.   Request for Hearing.  Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a
hearing with the Council as to whether a nuisance exists.  A request for a
hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the Clerk within the time
stated in the notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that a nuisance
exists and it must be abated as ordered.  The hearing will be before the
Council at a time and place fixed by the Council.  The findings of the Council
shall be conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered
abated within a reasonable time under the circumstances.
   4.   Abatement in Emergency.  If it is determined that an emergency exists
by reason of the continuing maintenance of the nuisance or condition, the City
may perform any action that may be required under this chapter without prior
notice.  The City shall assess the costs as provided in Subsection 6 of this
section after notice to the property owner under the applicable provisions of
Subsection 1 and 2, and the hearing as provided in Subsection 3.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   5.   Abatement by City.  If the person notified to abate a nuisance or
condition neglects or fails to abate as directed, the City may perform the
required action to abate, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred. 
The itemized expense account shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall pay such
expenses on behalf of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   6.   Collection of Costs.  The Clerk shall send a statement of the total
expense incurred by certified mail to the property owner who has failed to
abide by the notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has not
been paid within one month, the Clerk shall certify the costs to the County
Treasurer and such costs shall then be collected with, and in the same manner
as, general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   7.   Installment Payment of Cost of Abatement.  If the amount expended to
abate the nuisance or condition exceeds $500.00, the City may permit the
assessment to be paid in up to 10 annual installments, to be paid in the same
manner and with the same interest rates provided for assessments against
benefited property under State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.13)
   8.   Failure to Abate.  Any person causing or maintaining a nuisance who
shall fail or refuse to abate or remove the same within the reasonable time
required and specified in the notice to abate is in violation of this Code of
Ordinances.
 
Notes
  †EDITOR’S NOTE:  A suggested form of notice for the abatement of nuisances is
  included in the Appendix of this Code of Ordinances.  Caution is urged in the use
  of this administrative abatement procedure, particularly where cost of abatement
3 is more than minimal or where there is doubt as to whether or not a nuisance does
  in fact exist.  If compliance is not secured following notice and hearings, we
  recommend you review the situation with your attorney before proceeding with
  abatement and assessment of costs.  Your attorney may recommend proceedings in
  court under Chapter 657 of the Code of Iowa rather than this procedure.
50.07   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
In lieu of the abatement procedures set forth in Section
50.06, the requirements of this chapter may be enforced under the procedures
applicable to municipal infractions as set forth in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 51
JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES
 
51.01  Definitions                      51.04  Exceptions
51.02  Junk and Junk Vehicles Prohibited51.05  Notice to Abate
51.03  Junk and Junk Vehicles a Nuisance
 
51.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other non-
ferrous metal; old or discarded rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste or used lumber, or salvaged wood; dismantled vehicles, machinery
and appliances or parts of such vehicles, machinery or appliances; iron, steel
or other old or scrap ferrous materials; old or discarded glass, tinware,
plastic or old or discarded household goods or hardware.  Neatly stacked
firewood located on a side yard or a rear yard is not considered junk.
   2.   “Junk vehicle” means any vehicle legally placed in storage with the
County Treasurer or unlicensed and having any of the following characteristics:
      A.   Broken Glass.  Any vehicle with a broken or cracked windshield,
window, headlight or tail light, or any other cracked or broken glass.
      B.   Broken, Loose, or Missing Part.  Any vehicle with a broken, loose,
or missing fender, door, bumper, hood, steering wheel or trunk lid.
      C.   Habitat for Nuisance Animals or Insects.  Any vehicle that has
become the habitat for rats, mice, snakes, or any other vermin or insects.
      D.   Flammable Fuel.  Any vehicle that contains gasoline or any other
flammable fuel.
      E.   Inoperable.  Any motor vehicle that lacks an engine or two or more
wheels or other structural parts, rendering said motor vehicle totally
inoperable, or that cannot be moved under its own power or has not been used as
an operating vehicle for a period of 30 days or more.
      F.   Defective or Obsolete Condition.  Any other vehicle that, because of
its defective or obsolete condition, in any other way constitutes a threat to
the public health and safety.
Mere licensing of such vehicle shall not constitute a defense to the finding
that the vehicle is a junk vehicle.
   3.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which a person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway or street, except devices
moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and
includes without limitation a motor vehicle, automobile, truck, motorcycle,
tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery, or any combination thereof.
51.02   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any person to store, accumulate, or allow to remain on any
private property within the corporate limits of the City any junk or junk
vehicle.
51.03   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES A NUISANCE.
It is hereby declared that any junk or junk vehicle located upon private
property, unless excepted by Section
51.04, constitutes a threat to the health and safety of the citizens and is a
nuisance within the meaning of Section 657.1 of the Code of Iowa.  If any junk
or junk vehicle is kept upon private property in violation hereof, the owner of
or person occupying the property upon which it is located shall be prima facie
liable for said violation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
51.04   EXCEPTIONS.
The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any junk or a junk vehicle
stored within:
   1.   Structure.  A garage or other enclosed structure; or
   2.   Salvage Yard.  An auto salvage yard or junk yard lawfully operated
within the City.
51.05   NOTICE TO ABATE.
Upon discovery of any junk or junk vehicle located upon private property in
violation of Section
51.03, the City shall within five days initiate abatement procedures as
outlined in
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
CHAPTER 52
WEEDS
 
52.01  Definitions                    52.04  Failure to Comply
52.02  Weeds Constitute Health Hazard 52.05  Authority to Enter Land
52.03  Duty of Owner to Cut or Destroy52.06  Duty of Owner to Maintain Parking
 
52.01   DEFINITIONS.
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Owner” means the record titleholder or titleholders of a premises as
shown by the transfer books at the Plymouth County Auditor’s office.
   2.   “Premises” means any lot, part of a lot, combinations of lots or
parcels of real estate, whether public or private, and including land owned by
any railroad, located within the City upon which weeds are growing.  Premises
shall also specifically include the area between the curb and the adjoining
property line even though title thereto is not held by the owner.
   3.   “Weed” means all noxious weeds as defined by Chapter 317 of the Code of
Iowa, as may be amended from time to time, and all other weeds, grasses, plants
or other growth which have grown to a height exceeding eight inches, except for
trees, ornamental bushes, flowers, garden plants or other ornamental plants
which are commonly allowed to exceed 12 inches in height and which are
therefore not weeds under this definition.  Weeds also means growth that has
not been cut or destroyed by the fifteenth day of May, June, July, August,
September, and October, respectively, of each year.
   4.   “Weed commissioner” means the city building inspector or such other
person as may be designated by the Council from time to time to administer the
City’s weed control program.
52.02   WEEDS CONSTITUTE HEALTH HAZARD.
Weeds defined above are found to be a health, safety and fire hazard as well as
constituting a nuisance, and therefore must be cut or destroyed periodically.
52.03   DUTY OF OWNER TO CUT OR DESTROY.
The owner or owners of each lot and parcel of ground within the corporate
limits of the City shall cut or destroy before they bloom or seed and in any
event, by the fifteenth day of the months of May, June, July, August,
September, and October, respectively, of each year all weeds as defined above.
52.04   FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   1.   In the event the owner of any lot or parcel of ground neglects or fails
to comply with the provisions of Section
52.03, the weed commissioner or such other person as may be designated by the
Council shall proceed to mow, cut or remove the weeds as required by Section
52.03 and report the actual cost of the labor and material to the Council.
   2.   Upon the approval of the report by the Council, the Clerk shall
forthwith send a statement for such actual cost together with an additional 10
percent thereof for administrative costs, but in any event, not less than a
total charge of $50.00 to the owner or owners at the address used for mailing
of tax statements.  If this statement is not paid within 30 days, the Council
may, by resolution, levy and assess the aforesaid charges against the lot or
parcel of land and in such event, the resolution shall be certified by the
Clerk to the County Treasurer and be entered upon the books of the County
Treasurer as a charge against the property and the owner or owners thereof, to
be paid and collected in the same manner as property taxes.
   3.   The charges set forth above, plus attorney’s fees and all other costs
incurred to collect the charges, may also be collected by suit or otherwise in
the name of the City against the owner or owners, and all such charges, costs,
and expenses collected shall be placed in the General Fund of the City.
52.05   AUTHORITY TO ENTER LAND.
   1.   In case of substantial failure by the owner or party in possession or
control of any land to comply with this chapter, the City Building Inspector or
such other person as may be designated by the Council shall have full power and
authority to enter upon any land within the City for the purpose of destroying
any weeds, vines, brush or other growth which constitutes a health, safety or
fire hazard.
   2.   Such entry may be made without the consent of the owner or person in
possession or control of the land.
52.06   DUTY OF OWNER TO MAINTAIN PARKING.
   1.   “Parking” means that part of the street or avenue or highway in the
City not covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and the curb or the
edge of the traveled way in the absence of the curb.
   2.   It shall be the duty of the abutting property owner to maintain the
parking free of obstructions or depressions which might be injurious to the
general public.
   3.   In the event the abutting owner fails to maintain the property as
required by Subsection 2 of this section, the weed commissioner or such other
person as may be designated by the Council shall proceed against the abutting
property owner pursuant to the provisions set forth in Section
52.04.
CHAPTER 55
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND CONTROL
55.01  Definitions             55.10  Rabies Vaccination
55.02  Animal Neglect          55.11  Owner’s Duty
55.03  Livestock Neglect       55.12  Confinement
55.04  Abandonment of Cats and 55.13  At Large: Impoundment
Dogs
55.05  Livestock               55.14  Disposition of Animals
55.06  At Large Prohibited     55.15  Impounding Costs
55.07  Damage or Interference  55.16  Pet Awards Prohibited
55.08  Annoyance or Disturbance55.17  Tampering With A Rabies Vaccination
                                Tag
55.09  Vicious Dogs            55.18  Tampering With An Electronic Handling
                                Device
 
55.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
   1.   “Advertise” means to present a commercial message in any medium,
including (but not limited to) print, radio, television, sign, display, label,
tag, or articulation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   2.   “Animal” means a nonhuman vertebrate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.1)
   3.   “Animal shelter” means a facility which is used to house or contain
dogs or cats, or both, and which is owned, operated, or maintained by an
incorporated humane society, animal welfare society, society for the prevention
of cruelty to animals, or other nonprofit organization devoted to the welfare,
protection, and humane treatment of such animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
   4.   “At large” means off the premises of the owner and not under the
control of a competent person, restrained within a motor vehicle, or housed in
a veterinary hospital or kennel.
   5.   “Business” means any enterprise relating to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
      A.   The sale or offer for sale of goods or services.
      B.   A recruitment for employment or membership in an organization.
      C.   A solicitation to make an investment.
      D.   An amusement or entertainment activity.
   6.   “Commercial establishment” means an animal shelter, boarding kennel,
commercial breeder, commercial kennel, dealer, pet shop, pound, public auction,
or research facility.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
   7.   “Fair” means any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
      A.   The annual fair and exposition held by the Iowa State Fair Board
pursuant to Chapter 173 of the Code of Iowa or any fair event conducted by a
fair under the provisions of Chapter 174 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   An exhibition of agricultural or manufactured products.
      C.   An event for operation of amusement rides or devices or concession
booths.
   8.   “Game” means a “game of chance” or “game of skill” as defined in
Section 99B.1 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   9.   “Injury” means an animal’s disfigurement; the impairment of an animal’s
health; or an impairment to the functioning of an animal’s limb or organ, or
the loss of an animal’s limb or organ.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
   10.   “Livestock” means an animal belonging to the bovine, caprine, equine,
ovine or porcine species, ostriches, rheas, and emus; farm deer (as defined in
Section 170.1 of the Code of Iowa); or poultry.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.1)
   11.   “Owner” means any person owning, keeping, sheltering, or harboring an
animal.
   12.   “Pet” means a living dog, cat, or an animal normally maintained in a
small tank or cage in or near a residence, including but not limited to a
rabbit, gerbil, hamster, mouse, parrot, canary, mynah, finch, tropical fish,
goldfish, snake, turtle, gecko, or iguana.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   13.   “Pound” means a facility for the prevention of cruelty to animals
operated by the State, a municipal corporation, or other political subdivision
of the State for the purpose of impounding or harboring seized stray, homeless,
abandoned, or unwanted dogs, cats, or other animals; or a facility operated for
such a purpose under a contract with any municipal corporation or incorporated
society.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
   14.   “Research facility” means any school or college of medicine,
veterinary medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, or osteopathic medicine, or hospital,
diagnostic or research laboratories, or other educational or scientific
establishment situated in the State concerned with the investigation of, or
instruction concerning the structure or function of living organisms, the
cause, prevention, control, or cure of diseases or abnormal conditions of human
beings or animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
   15.   “Veterinarian” means a veterinarian licensed pursuant to Chapter 169
of the Code of Iowa who practices veterinary medicine in the State.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
55.02   ANIMAL NEGLECT.
   1.   It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of an animal and
confines that animal to fail to provide the animal with any of the following
conditions for the animal’s welfare:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.3)
      A.   Access to food in an amount and quality reasonably sufficient to
satisfy the animal’s basic nutrition level to the extent that the animal’s
health or life is endangered.
      B.   Access to a supply of potable water in an amount reasonably
sufficient to satisfy the animal’s basic hydration level to the extent that the
animal’s health or life is endangered.  Access to snow or ice does not satisfy
this requirement.
      C.   Sanitary conditions free from excessive animal waste or the
overcrowding of animals to the extent that the animal’s health or life is
endangered.
      D.   Ventilated shelter reasonably sufficient to provide adequate
protection from the elements and weather conditions suitable for the age,
species, and physical condition of the animal so as to maintain the animal in a
state of good health to the extent that the animal’s health or life is
endangered.  The shelter must protect the animal from wind, rain, snow, or sun
and have adequate bedding to provide reasonable protection against cold and
dampness.  A shelter may include a residence, garage, barn, shed, or doghouse.
      E.   Grooming, to the extent it is reasonably necessary to prevent
adverse health effects or suffering.
      F.   Veterinary care deemed necessary by a reasonably prudent person to
relieve an animal’s distress from any of the following:
         (1)   A condition caused by failing to provide for the animal’s
welfare as described in this section.
         (2)   An injury or illness suffered by the animal causing the animal
to suffer prolonged pain and suffering.
   2.   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      A.   A person operating a commercial establishment under a valid
authorization issued or renewed under Section 162.2A of the Code of Iowa, or a
person acting under the direction or supervision of that person, if all of the
following apply: 
         (1)   The animal, as described in Subsection 1, was maintained as part
of the commercial establishment’s operation.
         (2)   In providing conditions for the welfare of the animal, as
described in Subsection 1, the person complied with the standard of care
requirements provided in Section 162.10A[1] of the Code of Iowa, including any
applicable rules adopted by the Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship
applying to:  (i) a State licensee or registrant operating pursuant to Section
162.10A[2a] or [2b] of the Code of Iowa; or (ii) a permittee operating pursuant
to Section 162.10A[2c] of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   A research facility if the research facility has been issued or
renewed a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and Land
Stewardship pursuant to Chapter 162of the Code of Iowa, and performs functions
within the scope of accepted practices and disciplines associated with the
research facility.
55.03   LIVESTOCK NEGLECT.
It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines livestock in any place to
fail to provide the livestock with care consistent with customary animal
husbandry practices or to deprive the livestock of necessary sustenance or to
injure or destroy livestock by any means that causes pain or suffering in a
manner inconsistent with customary animal husbandry practices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.2)
55.04   ABANDONMENT OF CATS AND DOGS.
It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of a cat or dog to
relinquish all rights in and duties to care for the cat or dog.  This section
does not apply to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.8)
   1.   The delivery of a cat or dog to another person who will accept
ownership and custody of the cat or dog.
   2.   The delivery of a cat or dog to an animal shelter or that has been
issued or renewed a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and
Land Stewardship under Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa.
   3.   A person who relinquishes custody of a cat at a location in which the
person does not hold a legal or equitable interest, if previously the person
had taken custody of the cat at the same location and provided for the cat’s
sterilization by a veterinarian.
55.05   LIVESTOCK.
It is unlawful for a person to keep livestock within the City except by written
consent of the Council or except in compliance with the City’s zoning
regulations.
55.06   AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any owner to allow an animal to run at large within the
corporate limits of the City.
55.07   DAMAGE OR INTERFERENCE.
It is unlawful for the owner of an animal to allow or permit such animal to
pass upon the premises of another thereby causing damage to, or interference
with, the premises.
55.08   ANNOYANCE OR DISTURBANCE.
It is unlawful for the owner of a dog to allow or permit such dog to cause
serious annoyance or disturbance to any person by frequent and habitual
howling, yelping, barking, or otherwise, or by running after or chasing
persons, bicycles, automobiles or other vehicles.
55.09   VICIOUS DOGS.
It is unlawful for any person to harbor or keep a vicious dog within the City. 
A dog is deemed to be vicious when it has attacked or bitten any person without
provocation, or when propensity to attack or bite persons exists and is known
or ought reasonably to be known to the owner.
55.10   RABIES VACCINATION.
Every owner of a dog shall obtain a rabies vaccination for such animal.  It is
unlawful for any person to own or have a dog in said person’s possession, six
months of age or over, which has not been vaccinated against rabies.  Dogs kept
in State or federally licensed kennels and not allowed to run at large are not
subject to these vaccination requirements.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.33)
55.11   OWNER’S DUTY.
It is the duty of the owner of any dog, cat, or other animal that has bitten or
attacked a person or any person having knowledge of such bite or attack to
report this act to a local health or law enforcement official.  It is the duty
of physicians and veterinarians to report to the local board of health the
existence of any animal known or suspected to be suffering from rabies.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.38)
55.12   CONFINEMENT.
If a local board of health receives information that an animal has bitten a
person or that a dog or animal is suspected of having rabies, the board shall
order the owner to confine such animal in the manner it directs.  If the owner
fails to confine such animal in the manner directed, the animal shall be
apprehended and impounded by such board, and after 10 days the board may
humanely destroy the animal.  If such animal is returned to its owner, the
owner shall pay the cost of impoundment.  This section does not apply if a
police service dog or a horse used by a law enforcement agency and acting in
the performance of its duties has bitten a person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.39)
55.13   AT LARGE: IMPOUNDMENT.
Animals found at large in violation of this chapter shall be seized and
impounded, or at the discretion of the peace officer, the owner may be served a
summons to appear before a proper court to answer charges made thereunder.
55.14   DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
When an animal has been apprehended and impounded, written notice shall be
provided to the owner within two days after impoundment, if the owner’s name
and current address can reasonably be determined by accessing a tag or other
device that is on or part of the animal.  Impounded animals may be recovered by
the owner upon payment of impounding costs, and if an unvaccinated dog, by
having it immediately vaccinated.  If the owner fails to redeem the animal
within seven days from the date that the notice is mailed, or if the owner
cannot be located within seven days, the animal shall be disposed of in
accordance with law or destroyed by euthanasia.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.37, 351.41)
55.15   IMPOUNDING COSTS.
Impounding costs are as follows:
   1.   Capture and transportation:  $50.00 plus the cost of transportation.
   2.   Actual expenses advanced by the City pursuant to contract for care of
said animals.
   3.   Surcharge computed on the basis of repeated impounding within a 12-
month period in accordance with the following scale:
      A.   First – none;
      B.   Second or third – $10.00;
      C.   Four or more – $20.00.
55.16   PET AWARDS PROHIBITED.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 717E)
   1.   Prohibition.  It is unlawful for any person to award a pet or advertise
that a pet may be awarded as any of the following:
      A.   A prize for participating in a game.
      B.   A prize for participating in a fair.
      C.   An inducement or condition for visiting a place of business or
attending an event sponsored by a business.
      D.   An inducement or condition for executing a contract that includes
provisions unrelated to the ownership, care or disposition of the pet.
   2.   Exceptions.  This section does not apply to any of the following:
      A.   A pet shop licensed pursuant to Section 162.5 of the Code of Iowa if
the award of a pet is provided in connection with the sale of a pet on the
premises of the pet shop.
      B.   Youth programs associated with 4-H Clubs; Future Farmers of America;
the Izaak Walton League of America; or organizations associated with outdoor
recreation, hunting or fishing, including but not limited to the Iowa
Sportsmen’s Federation.
55.17   TAMPERING WITH A RABIES VACCINATION TAG.
It is unlawful to tamper with a rabies vaccination tag.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.45)
   1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with a rabies vaccination tag
if all of the following apply:
      A.   The person knowingly removes, damages, or destroys a rabies
vaccination tag as described in Section 351.35 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   The rabies vaccination tag is attached to a collar worn by a dog,
including as provided in Sections 351.25 and 351.26 of the Code of Iowa.
   2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
      A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized
to take action by the owner.
      B.   A peace officer.
      C.   A veterinarian.
      D.   An animal shelter or pound.
55.18   TAMPERING WITH AN ELECTRONIC HANDLING DEVICE.
It is unlawful to tamper with an electronic handling device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.46)
   1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with an electronic handling
device if all of the following apply:
      A.   The person knowingly removes, disables, or destroys an electronic
device designed and used to maintain custody or control of the dog or modify
the dog’s behavior.
      B.   The electronic device is attached to or worn by the dog or attached
to an item worn by the dog, including (but not limited to) a collar, harness,
or vest.
   2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
      A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized
to take action by the owner.
      B.   A peace officer.
      C.   A veterinarian.
      D.   An animal shelter or pound.
CHAPTER 56
DOG AND CAT LICENSES REQUIRED
 
56.01  Annual License Required56.06  Immunization
56.02  License Fees           56.07  Duplicate Tags
56.03  Delinquency            56.08  Transfers of Licensed Dogs and Cats
56.04  License Tags           56.09  Kennel Dogs
56.05  License Records
 
56.01   ANNUAL LICENSE REQUIRED.
   1.   Every owner of a dog or cat over the age of six months shall procure a
dog license from the Clerk on or before May 1 of each year.
   2.   Such license may be procured after May 1 and at any time for a dog or
cat that has come into the possession or ownership of the applicant or that has
reached the age of six months after said date.
   3.   The owner of a dog or cat for which a license is required shall apply
to the Clerk on forms provided by the Clerk.
   4.   The form of the application shall state the breed, sex, age, color,
markings, and name, if any, of the dog or cat, and the address of the owner and
shall be signed by the owner.  The application shall also state the date of the
most recent rabies vaccination, the type of vaccine administered and the date
the dog or cat shall be revaccinated.
   5.   All licenses shall expire on May 1 of the year following the date of
issuance.
56.02   LICENSE FEES.
The annual license fee shall be as established by resolution of the Council.
56.03   DELINQUENCY.
All license fees shall become delinquent on July 1 of the year in which they
are due and a delinquent penalty of $3.00 shall be added to each unpaid license
on and after said date.
56.04   LICENSE TAGS.
Upon receipt of the application and fee, the Clerk shall deliver or mail to the
owner a license that shall be in the form of a metal tag stamped with the
serial number of the license as shown on the record book of the Clerk, the year
in which it is issued, and the name of the City.  The license tag shall be
securely fastened by the owner to a collar or harness that shall be worn at all
times by the dog or cat for which issued.  A license issued for one dog or cat
shall not be transferable to another animal.  Upon the expiration of the
license, the owner shall remove said tag from the dog or cat.
56.05   LICENSE RECORDS.
The Clerk shall keep a book to be known as the record of licenses; such record
shall show:
   1.   The serial number and date of each application for a license.
   2.   The description of the dog as specified in the application, together
with the name of the owner of the dog or cat.
   3.   The date when each license tag is issued and the serial number of each
tag, the date of the most recent rabies vaccination, the type of vaccine
administered, and the date the dog or cat shall be revaccinated.
   4.   The amount of all fees paid.
   5.   Such other data as may be required by law.
56.06   IMMUNIZATION.
Before a license is issued, the owner shall furnish a veterinarian’s
certificate showing that the dog for which the license is sought has been
vaccinated against rabies, and that the vaccination does not expire within six
months from the effective date of the license.  A tag showing evidence of
proper vaccination shall at all times be attached to the collar of the dog or
cat.
56.07   DUPLICATE TAGS.
Upon the filing of an affidavit that the license tag has been lost or
destroyed, the owner may obtain another tag on the payment of $5.00 and the
Clerk shall enter in the license record the new number assigned.
56.08   TRANSFERS OF LICENSED DOGS AND CATS.
Upon transfer of a licensed dog or cat into the City, the owner shall surrender
the original license tag to the Clerk.  The Clerk shall preserve the
surrendered tag and, without a license fee, issue a new license tag.
56.09   KENNEL DOGS.
Dogs kept in State or federally licensed kennels, which are kept or raised
solely for the bona fide purpose of sale and which are kept under constant
restraint, are not subject to the provisions of this chapter.
CHAPTER 60
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE
 
60.01  Title                         60.05  Reports of Traffic Accidents
60.02  Definitions                   60.06  Peace Officer’s Authority
60.03  Administration and Enforcement60.07  Obedience to Peace Officers
60.04  Power to Direct Traffic       60.08  Parades Regulated
 
60.01   TITLE.
Chapters 60 through 70 of this Code of Ordinances may be known and cited as the
“Kingsley Traffic Code” (and are referred to herein as the “Traffic Code.”)
60.02   DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in the Traffic Code are defined by State law, such
definitions apply to their use in said Traffic Code and are adopted by
reference.  Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, have the following
meanings:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)
   1.   “Business District” means both sides of Main Street from First Street
north to Third Street and both sides of Second Street from Dover Street east to
Burlington Street.
   2.   “Park” or “parking” means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   3.   “Peace officer” means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   4.   “Residence district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway not comprising a business, suburban or school district, where 40
percent or more of the frontage on such a highway for a distance of 300 feet or
more is occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings in use for
business.
   5.   “School district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway for a distance of 200 feet in either direction from a schoolhouse.
   6.   “Stand” or “standing” means the halting of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
   7.   “Stop” means when required, the complete cessation of movement.
   8.   “Stop” or “stopping” means when prohibited, any halting of a vehicle,
even momentarily, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control sign or signal.
   9.   “Suburban district” means all other parts of the City not included in
the business, school, or residence districts.
   10.   “Traffic control device” means all signs, signals, markings, and
devices not inconsistent with this chapter, lawfully placed or erected for the
purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
   11.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, street, or
alley.
60.03   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
Provisions of this Traffic Code and State law relating to motor vehicles and
law of the road are enforced by the Police Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
60.04   POWER TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
A peace officer or, in the absence of a peace officer, any officer of the Fire
Department when at the scene of a fire, is authorized to direct all traffic by
voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws.  In the event of an
emergency, traffic may be directed as conditions require, notwithstanding the
provisions of the traffic laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.4 & 321.236[2])
60.05   REPORTS OF TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS.
The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident within the limits of the City
shall file a report as and when required by the Iowa Department of
Transportation.  A copy of this report shall be filed with the City for the
confidential use of peace officers and shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 321.271 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.273)
60.06   PEACE OFFICER’S AUTHORITY.
A peace officer is authorized to stop a vehicle to require exhibition of the
driver’s license of the driver, to serve a summons or memorandum of traffic
violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to inspect the vehicle with
reference to size, weight, cargo, log book, bills of lading or other manifest
of employment, tires and safety equipment, or to inspect the registration
certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or permit of such
vehicle.  A peace officer having probable cause to stop a vehicle may require
exhibition of the proof of financial liability coverage card issued for the
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.492)
60.07   OBEDIENCE TO PEACE OFFICERS.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control or regulate traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.229)
60.08   PARADES REGULATED.
No person shall conduct or cause any parade on any street except as provided
herein:
   1.   Definition.  “Parade” means any march or procession of persons or
vehicles organized for marching or moving on the streets in an organized
fashion or manner or any march or procession of persons or vehicles represented
or advertised to the public as a parade.
   2.   Approval Required.  No parade shall be conducted without first
obtaining approval from the Council.  The person organizing or sponsoring the
parade shall provide information concerning the time and date for the parade
and the streets or general route therefor, and any approval given to such
person includes all participants in the parade, provided they have been invited
to participate.
   3.   Parade Not a Street Obstruction.  Any parade for which approval has
been given and the persons lawfully participating therein shall not be deemed
an obstruction of the streets, notwithstanding the provisions of any other
ordinance to the contrary.
   4.   Control by Peace Officers and Firefighters.  Persons participating in
any parade shall at all times be subject to the lawful orders and directions in
the performance of their duties of law enforcement personnel and members of the
Fire Department.
CHAPTER 61
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
 
61.01  Installation 61.04  Standards
61.02  Crosswalks   61.05  Compliance
61.03  Traffic Lanes
 
61.01   INSTALLATION.
The City Maintenance Department shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic
control devices when and as required under this Traffic Code or under State law
or emergency or temporary traffic control devices for the duration of an
emergency or temporary condition as traffic conditions may require to regulate,
guide or warn traffic.  The Police Chief shall keep a record of all such
traffic control devices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.02   CROSSWALKS.
The City Maintenance Department is hereby authorized, subject to approval of
the Council by resolution, to designate and maintain crosswalks by appropriate
traffic control devices at intersections where, due to traffic conditions,
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street or roadway, and
at such other places as traffic conditions require.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] & 321.255)
61.03   TRAFFIC LANES.
The City Maintenance Department is hereby authorized to mark lanes for traffic
on street pavements at such places as traffic conditions require, consistent
with this Traffic Code.  Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is
unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle
within the boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another
vehicle or preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] & 321.255)
61.04   STANDARDS.
Traffic control devices shall comply with standards established by The Manual
of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.05   COMPLIANCE.
No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official traffic
control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, unless
at the time otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject to the exceptions
granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under Section 321.231 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
CHAPTER 62
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
 
62.01  Violation of Regulations62.05  Quiet Zones
62.02  Play Streets Designated 62.06  Obstructing View at Intersections
62.03  Vehicles on Sidewalks   62.07  Engine Brakes and Compression Brakes
62.04  Clinging to Vehicle
 
62.01   VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
Any person who willfully fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order of a
peace officer or direction of a Fire Department officer during a fire, or who
fails to abide by the applicable provisions of the following Iowa statutory
laws relating to motor vehicles and the statutory law of the road is in
violation of this section.  These sections of the Code of Iowa are adopted by
reference and are as follows:
   1.   Section 321.17 – Misdemeanor to violate registration provisions.
   2.   Section 321.32 – Registration card, carried and exhibited; exception.
   3.   Section 321.37 – Display of plates.
   4.   Section 321.38 – Plates, method of attaching, imitations prohibited.
   5.   Section 321.57 – Operation under special plates.
   6.   Section 321.67 – Certificate of title must be executed.
   7.   Section 321.78 – Injuring or tampering with vehicle.
   8.   Section 321.79 – Intent to injure.
   9.   Section 321.91 – Penalty for abandonment.
   10.   Section 321.98 – Operation without registration.
   11.   Section 321.99 – Fraudulent use of registration.
   12.   Section 321.104 – Penal offenses against title law.
   13.   Section 321.115 – Antique vehicles; model year plates permitted.
   14.   Section 321.174 – Operators licensed.
   15.   Section 321.174A – Operation of motor vehicles with expired license.
   16.   Section 321.180 – Instruction permits.
   17.   Section 321.180B – Graduated driver’s licenses for persons aged
fourteen through seventeen.
   18.   Section 321.193 – Restricted licenses.
   19.   Section 321.194 – Special minor’s licenses.
   20.   Section 321.208A – Operation in violation of out-of-service order.
   21.   Section 321.216 – Unlawful use of license and nonoperator’s
identification card.
   22.   Section 321.216B – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain alcohol.
   23.   Section 321.216C – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain cigarettes or tobacco
products.
   24.   Section 321.218 – Operating without valid driver’s license or when
disqualified.
   25.   Section 321.219 – Permitting unauthorized minor to drive.
   26.   Section 321.220 – Permitting unauthorized person to drive.
   27.   Section 321.221 – Employing unlicensed chauffeur.
   28.   Section 321.222 – Renting motor vehicle to another.
   29.   Section 321.223 – License inspected.
   30.   Section 321.224 – Record kept.
   31.   Section 321.232 – Speed detection jamming devices; penalty.
   32.   Section 321.234A – All-terrain vehicles.
   33.   Section 321.235A – Electric personal assistive mobility devices.
   34.   Section 321.247 – Golf cart operation on City streets.
   35.   Section 321.257 – Official traffic control signal.
   36.   Section 321.259 – Unauthorized signs, signals or markings.
   37.   Section 321.260 – Interference with devices, signs or signals;
unlawful possession.
   38.   Section 321.262 – Leaving scene of traffic accident prohibited;
vehicle damage only; removal of vehicles.
   39.   Section 321.263 – Information and aid.
   40.   Section 321.264 – Striking unattended vehicle.
   41.   Section 321.265 – Striking fixtures upon a highway.
   42.   Section 321.266 – Reporting accidents.
   43.   Section 321.275 – Operation of motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
   44.   Section 321.276 – Use of electronic communication device while
driving; text-messaging.
   45.   Section 321.277 – Reckless driving.
   46.   Section 321.277A – Careless driving.
   47.   Section 321.278 – Drag racing prohibited.
   48.   Section 321.281 – Actions against bicyclists.
   49.   Section 321.284 – Open container; drivers.
   50.   Section 321.284A – Open container; passengers.
   51.   Section 321.288 – Control of vehicle; reduced speed.
   52.   Section 321.295 – Limitation on bridge or elevated structures.
   53.   Section 321.297 – Driving on right-hand side of roadways; exceptions.
   54.   Section 321.298 – Meeting and turning to right.
   55.   Section 321.299 – Overtaking a vehicle.
   56.   Section 321.302 – Overtaking and passing.
   57.   Section 321.303 – Limitations on overtaking on the left.
   58.   Section 321.304 – Prohibited passing.
   59.   Section 321.306 – Roadways laned for traffic.
   60.   Section 321.307 – Following too closely.
   61.   Section 321.308 – Motor trucks and towed vehicles; distance
requirements.
   62.   Section 321.309 – Towing; convoys; drawbars.
   63.   Section 321.310 – Towing four-wheel trailers.
   64.   Section 321.312 – Turning on curve or crest of grade.
   65.   Section 321.313 – Starting parked vehicle.
   66.   Section 321.314 – When signal required.
   67.   Section 321.315 – Signal continuous.
   68.   Section 321.316 – Stopping.
   69.   Section 321.317 – Signals by hand and arm or signal device.
   70.   Section 321.318 – Method of giving hand and arm signals.
   71.   Section 321.319 – Entering intersections from different highways.
   72.   Section 321.320 – Left turns; yielding.
   73.   Section 321.321 – Entering through highways.
   74.   Section 321.322 – Vehicles entering stop or yield intersection.
   75.   Section 321.323 – Moving vehicle backward on highway.
   76.   Section 321.323A – Approaching certain stationary vehicles.
   77.   Section 321.324 – Operation on approach of emergency vehicles.
   78.   Section 321.324A – Funeral processions.
   79.   Section 321.329 – Duty of driver; pedestrians crossing or working on
highways.
   80.   Section 321.330 – Use of crosswalks.
   81.   Section 321.332 – White canes restricted to blind persons.
   82.   Section 321.333 – Duty of drivers approaching blind persons.
   83.   Section 321.340 – Driving through safety zone.
   84.   Section 321.341 – Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad
train or railroad track equipment.
   85.   Section 321.342 – Stop at certain railroad crossings; posting warning.
   86.   Section 321.343 – Certain vehicles must stop.
   87.   Section 321.344 – Heavy equipment at crossing.
   88.   Section 321.344B – Immediate safety threat; penalty.
   89.   Section 321.354 – Stopping on traveled way.
   90.   Section 321.359 – Moving other vehicle.
   91.   Section 321.362 – Unattended motor vehicle.
   92.   Section 321.363 – Obstruction to driver’s view.
   93.   Section 321.364 – Vehicles shipping food; preventing contamination by
hazardous material.
   94.   Section 321.365 – Coasting prohibited.
   95.   Section 321.367 – Following fire apparatus.
   96.   Section 321.368 – Crossing fire hose.
   97.   Section 321.369 – Putting debris on highway.
   98.   Section 321.370 – Removing injurious material.
   99.   Section 321.371 – Clearing up wrecks.
   100.   Section 321.372 – School buses.
   101.   Section 321.381 – Movement of unsafe or improperly equipped vehicles.
   102.   Section 321.381A – Operation of low-speed vehicles.
   103.   Section 321.382 – Upgrade pulls; minimum speed.
   104.   Section 321.383 – Exceptions; slow vehicles identified.
   105.   Section 321.384 – When lighted lamps required.
   106.   Section 321.385 – Head lamps on motor vehicles.
   107.   Section 321.386 – Head lamps on motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
   108.   Section 321.387 – Rear lamps.
   109.   Section 321.388 – Illuminating plates.
   110.   Section 321.389 – Reflector requirement.
   111.   Section 321.390 – Reflector requirements.
   112.   Section 321.392 – Clearance and identification lights.
   113.   Section 321.393 – Color and mounting.
   114.   Section 321.394 – Lamp or flag on projecting load.
   115.   Section 321.395 – Lamps on parked vehicles.
   116.   Section 321.398 – Lamps on other vehicles and equipment.
   117.   Section 321.402 – Spot lamps.
   118.   Section 321.403 – Auxiliary driving lamps.
   119.   Section 321.404 – Signal lamps and signal devices.
   120.   Section 321.404A – Light-restricting devices prohibited.
   121.   Section 321.405 – Self-illumination.
   122.   Section 321.408 – Back-up lamps.
   123.   Section 321.409 – Mandatory lighting equipment.
   124.   Section 321.415 – Required usage of lighting devices.
   125.   Section 321.417 – Single-beam road-lighting equipment.
   126.   Section 321.418 – Alternate road-lighting equipment.
   127.   Section 321.419 – Number of driving lamps required or permitted.
   128.   Section 321.420 – Number of lamps lighted.
   129.   Section 321.421 – Special restrictions on lamps.
   130.   Section 321.422 – Red light in front.
   131.   Section 321.423 – Flashing lights.
   132.   Section 321.430 – Brake, hitch, and control requirements.
   133.   Section 321.431 – Performance ability.
   134.   Section 321.432 – Horns and warning devices.
   135.   Section 321.433 – Sirens, whistles, and bells prohibited.
   136.   Section 321.434 – Bicycle sirens or whistles.
   137.   Section 321.436 – Mufflers, prevention of noise.
   138.   Section 321.437 – Mirrors.
   139.   Section 321.438 – Windshields and windows.
   140.   Section 321.439 – Windshield wipers.
   141.   Section 321.440 – Restrictions as to tire equipment.
   142.   Section 321.441 – Metal tires prohibited.
   143.   Section 321.442 – Projections on wheels.
   144.   Section 321.444 – Safety glass.
   145.   Section 321.445 – Safety belts and safety harnesses; use required.
   146.   Section 321.446 – Child restraint devices.
   147.   Section 321.449 – Motor carrier safety regulations.
   148.   Section 321.449A – Rail crew transport drivers.
   149.   Section 321.449B – Texting or using a mobile telephone while
operating a commercial motor vehicle.
   150.   Section 321.450 – Hazardous materials transportation.
   151.   Section 321.454 – Width of vehicles.
   152.   Section 321.455 – Projecting loads on passenger vehicles.
   153.   Section 321.456 – Height of vehicles; permits.
   154.   Section 321.457 – Maximum length.
   155.   Section 321.458 – Loading beyond front.
   156.   Section 321.460 – Spilling loads on highways.
   157.   Section 321.461 – Trailers and towed vehicles.
   158.   Section 321.462 – Drawbars and safety chains.
   159.   Section 321.463 – Maximum gross weight.
   160.   Section 321.465 – Weighing vehicles and removal of excess.
   161.   Section 321.466 – Increased loading capacity; reregistration.
62.02   PLAY STREETS DESIGNATED.
The Police Chief shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a
play street and cause to be placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway
indicating and helping to protect the same.  Whenever authorized signs are
erected indicating any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall
drive a vehicle upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of
vehicles having business or whose residences are within such closed area, and
then any said driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such
street or portion thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
62.03   VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk area except
at a driveway.
62.04   CLINGING TO VEHICLE.
No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of the City unless all
passengers of said vehicle are inside the vehicle in the place intended for
their accommodation.  No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller
skates, in-line skates, sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself
or herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
62.05   QUIET ZONES.
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
62.06   OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS.
It is unlawful to allow any tree, hedge, billboard, or other object to obstruct
the view of an intersection by preventing persons from having a clear view of
traffic approaching the intersection from cross streets.  Any such obstruction
is deemed a nuisance and in addition to the standard penalty may be abated in
the manner provided by
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
62.07   ENGINE BRAKES AND COMPRESSION BRAKES.
   1.   It is unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate (or for
any person to cause to be used or operated) within the City any engine brake,
compression brake, or mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the braking
or deceleration of any vehicle, which results in excessive, loud, unusual, or
explosive noise from such vehicle.
   2.   The usage of an engine brake, compression brake, or mechanical exhaust
device designed to aid in braking or deceleration in such a manner so as to be
audible at a distance of 300 feet from the motor vehicle shall constitute
evidence of a prima facie violation of this section.
CHAPTER 63
SPEED REGULATIONS
 
63.01  General                            63.04  Special Speed Zones
63.02  State Code Speed Limits            63.05  Minimum Speed
63.03  Parks, Cemeteries, and Parking Lots
 
63.01   GENERAL.
Every driver of a motor vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a careful
and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and proper,
having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and of any
other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle on any
street at a speed greater than will permit said driver to bring it to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right to
assume, however, that all persons using said street will observe the law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.285)
63.02   STATE CODE SPEED LIMITS.
The following speed limits are established in Section 321.285 of the Code of
Iowa and any speed in excess thereof is unlawful unless specifically designated
otherwise in this chapter as a special speed zone.
   1.   Business District – 20 miles per hour.
   2.   Residence or School District – 25 miles per hour.
   3.   Suburban District – 45 miles per hour.
63.03   PARKS, CEMETERIES, AND PARKING LOTS.
A speed in excess of 15 miles per hour in any public park, cemetery, or parking
lot, unless specifically designated otherwise in this chapter, is unlawful.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[5])
63.04   SPECIAL SPEED ZONES.
In accordance with requirements of the Iowa Department of Transportation, or
whenever the Council shall determine upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that any speed limit listed in Section
63.02 is greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found
to exist at any intersection or other place or upon any part of the City street
system, the Council shall determine and adopt by ordinance such higher or lower
speed limit as it deems reasonable and safe at such location.  The following
special speed zones have been established:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.290)
   1.   Special 20 MPH Speed Zones.  A speed in excess of 20 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   On Main Street between First Street and Third Street.
   2.   Special 25 MPH Speed Zones.  A speed in excess of 25 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   On Main Street between Third Street and 100 feet north of Fifth
Street.
   3.   Special 35 MPH Speed Zones.  A speed in excess of 35 miles per hour is
unlawful of any of the following designated street or parts thereof.
      A.   On 330th Street between L-14 and Quest Avenue.
      B.   Quest Avenue between 330th Street and Highway 140.
   4.   Special 45 MPH Speed Zones.  A speed in excess of 45 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   From 1,000 feet west of Tilden Street to 450 feet southwest of Main
Street and 100 feet north of First Street to 700 feet north of Fourth Street.
      B.   From Highway 140 south to 330th Street.
      C.   On Highway 140 beginning 450 feet southwest of Main Street to 200
feet east of Quest Avenue.
      D.   From just east of Easy Street to a point just west of Brookside
Drive. 
   5.   Special 50 MPH Speed Zones.  A speed in excess of 50 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   On Highway 140 beginning 200 feet east of Quest Avenue to 600 feet
west of Quest Avenue.
63.05   MINIMUM SPEED.
A person shall not drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation, or in compliance with law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.294)
CHAPTER 64
TURNING REGULATIONS
 
64.01  Turning at Intersections64.03  Left Turn for Parking
64.02  U-Turns
 
64.01   TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.311)
   1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   2.   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right
half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to depart from the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
   3.   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street
shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection.  A left turn from a one-way street into a two-way
street shall be made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street
being entered upon leaving the intersection.
The Maintenance Department may cause markers, buttons or signs to be placed
within or adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct, as traffic
conditions require, that a different course from that specified above be
traveled by vehicles turning at intersections, and when markers, buttons or
signs are so placed, no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an
intersection other than as directed and required by such markers, buttons or
signs.
64.02   U-TURNS.
It is unlawful for a driver to make a U-turn except at an intersection;
however, U-turns are prohibited within the business district, at the following
designated intersections and at intersections where there are automatic traffic
signals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[9])
   1.   At the intersection of Main Street and Third Street.
   2.   At the intersection of Burlington Street and Second Street.
   3.   At the intersection of Barre Street and Second Street.
64.03   LEFT TURN FOR PARKING.
No person shall make a left hand turn, crossing the centerline of the street,
for the purpose of parking on said street.
CHAPTER 65
STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED
 
65.01  Through Streets             65.06  Stop Before Crossing Sidewalk
65.02  Stop Required               65.07  Stop When Traffic Is Obstructed
65.03  Three-Way Stop Intersections65.08  Yield to Pedestrians in Crosswalks
65.04  Four-Way Stop Intersections
65.05  Yield Required
 
65.01   THROUGH STREETS.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop, unless a yield is permitted by this
chapter, before entering an intersection with the following designated through
streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Highway 140.
65.02   STOP REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Brandon Street.  Vehicles traveling east on Brandon Street shall stop
at the entrance to Colonial Manor between West Third Street and West Fourth
Street.
   2.   Vermont Avenue.  Vehicles traveling north on Vermont Avenue shall stop
at East Fourth Street.
   3.   Meadow Drive.  Vehicles traveling west on Meadow Drive shall stop at
South Main Street.
   4.   Clarendon Street.  Vehicles traveling south on Clarendon Street shall
stop at East Fourth Street.
   5.   Kurtz Drive.  Vehicles traveling west on Kurtz Drive shall stop at
Clarendon Street.
   6.   Myles Lane.  Vehicles traveling west on Myles Lane shall stop at
Clarendon Street.
   7.   Main Street.  Vehicles traveling south on Main Street shall stop at
First Street.
   8.   Main Street.  Vehicles traveling on Main Street shall stop at Fourth
Street.
   9.   330th Street.  Vehicles traveling west on 330th Street shall stop at
Quest Avenue.
   10.   Dover Street.  Vehicles traveling on Dover Street shall stop at West
Third Street.
   11.   Barre Street.  Vehicles traveling north on Barre Street shall stop at
West Third Street.
   12.   West Fourth Street.  Vehicles traveling west on West Fourth Street
shall stop at Brandon Street.
   13.   West Fourth Street.  Vehicles traveling on West Fourth Street shall
stop at Barre Street.
   14.   Easy Street.  Vehicles traveling north on Easy Street shall stop at
Highway 140.
   15.   Burlington Street.  Vehicles traveling on Burlington Street shall stop
at East Third Street.
   16.   Page Street.  Vehicles traveling west on Page Street shall stop at
Vermont Avenue.
   17.   Bayard Street.  Vehicles traveling west on Bayard Street shall stop at
Tilden Street.
   18.   East Fourth Street.  Vehicles traveling on East Fourth Street shall
stop at L-14.
   19.   West Fourth Street.  Vehicles traveling east on West Fourth Street
shall stop at Main Street.
   20.   Southeast View Drive.  Vehicles traveling west on Southeast View Drive
shall stop at South Main Street.
   21.   South Main Street.  Vehicles traveling north on South Main Street
shall stop at Bayard Street.
   22.   South Main Street.  Vehicles traveling south on South Main Street
shall stop at Bayard Street.
65.03   THREE-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the following designated
three-way stop intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   West Second Street and Dover Street.  Vehicles approaching the
intersection of West Second Street and Dover Street from the north, south, and
east shall stop before entering such intersection.
65.04   FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the following designated
four-way stop intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Intersection of East Fourth Street and Rutland Street.
   2.   Intersection of West Second Street, Brandon Street and Park Drive.
65.05   YIELD REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall yield in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
- NONE -
65.06   STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK.
The driver of a vehicle emerging from a private roadway, alley, driveway, or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk
area and thereafter shall proceed into the sidewalk area only when able to do
so without danger to pedestrian traffic and shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicular traffic on the street into which the vehicle is entering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.353)
65.07   STOP WHEN TRAFFIC IS OBSTRUCTED.
Notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed, no driver
shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient
space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the
vehicle.
65.08   YIELD TO PEDESTRIANS IN CROSSWALKS.
Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver of a
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need be, to
yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk or
within any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.327)
CHAPTER 66
LOAD AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
 
66.01  Temporary Embargo66.02  Permits for Excess Size and Weight
 
66.01   TEMPORARY EMBARGO.
If the Council declares an embargo when it appears by reason of deterioration,
rain, snow or other climatic conditions that certain streets will be seriously
damaged or destroyed by vehicles weighing in excess of an amount specified by
the signs, no such vehicles shall be operated on streets so designated by such
signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471 & 472)
66.02   PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT.
The Police Chief may, upon application and good cause being shown, issue a
special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move a
vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight or load exceeding the
maximum specified by State law or the City over those streets or bridges named
in the permit which are under the jurisdiction of the City and for which the
City is responsible for maintenance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 & 321E)
CHAPTER 67
PEDESTRIANS
 
67.01  Walking in Street67.03  Pedestrian Crossing
67.02  Hitchhiking      67.04  Use of Sidewalks
 
67.01   WALKING IN STREET.
Pedestrians shall at all times when walking on or along a street, walk on the
left side of the street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.326)
67.02   HITCHHIKING.
No person shall stand in the traveled portion of a street for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the driver of any private vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.331)
67.03   PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.328)
67.04   USE OF SIDEWALKS.
Where sidewalks are provided it is unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along
and upon an adjacent street.
CHAPTER 68
ONE-WAY TRAFFIC
68.01   ONE-WAY TRAFFIC REQUIRED.
Upon the following streets and alleys, vehicular traffic, other than permitted
cross traffic, shall move only in the indicated direction when appropriate
signs are in place.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[4])
- NONE -
CHAPTER 69
PARKING REGULATIONS
 
69.01  Park Adjacent to Curb        69.06  Parking Prohibited
69.02  Parking on One-Way Streets   69.07  Persons with Disabilities Parking
69.03  Angle Parking                69.08  No Parking Zones
69.04  Manner of Angle Parking      69.09  Snow Removal
69.05  Parking for Certain Purposes 69.10  Temporary Parking Zone
Illegal
 
69.01   PARK ADJACENT TO CURB.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with
the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and
with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in the case of angle parking and
vehicles parked on the left-hand side of one-way streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.02   PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle on the left-hand side of a one-way
street other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction
of lawful traffic movement and with the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within
18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in
the case of angle parking.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.03   ANGLE PARKING.
Angle or diagonal parking is permitted only in the following locations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
   1.   Main Street from First Street north to Third Street.
   2.   West Second Street from Barre Street east to Main Street.
   3.   East Third Street from Main Street east to Burlington Street.
69.04   MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
Upon those streets or portions of streets that have been signed or marked for
angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at an angle
to the curb or edge of the roadway or in the center of the roadway as indicated
by such signs and markings.  No part of any vehicle or the load thereon, when
said vehicle is parked within a diagonal parking district, shall extend into
the roadway more than a distance of 16 feet when measured at right angles to
the adjacent curb or edge of roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.05   PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES ILLEGAL.
No person shall park a vehicle upon public property for more than 72 hours,
unless otherwise limited under the provisions of this chapter, or for any of
the following principal purposes:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   1.   Sale.  Displaying such vehicle for sale.
   2.   Repairing.  For lubricating, repairing or for commercial washing of
such vehicle except such repairs as are necessitated by an emergency.
   3.   Advertising.  Displaying advertising.
   4.   Merchandise Sales.  Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a
duly established market place or when so authorized or licensed under this Code
of Ordinances.
69.06   PARKING PROHIBITED.
No one shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
   1.   Crosswalk.  On a crosswalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[5])
   2.   Center Parkway.  On the center parkway or dividing area of any divided
street.  (However, center street parking is allowed within areas designated by
two white painted lines in the following areas: 
      A.   Main Street from First Street north to Third Street.
      B.   West Second Street from Barre Street east to Main Street.
      C.   East Second Street from Main Street east to Burlington Street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   3.   Mailboxes.  Within 20 feet on either side of a mailbox that is so
placed and so equipped as to permit the depositing of mail from vehicles on the
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   4.   Sidewalks.  On or across a sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[1])
   5.   Driveway.  In front of a public or private driveway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[2])
   6.   Intersection.  Within an intersection or within 10 feet of an
intersection of any street or alley.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[3])
   7.   Fire Hydrant.  Within five feet of a fire hydrant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[4])
   8.   Stop Sign or Signal.  Within 10 feet upon the approach to any flashing
beacon, stop or yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[6])
   9.   Railroad Crossing.  Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing, except when parked parallel with such rail and not exhibiting a red
light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[8])
   10.   Fire Station.  Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within 75 feet of said entrance when properly sign posted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[9])
   11.   Excavations.  Alongside or opposite any street excavation or
obstruction when such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[10])
   12.   Double Parking.  On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked
at the edge or curb of a street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[11])
   13.   Hazardous Locations.  When, because of restricted visibility or when
standing or parked vehicles would constitute a hazard to moving traffic, or
when other traffic conditions require, the Council may cause curbs to be
painted with a yellow color and erect no parking or standing signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[13])
   14.   Churches, Nursing Homes and Other Buildings.  A space of 50 feet is
hereby reserved at the side of the street in front of any theatre, auditorium,
hotel having more than 25 sleeping rooms, hospital, nursing home, taxicab
stand, bus depot, church, or other building where large assemblages of people
are being held, within which space, when clearly marked as such, no motor
vehicle shall be left standing, parked or stopped except in taking on or
discharging passengers or freight, and then only for such length of time as is
necessary for such purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.360)
   15.   Alleys.  No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than 10 feet of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person
shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.  The provisions of this
subsection do not apply to a vehicle parked in any alley that is 18 feet wide
or less, provided that said vehicle is parked to deliver goods or services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   16.   Ramps.  In front of a curb cut or ramp which is located on public or
private property in a manner which blocks access to the curb cut or ramp.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[15])
   17.   Area Between Lot Line and Curb Line.  That area of the public way not
covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and the curb line, where
curbing has been installed.
   18.   In More Than One Space.  In any designated parking space so that any
part of the vehicle occupies more than one such space or protrudes beyond the
markings designating such space.
69.07   PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.
The following regulations shall apply to the establishment and use of persons
with disabilities parking spaces:
   1.   Establishment.  Persons with disabilities parking spaces shall be
established and designated in accordance with Chapter 321L of the Code of Iowa
and Iowa Administrative Code, 661-18.  No unauthorized person shall establish
any on-street persons with disabilities parking space without first obtaining
Council approval.
   2.   Improper Use.  The following uses of a persons with disabilities
parking space, located on either public or private property, constitute
improper use of a persons with disabilities parking permit, which is a
violation of this Code of Ordinances:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321L.4[2])
      A.   Use by an operator of a vehicle not displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit.
      B.   Use by an operator of a vehicle displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit but not being used by a person issued a permit or
being transported in accordance with Section 321L.2[1b] of the Code of Iowa.
      C.   Use by a vehicle in violation of the rules adopted under Section
321L.8 of the Code of Iowa.
   3.   Wheelchair Parking Cones.  No person shall use or interfere with a
wheelchair parking cone in violation of the following:
      A.   A person issued a persons with disabilities parking permit must
comply with the requirements of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa when
utilizing a wheelchair parking cone.
      B.   A person shall not interfere with a wheelchair parking cone that is
properly placed under the provisions of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa.
69.08   NO PARKING ZONES.
No one shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any of the following specifically
designated no parking zones except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the direction of a peace officer or traffic
control signal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   1.   On First Street from Brandon Street west to the Kingsley-Pierson School
on both sides of the street.
   2.   On the west side of Brandon Street from First Street and Second Street.
   3.   On the south side of Park Drive directly across from St. Michael’s
Catholic Church.
   4.   On the north side of Second Street, the west 150 feet shall be
designated as no parking.
   5.   The east side of Dover Street between Second Street and Third Street.
   6.   The east side of Barre Street between Second Street and Fourth Street.
   7.   The east side and west side of Main Street from Third Street to Fourth
Street.
   8.   The east side of Main Street between Fourth Street and to the north end
of Main Street.
   9.   The south side of Fourth Street directly across from the Lutheran
Church.
   10.   The east side of Burlington Street from Second Street to the north end
of Burlington Street.
   11.   The east side of Rutland Street between Second Street and the north
end of Rutland Street.
   12.   The east side and the west side of the alley between Rutland Street
and Clarendon Street going north and south between First Street and Second
Street.
   13.   The north half of the east side of Clarendon Street, between First and
Second Street, Kingsley’s Second Addition to the City.
   14.   The east side of Park Street.
   15.   Thirty feet north from the intersection of First Street and Main
Street on the west side of Main Street as well as in the center of Main Street
for 75 feet north of the intersection.
   16.   The north side of West First Street from Barre Street to Brandon
Street.
   17.   The east side of Clarendon Street, between First Street and Second
Street, Kingsley’s Second Addition to the City.
   18.   On Main Street from First Street to Third Street from 2:30 a.m. until
5:00 a.m.
   19.   On Second Street from Barre Street to Burlington Street from 2:30 a.m.
until 5:00 a.m.
   20.   From the intersection of Quest Avenue and 322nd Street going north on
Quest Avenue from 560 feet, south on Quest Avenue for 350 feet, and west on
322nd Street for 425 feet on both sides of such roads.
   21.   On the north side of East Fourth Street between Main Street and
Burlington Street.
   22.   On Main Street from First Street to Third Street from 2:30 a.m. until
5:00 a.m. from November 1 to April 1.
   23.   On Second Street from Barre Street to Burlington Street from 2:30 a.m.
until 5:00 a.m. from November 1 to April 1.
   24.   On the west side of Main Street north of Fourth Street.
   25.   On the east side of Rutland Street from Fourth Street to the north end
of Rutland Street and the south side of Kurtz Drive.
69.09   SNOW REMOVAL.
No person shall park, abandon or leave unattended any vehicle on any public
street, alley, or City-owned off-street parking area during snow removal
operations unless the snow has been removed or plowed from said street, alley
or parking area and the snow has ceased to fall.
(Code of Iowa, 321.236[1])
69.10   TEMPORARY PARKING ZONE.
   It shall be lawful for any vehicle to park in front of the residence located
at 215 Burlington Street, legally described as Lot 23, Block 1, Town of
Kingsley, Plymouth County, Iowa for a period of 10 minutes at a time for the
purpose of picking up and dropping off children for daycare.
(Ord. 256 - Apr. 21 Supp.)
CHAPTER 70
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
 
70.01  Arrest or Citation    70.04  Parking Violations:  Vehicle
                              Unattended
70.02  Scheduled Violations  70.05  Presumption in Reference to Illegal
                              Parking
70.03  Parking Violations:  70.06  Impounding Vehicles
Alternate
 
70.01   ARREST OR CITATION.
Whenever a peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provision of the Traffic Code, such officer may:
   1.   Immediate Arrest.  Immediately arrest such person and take such person
before a local magistrate; or
   2.   Issue Citation.  Without arresting the person, prepare in quintuplicate
a combined traffic citation and complaint as adopted by the Iowa Commissioner
of Public Safety, or issue a uniform citation and complaint utilizing a State-
approved computerized device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.6 & 321.485)
70.02   SCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.
For violations of the Traffic Code that are designated by Section 805.8A of the
Code of Iowa to be scheduled violations, the scheduled fine for each of those
violations shall be as specified in Section 805.8A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.8 & 805.8A)
70.03   PARKING VIOLATIONS:  ALTERNATE.
Uncontested violations of parking restrictions imposed by this Code of
Ordinances shall be charged upon a simple notice of a fine of $100.00 payable
at the office of the City Clerk. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1b])
70.04   PARKING VIOLATIONS:  VEHICLE UNATTENDED.
When a vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the Traffic Code, and
the driver is not present, the notice of fine or citation as herein provided
shall be attached to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
70.05   PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
In any proceeding charging a standing or parking violation, a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred shall be raised by proof that:
   1.   Described Vehicle.  The particular vehicle described in the information
was parked in violation of the Traffic Code; and
   2.   Registered Owner.  The defendant named in the information was the
registered owner at the time in question.
70.06   IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
A peace officer is hereby authorized to remove, or cause to be removed, a
vehicle from a street, public alley, public parking lot or highway to the
nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the City, under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
   1.   Disabled Vehicle.  When a vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   2.   Illegally Parked Vehicle.  When any vehicle is left unattended and is
so illegally parked as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   3.   Snow Removal.  When any vehicle is left parked in violation of a ban on
parking during snow removal operations.
   4.   Parked Over Limited Time Period.  When any vehicle is left parked for a
continuous period in violation of any limited parking time.  If the owner can
be located, the owner shall be given an opportunity to remove the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   5.   Costs.  In addition to the standard penalties provided, the owner or
driver of any vehicle impounded for the violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be required to pay the reasonable cost of towing and
storage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
CHAPTER 74
OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ON CITY STREETS
 
74.01  Purpose                          74.06  Hours of Operation
74.02  Definition                       74.07  Negligence
74.03  Operation of Golf Carts Permitted74.08  Financial Responsibility
74.04  Unlawful Operation               74.09  Accident Reports
74.05  Equipment                        74.10  Penalty
 
74.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to permit the operation of golf carts on certain
streets in the City, as authorized by Section 321.247 of the Code of Iowa, as
amended.  This chapter applies whenever a golf cart is operated on any street
or alley of the City.
74.02   DEFINITION.
“Golf cart” means a three or four wheeled recreational vehicle generally used
for transportation of person(s) in the sport of golf, that is either electric
powered or gas powered with an engine displacement of less than 800 cubic
centimeters and total dry weight of less than 800 pounds.
74.03   OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS PERMITTED.
Golf carts may be operated upon streets of the City by persons possessing a
valid Iowa operator’s license and who is at least 16 years of age.  All traffic
regulations applicable to the operation of motor vehicles on streets, roads,
and highways of the State of Iowa and the City shall apply to the operation of
a golf cart on the streets and alleys of the City.
74.04   UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   1.   No golf carts shall be operated or parked upon City sidewalks.
   2.   No person shall operate a golf cart in a careless, reckless, or
negligent manner endangering the person or property of another or causing
injury or damage to same.
   3.   No golf cart shall carry more passengers than the golf cart is designed
for.
   4.   Golf carts shall not be operated upon that portion of the street right-
of-way between the curb or edge of street paving and the sidewalk, referred to
as “the parking.”
   5.   Golf carts shall not be operated on any recreational, bike, or walking
trails, unless the trail is specifically designed to allow use of motor
vehicles.
   6.   No golf cart shall be operated upon a City street which is a primary
road extension through the City but shall be allowed to cross a City street
which is a primary road extension through the City.
74.05   EQUIPMENT.
Golf carts operated upon City streets shall be equipped with a minimum of the
following safety features.
   1.   A slow moving vehicle sign.
   2.   A bicycle safety flag, the top of which shall be a minimum of five feet
from ground level.
   3.   Adequate brakes.
74.06   HOURS OF OPERATION. 
Golf carts may be operated on City streets only between sunrise and sunset.
74.07   NEGLIGENCE.
The owner and operator of a golf cart is liable for any injury or damage
occasioned by the negligent operation of a golf cart.  The owner of a golf cart
shall be liable for any such injury or damage only if the owner was the
operator of the golf cart at the time the injury or damage occurred or if the
operator had the owner’s consent to operate the golf cart at the time the
injury or damage occurred.
74.08   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
The owner or operator of any golf cart must maintain insurance as per the Code
of Iowa Section 321A.21 and provide current proof of financial responsibility
upon the request of any law enforcement officer.
74.09   ACCIDENT REPORTS.
Whenever a golf cart is involved in an accident resulting in injury or death to
anyone or property damage amounting to $1,500.00 or more, either the operator
or someone acting for the operator shall immediately notify a law enforcement
officer and shall file an accident report, in accordance with State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.266)
74.10   PENALTY.
A person who violates this chapter is guilty of a municipal infraction under
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 75
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
 
75.01  Purpose                          75.05  Hours of Operation
75.02  Definitions                      75.06  Negligence
75.03  General Regulations              75.07  Financial Responsibility
75.04  Operation of All-Terrain Vehicles75.08  Accident Reports
 
75.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of all-terrain
vehicles within the City.
75.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “All-terrain vehicle” or “ATV” means a motorized vehicle, with not less
than three and not more than six non-highway tires, that is limited in engine
displacement to less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to
less than 1,200 pounds and that has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled
by the operator and handlebars for steering control. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   2.   “Off-road motorcycle” means a two-wheeled motor vehicle that has a seat
or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering
control and that is intended by the manufacturer for use on natural terrain. 
“Off-road motorcycle” includes a motorcycle that was originally issued a
certificate of title and registered for highway use under Chapter 321 of the
Code of Iowa, but which contains design features that enable operation over
natural terrain.  An operator of an off-road motorcycle is also subject to the
provisions of this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   3.   “Off-road utility vehicle” means a motorized vehicle, with not less
than four and not more than eight non-highway tires or rubberized tracks, that
has a seat that is of bucket or bench design, not intended to be straddled by
the operator, and a steering wheel or control levers for control.  “Off-road
utility vehicle” includes the following vehicles:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
      A.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 1” includes vehicles with a total
dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less and a width of 50 inches or less.
      B.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 2” includes vehicles, other than
Type 1 vehicles, with a total dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less and a width of
65 inches or less.
      C.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 3” includes vehicles with a total
dry weight of more than 2,000 pounds or a width of more than 65 inches, or
both.
An operator of an off-road utility vehicle is also subject to the provisions of
this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
75.03   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
No person shall operate an ATV, off-road motorcycle or off-road utility vehicle
within the City in violation of Chapter 321I of the Code of Iowa.  Operation of
an ATV, off-road motorcycle, or off-road utility vehicle must be by a person
possessing a valid Iowa operator’s license who is at least 16 years of age. 
All traffic regulations applicable to the operation of motor vehicles on
street, roads, and highways of the State and City shall apply to the operation
of an ATV, off-road motorcycle or off-road utility vehicle on the street and
alleys of the City.  An ATV must be registered with the Iowa Department of
Natural Resources and the registration and non-resident user permit decals must
be displayed on the machine.
Code of Iowa, Ch. 321I)
75.04   OPERATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
The operators of ATVs shall comply with the following restrictions as to where
ATVs may be operated within the City:
   1.   Streets.  ATVs and off-road utility vehicles may be operated on streets
only in accordance with Section 321.234A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[1 & 3])
   2.   Trails.  ATVs shall not be operated on snowmobile trails except where
designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[4])
   3.   Parks and Other City Land.  ATVs shall not be operated in any park,
playground or upon any other City-owned property without the express permission
of the City. 
   4.   Sidewalk or Parking.  ATVs shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking.”
   5.   Direct Crossing.  An all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle
may make a direct crossing of a highway provided all of the following occur:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[5])
      A.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety degrees to
the direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing.
      B.   The all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle is brought to a
complete stop before crossing the shoulder or main traveled way of the highway.
      C.   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard.
      D.   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another public street or highway.
      E.   The crossing is made from a street, roadway, or highway designated
as an all-terrain vehicle trail by a state agency, county, or city to a street,
roadway, or highway designated as an all-terrain vehicle trail by a state
agency, county, or city.
75.05   HOURS OF OPERATION.
No ATVS, off-road motorcycles, or off-road utility vehicles shall be operated
anywhere in the City between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. except for
emergency situations or for loading or unloading from a transport trailer.
75.06   NEGLIGENCE.
The owner and operator of an ATV are liable for any injury or damage occasioned
by the negligent operation of the ATV.
The owner of an ATV shall be liable for any such injury or damage only if the
owner was the operator of the ATV at the time the injury or damage occurred or
if the operator had the owner’s consent to operate the ATV at the time the
injury or damage occurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.19)
75.07   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
The owner or operator of any ATV/UTV must maintain and provide current proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with Section 321.20B of the Code of Iowa
when operated or used for any purpose inside the City limits.
75.08   ACCIDENT REPORTS.
Whenever an ATV is involved in an accident resulting in injury or death to
anyone or property damage amounting to $1,500.00 or more, either the operator
or someone acting for the operator shall immediately notify a law enforcement
officer and shall file an accident report, in accordance with State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.11)
CHAPTER 76
WALKING/BIKING TRAIL REGULATIONS
 
76.01  Authorized Usage       76.03  Authorized Usage; Exemption
76.02  Livestock not Permitted76.04  Violation
 
76.01   AUTHORIZED USAGE.
Unless authorized by the Mayor, no person shall at any time operate, park, let
stand or otherwise use any motorized vehicle including motorcycles and
snowmobiles on the Kingsley walking/biking trail, which trail runs from the
corner of Quest Avenue and Highway 140 north to the driveway of Kingsley-
Pierson School, then westerly from said driveway, then north to 322nd Street
then east and north to Quest Avenue, then east to behind residences on the
200th block of Park Street, then north to west Third Street, then east along
Third Street to Brandon Street, then north on Brandon Street to west Fifth
Street, then east on West Fifth Street to Clarendon Street, also including from
the corner of Main Street and Fifth Street north along C66 to the Kingsley
Cemetery as designated by the map on file with the Clerk.
76.02   LIVESTOCK NOT PERMITTED.
Livestock, including horses, shall not be permitted on the Kingsley walking/
biking trail.
76.03   AUTHORIZED USAGE; EXEMPTION.
Section
76.01 shall not apply to any person with a disability using a motorized
wheelchair on said trail.
76.04   VIOLATION.
Any person violating this chapter shall be subject to a fine of $100.00 for the
first offense; $500.00 for the second offense and $1,500.00 for each subsequent
offense.
CHAPTER 80
ABANDONED VEHICLES
 
80.01  Definitions                               80.06  Disposal of Abandoned Vehicles
80.02  Authority to Take Possession of Abandoned 80.07  Disposal of Totally Inoperable
Vehicles                                          Vehicles
80.03  Notice by Mail                            80.08  Proceeds from Sales
80.04  Notification in Newspaper                 80.09  Duties of Demolisher
80.05  Fees for Impoundment
 
80.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[1] & Sec. 321.90)
   1.   “Abandoned vehicle” means any of the following:
      A.   A vehicle that has been left unattended on public property for more
than 24 hours and lacks current registration plates or two or more wheels or
other parts which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
      B.   A vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for more
than 24 hours.
      C.   A vehicle that has been unlawfully parked or placed on private
property without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property
for more than 24 hours.
      D.   A vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of a police
authority and has not been reclaimed for a period of 10 days.  However, a
police authority may declare the vehicle abandoned within the 10-day period by
commencing the notification process.
      E.   Any vehicle parked on the highway determined by a police authority
to create a hazard to other vehicle traffic.
      F.   A vehicle that has been impounded pursuant to Section 321J.4B of the
Code of Iowa by order of the court and whose owner has not paid the impoundment
fees after notification by the person or agency responsible for carrying out
the impoundment order.
   2.   “Demolisher” means a person licensed under Chapter 321H of the Code of
Iowa whose business it is to convert a vehicle to junk, processed scrap or
scrap metal, or otherwise to wreck, or dismantle vehicles.
   3.   “Garage keeper” means any operator of a parking place or establishment,
motor vehicle storage facility, or establishment for the servicing, repair, or
maintenance of motor vehicles.
   4.   “Police authority” means the Iowa State Patrol or any law enforcement
agency of a county or city.
80.02   AUTHORITY TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
A police authority, upon the authority’s own initiative or upon the request of
any other authority having the duties of control of highways or traffic, shall
take into custody an abandoned vehicle on public property and may take into
custody any abandoned vehicle on private property.  The police authority may
employ its own personnel, equipment, and facilities or hire a private entity,
equipment, and facilities for the purpose of removing, preserving, storing, or
disposing of abandoned vehicles.  A property owner or other person in control
of private property may employ a private entity that is a garage keeper to
dispose of an abandoned vehicle, and the private entity may take into custody
the abandoned vehicle without a police authority’s initiative.  If a police
authority employs a private entity to dispose of abandoned vehicles, the police
authority shall provide the private entity with the names and addresses of the
registered owners, all lienholders of record, and any other known claimant to
the vehicle or the personal property found in the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[2])
80.03   NOTICE BY MAIL.
The police authority or private entity that takes into custody an abandoned
vehicle shall notify, within 20 days, by certified mail, the last known
registered owner of the vehicle, all lienholders of record, and any other known
claimant to the vehicle or to personal property found in the vehicle, addressed
to the parties’ last known addresses of record, that the abandoned vehicle has
been taken into custody.  Notice shall be deemed given when mailed.  The notice
shall describe the year, make, model and vehicle identification number of the
vehicle, describe the personal property found in the vehicle, set forth the
location of the facility where the vehicle is being held, and inform the
persons receiving the notice of their right to reclaim the vehicle and personal
property within 10 days after the effective date of the notice upon payment of
all towing, preservation, and storage charges resulting from placing the
vehicle in custody and upon payment of the costs of the notice.  The notice
shall also state that the failure of the owner, lienholders or claimants to
exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
time provided shall be deemed a waiver by the owner, lienholders and claimants
of all right, title, claim and interest in the vehicle or personal property and
that failure to reclaim the vehicle or personal property is deemed consent to
the sale of the vehicle at a public auction or disposal of the vehicle to a
demolisher and to disposal of the personal property by sale or destruction.  If
the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a private entity without a
police authority’s initiative, the notice shall state that the private entity
may claim a garage keeper’s lien as described in Section 321.90 of the Code of
Iowa, and may proceed to sell or dispose of the vehicle.  If the abandoned
vehicle was taken into custody by a police authority or by a private entity
hired by a police authority, the notice shall state that any person claiming
rightful possession of the vehicle or personal property who disputes the
planned disposition of the vehicle or property by the police authority or
private entity or of the assessment of fees and charges provided by this
section may ask for an evidentiary hearing before the police authority to
contest those matters.  If the persons receiving notice do not ask for a
hearing or exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property
within the 10-day reclaiming period, the owner, lienholders or claimants shall
no longer have any right, title, claim, or interest in or to the vehicle or the
personal property.  A court in any case in law or equity shall not recognize
any right, title, claim, or interest of the owner, lienholders or claimants
after the expiration of the 10-day reclaiming period.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.04   NOTIFICATION IN NEWSPAPER.
If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and
addresses of the last registered owner and all lienholders, notice by one
publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the area where the
vehicle was abandoned shall be sufficient to meet all requirements of notice
under Section
80.03.  The published notice may contain multiple listings of abandoned
vehicles and personal property but shall be published within the same time
requirements and contain the same information as prescribed for mailed notice
in Section
80.03.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3b])
80.05   FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
The owner, lienholder, or claimant shall pay $3.00 if claimed within five days
of impounding, plus $1.00 for each additional day within the reclaiming period
plus towing charges, if stored by the City, or towing and storage fees, if
stored in a public garage, whereupon said vehicle shall be released.  The
amount of towing charges, and the rate of storage charges by privately owned
garages, shall be established by such facility.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.06   DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
If an abandoned vehicle has not been reclaimed as provided herein, the police
authority or private entity shall make a determination as to whether or not the
motor vehicle should be sold for use upon the highways, and shall dispose of
the motor vehicle in accordance with State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.07   DISPOSAL OF TOTALLY INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
The City or any person upon whose property or in whose possession is found any
abandoned motor vehicle, or any person being the owner of a motor vehicle whose
title certificate is faulty, lost or destroyed, may dispose of such motor
vehicle to a demolisher for junk, without a title and without notification
procedures, if such motor vehicle lacks an engine or two or more wheels or
other structural part which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.  The police
authority shall give the applicant a certificate of authority.  The applicant
shall then apply to the County Treasurer for a junking certificate and shall
surrender the certificate of authority in lieu of the certificate of title.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[2e])
80.08   PROCEEDS FROM SALES.
Proceeds from the sale of any abandoned vehicle shall be applied to the expense
of auction, cost of towing, preserving, storing, and notification required, in
accordance with State law.  Any balance shall be held for the owner of the
motor vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days, and then shall be deposited
in the State Road Use Tax Fund.  Where the sale of any vehicle fails to realize
the amount necessary to meet costs the police authority shall apply for
reimbursement from the Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.09   DUTIES OF DEMOLISHER.
Any demolisher who purchases or otherwise acquires an abandoned motor vehicle
for junk shall junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or otherwise demolish such motor
vehicle.  A demolisher shall not junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or demolish a
vehicle until the demolisher has obtained the junking certificate issued for
the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[3a])
CHAPTER 90
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
90.01  Definitions                   90.11  Responsibility for Water Service
                                      Pipe
90.02  Superintendent’s Duties     90.12  Failure to Maintain
90.03  Mandatory Connections         90.13  Curb Valve
90.04  Abandoned Connections         90.14  Interior Valve
90.05  Connection Charge             90.15  Inspection and Approval
90.06  Compliance with Plumbing Code 90.16  Completion by the City
90.07  Plumber Required              90.17  Shutting Off Water Supply
90.08  Excavations                   90.18  Operation of Curb Valve
90.09  Tapping Mains                 90.19  Fire Hydrants
90.10  Installation of Water Service 90.20 Abandoned Service Pipes
Pipe
 
90.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in the chapters in this Code of
Ordinances pertaining to the Water Service System:
   1.   “Combined service account” means a customer service account for the
provision of two or more utility services.
   2.   “Customer” means, in addition to any person receiving water service
from the City, the owner of the property served, and as between such parties
the duties, responsibilities, liabilities and obligations hereinafter imposed
shall be joint and several.
   3.   “Superintendent” means the Water Supervisor of the City or any duly
authorized assistant, agent or representative.
   4.   “Water main” means a water supply pipe provided for public or community
use.
   5.   “Water service pipe” means the pipe from the water main to the building
served.
   6.   “Water system” or “water works” means all public facilities for
securing, collecting, storing, pumping, treating, and distributing water.
90.02   SUPERINTENDENT’S DUTIES.
The Superintendent shall supervise the installation of water service pipes and
their connection to the water main and enforce all regulations pertaining to
water services in the City in accordance with this chapter.  This chapter shall
apply to all replacements of existing water service pipes as well as to new
ones.  The Superintendent shall make such rules, not in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter, as may be needed for the detailed operation of the
water system, subject to the approval of the Council.  In the event of an
emergency the Superintendent may make temporary rules for the protection of the
system until due consideration by the Council may be had.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
90.03   MANDATORY CONNECTIONS.
The owners of any houses, buildings or structures used for human occupancy,
employment or use, situated within the City and abutting on any street, alley
or right-of-way in which there is located a public water main are hereby
required to connect such facilities to the City’s public water system in
accordance with the provisions of these Water Service chapters within 60 days
after the date of official notice to do so, provided that said public water
main is located within 100 feet of the property line of such owner.
90.04   ABANDONED CONNECTIONS.
When an existing water service is abandoned or a service is renewed with a new
tap in the main, all abandoned connections with the mains shall be turned off
at the corporation stop and made absolutely watertight.
90.05   CONNECTION CHARGE.
There shall be a connection charge in the amount of $225.00 paid before
issuance of a permit to reimburse the City for costs borne by the City in
making water service available to the property served.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
90.06   COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE.
The installation of any water service pipe and any connection with the water
system shall comply with all pertinent and applicable provisions, whether
regulatory, procedural or enforcement provisions, of the State Plumbing Code.
90.07   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installations of water service pipes and connections to the water system
shall be made by a State-licensed plumber. 
90.08   EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required in making a connection
shall be performed in accordance with the State Plumbing Code and the
provisions of
Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
90.09   TAPPING MAINS.
All taps into water mains shall be made by or under the direct supervision of
the Superintendent and in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Independent Services.  No more than one house, building, or premises
shall be supplied from one tap unless special written permission is obtained
from the Superintendent and unless provision is made so that each house,
building, or premises may be shut off independently of the other.
   2.   Sizes and Location of Taps.  All mains six inches or less in diameter
shall receive no larger than a three-fourths inch tap.  All mains of over six
inches in diameter shall receive no larger than a one-inch tap.  Where a larger
connection than a one-inch tap is desired, two or more small taps or saddles
shall be used, as the Superintendent shall order.  All taps in the mains shall
be made in the top half of the pipe, at least 18 inches apart.  No main shall
be tapped nearer than two feet of the joint in the main.
   3.   Corporation Stop.  A brass corporation stop, of the pattern and weight
approved by the Superintendent, shall be inserted in every tap in the main. 
The corporation stop in the main shall be of the same size as the service pipe.
   4.   Location Record.  An accurate and dimensional sketch showing the exact
location of the tap shall be filed with the Superintendent in such form as the
Superintendent shall require.
90.10   INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE PIPE.
Water service pipes from the main to the meter setting shall be Type K copper. 
The use of any other pipe material for the service line shall first be approved
by the Superintendent.  Pipe must be laid sufficiently waving, and to such
depth, as to prevent rupture from settlement or freezing.
90.11   RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER SERVICE PIPE.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the water service pipe from the main to the building served
shall be borne by the owner.  The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss
or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation or
maintenance of said water service pipe.
90.12   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
When any portion of the water service pipe which is the responsibility of the
property owner becomes defective or creates a nuisance and the owner fails to
correct such nuisance, the City may do so and assess the costs thereof to the
property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a & h])
90.13   CURB VALVE.
There shall be installed within the public right-of-way a main shut-off valve
on the water service pipe of a pattern approved by the Superintendent.  The
shut-off valve shall be constructed to be visible and even with the pavement or
ground.
90.14   INTERIOR VALVE.
There shall be installed a shut-off valve on every service pipe inside the
building as close to the entrance of the pipe within the building as possible
and so located that the water can be shut off conveniently.  Where one service
pipe supplies more than one customer within the building, there shall be
separate valves for each such customer so that service may be shut off for one
without interfering with service to the others.
90.15   INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
All water service pipes and their connections to the water system must be
inspected and approved in writing by the Superintendent before they are
covered, and the Superintendent shall keep a record of such approvals.  If the
Superintendent refuses to approve the work, the plumber or property owner must
proceed immediately to correct the work.  Every person who uses or intends to
use the municipal water system shall permit the Superintendent to enter the
premises to inspect or make necessary alterations or repairs at all reasonable
hours and on proof of authority.
90.16   COMPLETION BY THE CITY.
Should any excavation be left open or only partly refilled for 24 hours after
the water service pipe is installed and connected with the water system, or
should the work be improperly done, the City shall have the right to finish or
correct the work, and the Council shall assess the costs to the property owner
or the plumber.  If the plumber is assessed, the plumber must pay the costs
before receiving another permit.  If the property owner is assessed, such
assessment may be collected with and in the same manner as general property
taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a & h])
90.17   SHUTTING OFF WATER SUPPLY.
The Superintendent may shut off the supply of water to any customer because of
any violation of the regulations contained in these Water Service System
chapters that is not being contested in good faith.  The supply shall not be
turned on again until all violations have been corrected and the Superintendent
has ordered the water to be turned on.
90.18   OPERATION OF CURB VALVE.
It is unlawful for any person except the Superintendent or a plumber to turn
water on at the curb valve, and said plumber shall take no action contrary to
the orders of the Superintendent and shall leave the water off or on, as
directed by the Superintendent.
90.19   FIRE HYDRANTS.
No person, unless specifically authorized by the City, shall open or attempt to
draw water from any fire hydrant for any purpose whatsoever.
90.20   ABANDONED SERVICE PIPES.
All service pipes that may become useless because of laying of larger or other
new service or because water will no longer be used through them, must be
permanently abandoned at the water main at the expense of the owner of the
premises and reported to the City Clerk.  No one shall disconnect or remove
water supply fixtures or piping from any premises served by City water, or
alter the same in such a way as to make the service connection unnecessary for
the premises without permanently closing off the connection at the water main
and reporting the same to the City Clerk.
If the owner of the service line fails to comply with this section, the City
may, in its sole discretion:
   1.   Develop a schedule of compliance which the owner of the service line to
be abandoned shall follow: or
   2.   Terminate water service to the premises until proper abandonment of the
unused service line has been performed; or
   3.   Consider the abandoned service line a nuisance and abate it as
otherwise allowed by this Code of Ordinances; or
   4.   Pursue the failure to abandon as a municipal infraction as otherwise
allowed in this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 91
WATER METERS
 
91.01  Purpose                          91.07  Meter Repairs
91.02  Water Use Metered                91.08  Right of Entry
91.03  Fire Sprinkler Systems; Exception91.09  Meter Installation Fee
91.04  Location of Meters               91.10  Meter Testing
91.05  Meter Setting                    91.11  Accuracy Test
91.06  Meter Costs
 
91.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to encourage the conservation of water and
facilitate the equitable distribution of charges for water service among
customers.
91.02   WATER USE METERED.
All water furnished customers shall be measured through meters furnished by the
City and installed by a plumber.
91.03   FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS; EXCEPTION.
Fire sprinkler systems may be connected to water mains by direct connection
without meters under the direct supervision of the Superintendent.  No other
open, unmetered connection shall be incorporated in the system, and there shall
be no valves except a main control valve at the entrance to the building which
must be sealed open.
91.04   LOCATION OF METERS.
All meters shall be so located that they are easily accessible to meter readers
and repairmen and protected from freezing.
91.05   METER SETTING.
The property owner shall provide all necessary piping and fittings for proper
setting of the meter including a valve on the discharge side of the meter. 
Meter pits may be used only upon approval of the Superintendent and shall be of
a design and construction approved by the Superintendent.
91.06   METER COSTS.
The full cost of any meter larger than that required for a single-family
residence shall be paid to the City by the property owner or customer prior to
the installation of any such meter by the City, or, at the sole option of the
City, the property owner or customer may be required to purchase and install
such meter in accordance with requirements established by the City.
91.07   METER REPAIRS.
Whenever a water meter owned by the City is found to be out of order the
Superintendent shall have it repaired.  If it is found that damage to the meter
has occurred due to the carelessness or negligence of the customer or property
owner, or the meter is not owned by the City, then the property owner shall be
liable for the cost of repairs.
91.08   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Superintendent shall be permitted to enter the premises of any customer at
any reasonable time to read, remove, or change a meter.
91.09   METER INSTALLATION FEE.
The property owner shall pay an installation fee of $125.00 for each new
installation of a water meter to a three-fourths-inch line and $225.00 for each
new installation of a water meter to a one-inch line.  Such meter is to remain
the property of the City.
91.10   METER TESTING.
The Superintendent or any designee shall make a test of the accuracy of any
water meter at any time when requested in writing.  If it is found that such
meter overruns to the extent of five percent or more, the cost of the test
shall be paid by the City and a refund shall be made to the customer for
overcharges collected since the last known date of accuracy, but not more than
five percent of the total water bill and not for a longer period than three
months.  There shall be a $10.00 charge for each test in excess of one in a 12-
month period.
91.11   ACCURACY TEST.
The Superintendent shall make a test of the accuracy of any water meter at any
time when requested in writing, but not more often than once in six months. 
Such request shall be accompanied by a refundable deposit of $5.00,
guaranteeing payment of costs if found due.  If the meter is found to overrun
to the extent of two percent or more, the cost of the test shall be paid by the
City and a refund shall be made to the customer for overcharges collected since
the last known date of accuracy but not for longer than three months, plus the
meter test deposit.  If the meter is found to be accurate or slow, or less than
two percent fast, the customer deposit shall be forfeited as the reasonable
costs of the test, and the customer shall be liable for any deficiency over two
percent up to three months.
CHAPTER 92
WATER RATES
 
92.01  Service Charges          92.05  Service Discontinued
92.02  Rates For Service        92.06  Lien for Nonpayment
92.03  Rates Outside the City   92.07  Lien Exemption
92.04  Billing for Water Service92.08  Lien Notice
 
92.01   SERVICE CHARGES.
Each customer shall pay for water service provided by the City based upon use
of water as determined by meters provided for in
Chapter 91.  Each location, building, premises or connection shall be
considered a separate and distinct customer whether owned or controlled by the
same person or not.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.02   RATES FOR SERVICE.
Water service shall be furnished at the following monthlyrates within the City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
 
Gallons Used Per Month Rate Effective July 1, 2020 Rate Effective July 1, 2021
First 1,000            $9.00 (minimum bill)        $11.00 (minimum bill)
All over 1,000         $1.25 per 1,000 gallons     $1.25 per 1,000 gallons
 
In addition, there shall be a monthly water meter fee of $2.00.
Any unmetered water usage by a consumer while their meter is not operating
shall be charged at a rate set by the City Council.
92.03   RATES OUTSIDE THE CITY.
Water service shall be provided to any customer located outside the corporate
limits of the City which the City has agreed to serve at rates one and one-half
percent of the rates provided in Section
92.02.  No such customer, however, will be served unless the customer shall
have signed a service contract agreeing to be bound by the ordinances, rules,
and regulations applying to water service established by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4 & 384.84)
92.04   BILLING FOR WATER SERVICE.
Water service shall be billed as part of a combined service account, payable in
accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Bills Issued.  The Clerk shall prepare and issue bills for combined
service accounts on or before the first day of each month.
   2.   Bills Payable.  Bills for combined service accounts shall be due and
payable at the office of the Clerk by the fifteenth day of the month.
   3.   Late Payment Penalty.  Bills not paid when due shall be considered
delinquent.  A one-time late payment penalty of 10 percent of the amount due
shall be added to each delinquent bill.
92.05   SERVICE DISCONTINUED.
Water service to delinquent customers shall be discontinued or disconnected in
accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Notice.  The Utility Billing Clerk shall notify each delinquent
customer that service will be discontinued or disconnected if payment of the
combined service account, including late payment charges, is not received by
the date specified in the notice of delinquency.  Such notice shall be sent by
ordinary mail to the customer in whose name the delinquent charges were
incurred and shall inform the customer of the nature of the delinquency and
afford the customer the opportunity for a hearing prior to the discontinuance
or disconnection.
   2.   Notice to Landlords.  If the customer is a tenant, and if the owner or
landlord of the property or premises has made a written request for notice, the
notice of delinquency shall also be given to the owner or landlord.  If the
customer is a tenant and requests a change of name for service under the
account, such request shall be sent to the owner or landlord of the property if
the owner or landlord has made a written request for notice of any change of
name for service under the account to the rental property.
   3.   Hearing.  If a hearing is requested by the Friday before the regular
Council meeting, the Council shall conduct an informal hearing and shall make a
determination as to whether the discontinuance or disconnection is justified. 
If the Council finds that discontinuance or disconnection is justified, then
such discontinuance or disconnection shall be made, unless payment has been
received.
   4.   Fees.  A fee of $50.00 shall be charged before service is restored to a
delinquent customer.  No fee shall be charged for the usual or customary trips
in the regular changes in occupancies of property.
92.06   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
The owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof shall be
jointly and severally liable for water service charges to the premises.  Water
service charges remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon
the property or premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the
County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.07   LIEN EXEMPTION. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Water Service Exemption.  The lien for nonpayment shall not apply to
charges for water service to a residential or commercial rental property where
water service is separately metered and the rates or charges for the water
service are paid directly to the City by the tenant, if the landlord gives
written notice to the City that the property is residential or commercial
rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or charges.  The
City may require a deposit not exceeding the usual cost of 90 days of such
services to be paid to the City.  When the tenant moves from the rental
property, the City shall refund the deposit if all service charges are paid in
full.  The lien exemption does not apply to delinquent charges for repairs
related to any of the services.
   2.   Other Service Exemption.  The lien for nonpayment shall also not apply
to the charges for any of the services of sewer systems, storm water drainage
systems, sewage treatment, solid waste collection, and solid waste disposal for
a residential rental property where the charge is paid directly to the City by
the tenant, if the landlord gives written notice to the City that the property
is residential rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or
charges for such service.  The City may require a deposit not exceeding the
usual cost of 90 days of such services to be paid to the City.  When the tenant
moves from the rental property, the City shall refund the deposit if all
service charges are paid in full.  The lien exemption does not apply to
delinquent charges for repairs related to any of the services.
   3.   Written Notice.  The landlord’s written notice shall contain the name
of the tenant responsible for charges, the address of the residential or
commercial rental property that the tenant is to occupy, and the date that the
occupancy begins.  Upon receipt, the City shall acknowledge the notice and
deposit.  A change in tenant for a residential rental property shall require a
new written notice to be given to the City within 30 business days of the
change in tenant.  A change in tenant for a commercial rental property shall
require a new written notice to be given to the City within 10 business days of
the change in tenant.  A change in the ownership of the residential rental
property shall require written notice of such change to be given to the City
within 30 business days of the completion of the change of ownership.  A change
in the ownership of the commercial rental property shall require written notice
of such change to be given to the City within 10 business days of the
completion of the change of ownership. 
   4.   Mobile Homes, Modular Homes, and Manufactured Homes.  A lien for
nonpayment of utility services described in Subsections 1 and 2 of this section
shall not be placed upon a premises that is a mobile home, modular home, or
manufactured home if the mobile home, modular home, or manufactured home is
owned by a tenant of and located in a mobile home park or manufactured home
community and the mobile home park or manufactured home community owner or
manager is the account holder, unless the lease agreement specifies that the
tenant is responsible for payment of a portion of the rates or charges billed
to the account holder.
92.08   LIEN NOTICE.
A lien for delinquent water service charges shall not be certified to the
County Treasurer unless prior written notice of intent to certify a lien is
given to the customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred.  If
the customer is a tenant and if the owner or landlord of the property or
premises has made a written request for notice, the notice shall also be given
to the owner or landlord.  The notice shall be sent to the appropriate persons
by ordinary mail not less than 30 days prior to certification of the lien to
the County Treasurer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
CHAPTER 95
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
 
95.01  Purpose                  95.06  Service Outside the City
95.02  Definitions              95.07  Right of Entry
95.03  Superintendent           95.08  Use of Easements
95.04  Prohibited Acts          95.09  Special Penalties
95.05  Sewer Connection Required
 
95.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters of this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Sanitary
Sewers is to establish rules and regulations governing the treatment and
disposal of sanitary sewage within the City in order to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
95.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise,
the following terms are defined:
   1.   “B.O.D.” (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand) means the quantity of
oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20 degrees C, expressed in milligrams per
liter or parts per million.
   2.   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the
building sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
   3.   “Building sewer” means that part of the horizontal piping from the
building wall to its connection with the main sewer or the primary treatment
portion of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system conveying the
drainage of one building site.
   4.   “Combined sewer” means a sewer receiving both surface run-off and
sewage.
   5.   “Customer” means any person responsible for the production of domestic,
commercial, or industrial waste that is directly or indirectly discharged into
the public sewer system.
   6.   “Garbage” means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial
preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage,
and sale of produce.
   7.   “Industrial wastes” means the liquid wastes from industrial
manufacturing processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage. 
   8.   “Inspector” means the person duly authorized by the Council to inspect
and approve the installation of building sewers and their connections to the
public sewer system; and to inspect such sewage as may be discharged
therefrom. 
   9.   “Natural outlet” means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch,
lake, or other body of surface or groundwater. 
   10.   “On-site wastewater treatment and disposal system” means all equipment
and devices necessary for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment,
and disposal of wastewater from four or fewer dwelling units or other
facilities serving the equivalent of 15 persons (1,500 gpd) or less.
   11.   “pH” means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen
ions in grams per liter of solution. 
   12.   “Public sewer” means a sewer in which all owners of abutting
properties have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   13.   “Sanitary sewage” means sewage discharging from the sanitary
conveniences of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office
buildings, factories, or institutions, and free from storm, surface water, and
industrial waste.
   14.   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer that carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted. 
   15.   “Sewage” means a combination of the water-carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments,
together with such ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present. 
   16.   “Sewage treatment plant” means any arrangement of devices and
structures used for treating sewage. 
   17.   “Sewage works” or “sewage system” means all facilities for collecting,
pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage. 
   18.   “Sewer” means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage. 
   19.   “Sewer service charges” means any and all charges, rates or fees
levied against and payable by customers, as consideration for the servicing of
said customers by said sewer system.
   20.   “Slug” means any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste that
in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for
any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average
24-hour concentration or flows during normal operation. 
   21.   “Storm drain” or “storm sewer” means a sewer that carries storm and
surface waters and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   22.   “Superintendent” means the Water Supervisor of the City or any
authorized deputy, agent, or representative. 
   23.   “Suspended solids” means solids that either float on the surface of,
or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and that are removable
by laboratory filtering. 
   24.   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
95.03   SUPERINTENDENT.
The Superintendent shall exercise the following powers and duties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Operation and Maintenance.  Operate and maintain the City sewage
system.
   2.   Inspection and Tests.  Conduct necessary inspections and tests to
assure compliance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters. 
   3.   Records.  Maintain a complete and accurate record of all sewers, sewage
connections and manholes constructed showing the location and grades thereof.
95.04   PROHIBITED ACTS.
No person shall do, or allow, any of the following:
   1.   Damage Sewer System.  Maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment that is a part of the sewer system.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
   2.   Surface Run-Off or Groundwater.  Connect a roof downspout, sump pump,
exterior foundation drain, areaway drain, or other source of surface run-off or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. 
   3.   Manholes.  Open or enter any manhole of the sewer system, except by
authority of the Superintendent. 
   4.   Objectionable Wastes.  Place or deposit in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the City, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other
objectionable waste.
   5.   Septic Tanks.  Construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage
except as provided in these chapters. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
   6.   Untreated Discharge.  Discharge to any natural outlet within the City,
or in any area under its jurisdiction, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes,
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of these chapters. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
95.05   SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
The owners of any houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in
the future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer, are hereby required
to install, at such owner’s expense, suitable toilet facilities therein and a
building sewer connecting such facilities directly with the proper public
sewer, and to maintain the same all in accordance with the provisions of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters, such compliance to be completed within 90 days after
date of official notice from the City to do so provided that said public sewer
is located within 100 feet of the property line of such owner and is of such
design as to receive and convey by gravity such sewage as may be conveyed to
it.  Billing for sanitary sewer service will begin the date of official notice
to connect to the public sewer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
95.06   SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
The owners of property outside the corporate limits of the City so situated
that it may be served by the City sewer system may apply to the Council for
permission to connect to the public sewer upon the terms and conditions
stipulated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 & 3])
95.07   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer
chapters.  The Superintendent or representatives shall have no authority to
inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining,
ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities
for waste treatment.
95.08   USE OF EASEMENTS.
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement.  All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
95.09   SPECIAL PENALTIES.
The following special penalty provisions shall apply to violations of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters: 
   1.   Notice of Violation.  Any person found to be violating any provision of
these chapters except Subsections 1, 3, and 4 of Section
95.04, shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof.  The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations. 
   2.   Continuing Violations.  Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided for in subsection 1 hereof shall be in violation
of this Code of Ordinances.  Each day in which any such violation shall
continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   3.   Liability Imposed.  Any person violating any of the provisions of these
chapters shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the City by reason of such violation. 
CHAPTER 96
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
 
96.01  Permit                 96.06  Interceptors Required
96.02  Permit Fee             96.07  Sewer Tap
96.03  Plumber Required       96.08  Inspection Required
96.04  Excavations            96.09  Property Owner’s Responsibility
96.05  Connection Requirements96.10  Abatement of Violations
 
96.01   PERMIT.
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening into,
use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the City.  The application for the permit shall
set forth the location and description of the property to be connected with the
sewer system and the purpose for which the sewer is to be used, and shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent.  The permit shall require the owner to complete construction and
connection of the building sewer to the public sewer within 90 days after the
issuance of the permit, except that when a property owner makes sufficient
showing that due to conditions beyond the owner’s control or peculiar hardship,
such time period is inequitable or unfair, an extension of time within which to
comply with the provisions herein may be granted.  Any sewer connection permit
may be revoked at any time for a violation of these chapters.
96.02   PERMIT FEE.
The person who makes the application shall pay a fee in the amount of $50.00
for residential and commercial customers or $50.00 for industrial customers to
the Clerk to cover the cost of issuing the permit and supervising, regulating,
and inspecting the work. 
96.03   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installations of building sewers and connections to the public sewer shall
be made by a State-licensed plumber.
96.04   EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required for the installation of a
building sewer shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the
State Plumbing Code and the provisions of
Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
96.05   CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
Any connection with a public sanitary sewer must be made under the direct
supervision of the Superintendent and in accordance with the following:
   1.   Old Building Sewers.  Old building sewers may be used in connection
with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test conducted
by the owner and observed by the Superintendent, to meet all requirements of
this chapter.
   2.   Separate Building Sewers.  A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every occupied building; except where one building stands
at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or
can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court,
yard, or driveway.  In such cases the building sewer from the front building
may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building
sewer.
   3.   Installation.  The installation and connection of the building sewer to
the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the State Plumbing Code
and applicable rules and regulations of the City.  All such connections shall
be made gastight and watertight.  Any deviation from the prescribed procedures
and materials must be approved by the Superintendent before installation. 
   4.   Water Lines.  When possible, building sewers should be laid at least 10
feet horizontally from a water service.  The horizontal separation may be less,
provided the water service line is located at one side and at least 12 inches
above the top of the building sewer. 
   5.   Size.  Building sewers shall be sized for the peak expected sewage flow
from the building with a minimum building sewer size of four inches.
   6.   Alignment and Grade.  All building sewers shall be laid to a straight
line to meet the following: 
      A.   Recommended grade at one-fourth inch per foot. 
      B.   Minimum grade of one-eighth inch per foot. 
      C.   Minimum velocity of two feet per second with the sewer half full.
      D.   Any deviation in alignment or grade shall be made only with the
written approval of the Superintendent and shall be made only with approved
fittings. 
   7.   Depth.  Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor.  The depth of cover above
the sewer shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost.
   8.   Sewage Lifts.  In all buildings in which any building drain is too low
to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such
drain shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the
building sewer.
   9.   Pipe Specifications.  Building sewer pipe shall be free from flaws,
splits, or breaks.  Materials shall be as specified in the State Plumbing Code
except that the building sewer pipe, from the property line to the public
sewer, shall comply with the current edition of one of the following:
      A.   Clay sewer pipe – A.S.T.M. C-700 (extra strength).
      B.   Extra heavy cast iron soil pipe – A.S.T.M. A-74. 
      C.   Ductile iron water pipe – A.W.W.A. C-151.
      D.   P.V.C. – SDR26 – A.S.T.M. D-3034.
   10.   Bearing Walls.  No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within
three feet of any bearing wall that might thereby be weakened. 
   11.   Jointing.  Fittings, type of joint and jointing material shall be
compatible with the type of pipe used, subject to the approval of the
Superintendent.  Solvent-welded joints are not permitted.
   12.   Unstable Soil.  No sewer connection shall be laid so that it is
exposed when crossing any watercourse.  Where an old watercourse must of
necessity be crossed or where there is any danger of undermining or settlement,
cast iron soil pipe or vitrified clay sewer pipe thoroughly encased in concrete
shall be required for such crossings.  Such encasement shall extend at least
six inches on all sides of the pipe.  The cast iron pipe or encased clay pipe
shall rest on firm, solid material at either end. 
   13.   Preparation of Basement or Crawl Space.  No connection for any
residence, business or other structure with any sanitary sewer shall be made
unless the basement floor is poured, or in the case of a building with a slab
or crawl space, unless the ground floor is installed with the area adjacent to
the foundation of such building cleared of debris and backfilled.  The backfill
shall be well compacted and graded so that the drainage is away from the
foundation.  Prior to the time the basement floor is poured, or the first floor
is installed in buildings without basements, the sewer shall be plugged and the
plug shall be sealed by the Superintendent.  Any accumulation of water in any
excavation or basement during construction and prior to connection to the
sanitary sewer shall be removed by means other than draining into the sanitary
sewer. 
96.06   INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
Grease, oil, sludge and sand interceptors shall be provided by gas and service
stations, convenience stores, car washes, garages, and other facilities when,
in the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of such wastes that contain grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable waste, sand or other harmful ingredients.  Such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units.  When required,
such interceptors shall be installed in accordance with the following:
   1.   Design and Location.  All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity
as specified in the State Plumbing Code, to be approved by the Superintendent,
and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   2.   Construction Standards.  The interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious material capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature.  They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and
equipped with easily removable covers that shall be gastight and watertight. 
   3.   Maintenance.  All such interceptors shall be maintained by the owner at
the owner’s expense and shall be kept in continuously efficient operations at
all times.
96.07   SEWER TAP.
Connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the “Y”
branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location.  If no properly
located “Y” branch is available, a saddle “Y” shall be installed at the
location specified by the Superintendent.  The public sewer shall be tapped
with a tapping machine and a saddle appropriate to the type of public sewer
shall be glued or attached with a gasket and stainless steel clamps to the
sewer.  At no time shall a building sewer be constructed so as to enter a
manhole unless special written permission is received from the Superintendent
and in accordance with the Superintendent’s direction if such connection is
approved.
96.08   INSPECTION REQUIRED.
All connections with the sanitary sewer system before being covered shall be
inspected and approved, in writing, by the Superintendent.  As soon as all pipe
work from the public sewer to inside the building has been completed, and
before any backfilling is done, the Superintendent shall be notified and the
Superintendent shall inspect and test the work as to workmanship and material;
no sewer pipe laid underground shall be covered or trenches filled until after
the sewer has been so inspected and approved. If the Superintendent refuses to
approve the work, the plumber or owner must proceed immediately to correct the
work.
96.09   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.  The owner shall
indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
96.10   ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
Construction or maintenance of building sewer lines, whether located upon the
private property of any owner or in the public right-of-way, which construction
or maintenance is in violation of any of the requirements of this chapter,
shall be corrected, at the owner’s expense, within 30 days after date of
official notice from the Council of such violation.  If not made within such
time, the Council shall, in addition to the other penalties herein provided,
have the right to finish and correct the work and assess the cost thereof to
the property owner.  Such assessment shall be collected with and in the same
manner as general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3])
CHAPTER 97
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
 
97.01  Storm Water             97.05  Restricted Discharges; Powers of
                                Superintendent
97.02  Surface Waters Exception97.06  Special Facilities
97.03  Prohibited Discharges   97.07  Control Manholes
97.04  Restricted Discharges   97.08  Testing of Wastes
 
97.01   STORM WATER.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, groundwater, roof run-off, sub-surface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.  Storm
water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers that
are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the Superintendent.  Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process waters may be discharged on approval of the Superintendent, to a storm
sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
97.02   SURFACE WATERS EXCEPTION.
Special permits for discharging surface waters to a public sanitary sewer may
be issued by the Council upon recommendation of the Superintendent where such
discharge is deemed necessary or advisable for purposes of flushing, but any
permit so issued shall be subject to revocation at any time when deemed to the
best interests of the sewer system.
97.03   PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   1.   Flammable or Explosive Material.  Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel
oil, or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas. 
   2.   Toxic or Poisonous Materials.  Any waters or wastes containing toxic or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or
create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant,
including but not limited to cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter as
CN in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer. 
   3.   Corrosive Wastes.  Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works. 
   4.   Solid or Viscous Substances.  Solid or viscous substances in quantities
or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not
limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders. 
   5.   Excessive B.O.D., Solids or Flow. 
      A.   Any waters or wastes:  (i) having a five-day biochemical oxygen
demand greater than 300 parts per million by weight; or (ii) containing more
than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended solids; or (iii) having an
average daily flow greater than two percent of the average sewage flow of the
City, shall be subject to the review of the Superintendent. 
      B.   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at the owner’s expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to:  (i) reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per
million by weight; or (ii) reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million
by weight; or (iii) control the quantities and rates of discharge of such
waters or wastes.  Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information
relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for
the approval of the Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall
be commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing. 
97.04   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance.  In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.  The substances restricted are:
   1.   High Temperature.  Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than
150 degrees F (65 degrees C).
   2.   Fat, Oil, Grease.  Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or 600
milligrams per liter of dispersed or other soluble matter. 
   3.   Viscous Substances.  Water or wastes containing substances that may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 degrees F and 150 degrees
F (0 degrees to 65 degrees C).
   4.   Garbage.  Any garbage that has not been properly shredded, that is, to
such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow
conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than
one-half inch in any dimension.
   5.   Acids.  Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not. 
   6.   Toxic or Objectionable Wastes.  Any waters or wastes containing iron,
chromium, copper, zinc, and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or
wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such
material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials. 
   7.   Odor or Taste.  Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste
or odor producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits that may
be established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of State, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
   8.   Radioactive Wastes.  Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-
life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable State or federal regulations. 
   9.   Excess Alkalinity.  Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5. 
   10.   Unusual Wastes.  Materials that exert or cause:
      A.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
      B.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
      C.   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
      D.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein. 
   11.   Noxious or Malodorous Gases.  Any noxious or malodorous gas or other
substance that, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, is capable
of creating a public nuisance or hazard to life or of preventing entry into
sewers for their maintenance and repair. 
   12.   Damaging Substances.  Any waters, wastes, materials, or substances
that react with water or wastes in the sewer system to release noxious gases,
develop color of undesirable intensity, form suspended solids in objectionable
concentration or create any other condition deleterious to structures and
treatment processes. 
   13.   Untreatable Wastes.  Waters or wastes containing substances that are
not amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes
employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage
treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
97.05   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES; POWERS OF SUPERINTENDENT.
If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the
public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in Section
97.04 and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
   1.   Rejection.  Reject the wastes by requiring disconnection from the
public sewage system;
   2.   Pretreatment.  Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for
discharge to the public sewers;
   3.   Controls Imposed.  Require control over the quantities and rates of
discharge; and/or
   4.   Special Charges.  Require payment to cover the added cost of handling
and treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under
the provisions of
Chapter 99.
97.06   SPECIAL FACILITIES.
If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.  Where preliminary treatment or
flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
the owner’s expense.
97.07   CONTROL MANHOLES.
When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes.  Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent.  The manhole shall be installed by the owner at the owner’s
expense, and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
97.08   TESTING OF WASTES.
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole.  In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected.  Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property.  (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. 
Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids analyses are obtained
from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined from
periodic grab samples.)
CHAPTER 98
ON-SITE WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
 
98.01  When Prohibited            98.05  Discharge Restrictions
98.02  When Required              98.06  Maintenance of System
98.03  Compliance with Regulations98.07  Systems Abandoned
98.04  Permit Required            98.08  Disposal of Septage
 
98.01   WHEN PROHIBITED.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.02   WHEN REQUIRED.
When a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of Section
95.05, every building wherein persons reside, congregate or are employed shall
be provided with an approved on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system
complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
98.03   COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system shall comply with the specifications and
requirements set forth by the Iowa Administrative Code 567, Chapter 69, and
with such additional requirements as are prescribed by the regulations of the
County Board of Health.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3 & 4])
98.04   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall install or alter an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system without first obtaining a permit from the County Board of Health.
98.05   DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.
It is unlawful to discharge any wastewater from an on-site wastewater treatment
and disposal system (except under an NPDES permit) to any ditch, stream, pond,
lake, natural or artificial waterway, drain tile or to the surface of the
ground.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3]) 
98.06   MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
The owner of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system shall operate
and maintain the system in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to
the City.
98.07   SYSTEMS ABANDONED.
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by an on-
site wastewater treatment and disposal system, as provided in Section
95.05, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
these Sanitary Sewer chapters and the on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.08   DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE.
No person shall dispose of septage from an on-site treatment system at any
location except an approved disposal site.
CHAPTER 99
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
 
99.01  Sewer Service Charges Required99.04  Payment of Bills
99.02  Special Rates                 99.05  Lien for Nonpayment
99.03  Private Water Systems         99.06  Special Agreements Permitted
 
99.01   SEWER SERVICE CHARGES REQUIRED.
Each customer shall pay sewer service charges for the use of and for the
service supplied by the municipal sanitary sewer system in the following
amount:
 
                        Sewer Service Rate     Sewer Service Rate
                        Effective July 1, 2020 Effective July 1, 2021
Residence               $19.00                 $21.00
Multiple Unit Residence $19.00                 $21.00
Commercial              $19.00                 $21.00
 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.02   SPECIAL RATES.
Where, in the judgment of the Superintendent and the Council, special
conditions exist to the extent that the application of the sewer charges
provided in Section
99.01 would be inequitable or unfair to either the City or the customer, a
special rate shall be proposed by the Superintendent and submitted to the
Council for approval by resolution.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.03   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS.
Customers whose premises are served by a private water system shall pay sewer
charges based upon the water used as determined by the City either by an
estimate agreed to by the customer or by metering the water system at the
customer’s expense.  Any negotiated or agreed-upon sales or charges shall be
subject to approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.04   PAYMENT OF BILLS.
All sewer service charges are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section
92.04 of this Code of Ordinances.  Sewer service may be discontinued or
disconnected in accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
99.05   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.07 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof shall be jointly and severally liable for sewer
service charges to the premises.  Sewer service charges remaining unpaid and
delinquent shall constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and
shall be certified by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the
same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.06   SPECIAL AGREEMENTS PERMITTED.
No statement in these chapters shall be construed as preventing a special
agreement, arrangement, or contract between the Council, and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted subject to special conditions, rate, and cost as established by the
Council.
CHAPTER 105
SOLID WASTE CONTROL
 
105.01  Purpose                          105.07  Littering Prohibited
105.02  Definitions                      105.08  Toxic and Hazardous Waste
105.03  Sanitary Disposal Required       105.09  Waste Storage Containers
105.04  Health and Fire Hazard           105.10  Prohibited Practices
105.05  Open Burning Restricted          105.11  Sanitary Disposal Project
                                          Designated
105.06  Separation of Yard Waste Required
 
105.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters in this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Solid
Waste Control and Collection is to provide for the sanitary storage,
collection, and disposal of solid waste and, thereby, to protect the citizens
of the City from such hazards to their health, safety and welfare as may result
from the uncontrolled disposal of solid waste.
105.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Collector” means any person authorized to gather solid waste from
public and private places.
   2.   “Discard” means to place, cause to be placed, throw, deposit, or drop.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[1])
   3.   “Dwelling unit” means any room or group of rooms located within a
structure and forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used or
are intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
   4.   “Garbage” means all solid and semisolid, putrescible animal and
vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing,
serving and consuming of food or of material intended for use as food, and all
offal, excluding useful industrial by-products, and includes all such
substances from all public and private establishments and from all residences. 
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   5.   “Landscape waste” means any vegetable or plant waste except garbage. 
The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds,
leaves, grass, shrubbery, and yard trimmings. 
(IAC, 567-20.2[455B])
   6.   “Litter” means any garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, waste materials, or
debris not exceeding 10 pounds in weight or 15 cubic feet in volume.  Litter
includes but is not limited to empty beverage containers, cigarette butts, food
waste packaging, other food or candy wrappers, handbills, empty cartons, or
boxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[2])
   7.   “Owner” means, in addition to the record titleholder, any person
residing in, renting, leasing, occupying, operating or transacting business in
any premises, and as between such parties the duties, responsibilities,
liabilities and obligations hereinafter imposed shall be joint and several.
   8.   “Refuse” means putrescible and non-putrescible waste, including but not
limited to garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator residues, street cleanings,
market and industrial solid waste and sewage treatment waste in dry or
semisolid form. 
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   9.   “Residential premises” means a single-family dwelling and any multiple-
family dwelling.
   10.   “Residential waste” means any refuse generated on the premises as a
result of residential activities.  The term includes landscape waste grown on
the premises or deposited thereon by the elements, but excludes garbage, tires,
trade wastes and any locally recyclable goods or plastics.
(IAC, 567-20.2[455B])
   11.   “Rubbish” means non-putrescible solid waste consisting of combustible
and non-combustible waste, such as ashes, paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, or litter of any kind.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   12.   “Sanitary disposal” means a method of treating solid waste so that it
does not produce a hazard to the public health or safety or create a nuisance.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   13.   “Sanitary disposal project” means all facilities and appurtenances
(including all real and personal property connected with such facilities) that
are acquired, purchased, constructed, reconstructed, equipped, improved,
extended, maintained, or operated to facilitate the final disposition of solid
waste without creating a significant hazard to the public health or safety, and
which are approved by the Director of the State Department of Natural
Resources. “Sanitary disposal project” does not include a pyrolysis or
gasification facility as defined in Section 455B.301 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301) 
   14.   “Solid waste” means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar
discarded solid or semisolid materials, including but not limited to such
materials resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic
activities.  Solid waste may include vehicles, as defined by Section 321.1 of
the Code of Iowa.  Solid waste does not include any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
      A.   Hazardous waste regulated under the Federal Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6921-6934.
      B.   Hazardous waste as defined in Section 455B.411 of the Code of Iowa,
except to the extent that rules allowing for the disposal of specific wastes
have been adopted by the State Environmental Protection Commission.
      C.   Source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined in the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended to January 1, 1979.
      D.   Petroleum contaminated soil that has been remediated to acceptable
State or federal standards.
      E.   Steel slag which is a product resulting from the steel manufacturing
process and is managed as an item of value in a controlled manner and not as a
discarded material.
      F.   Material that is legitimately recycled pursuant to Section 455D.4A
of the Code of Iowa.
      G.   Post-use polymers or recoverable feedstocks that are any of the
following:
         (1)   Processed at a pyrolysis or gasification facility.
         (2)   Held at a pyrolysis or gasification facility prior to processing
to ensure production is not interrupted.
105.03   SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
It is the duty of each owner to provide for the sanitary disposal of all refuse
accumulating on the owner’s premises before it becomes a nuisance.  Any such
accumulation remaining on any premises for a period of more than 30 days shall
be deemed a nuisance and the City may proceed to abate such nuisances in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 50 or by initiating proper action in district court.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 657) 
105.04   HEALTH AND FIRE HAZARD.
It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any premises, improved
or vacant, or on any public place, such quantities of solid waste that
constitute a health, sanitation or fire hazard.
105.05   OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED.
No open burning shall be permitted within the City at any time, subject to the
following exemptions:
   1.   Cooking of Food.  Open fires used only for the cooking of food for
human consumption, or for recreational purposes.
   2.   Disaster Rubbish.  The open burning of rubbish and other debris
produced during community disasters in cases where the Mayor declares that a
local emergency condition exists in the area.
   3.   Flare Stacks.  Flare stacks for the combustion of waste gases.
   4.   Training Fires.  Fires set for the purpose of conducting bona fide
training of public or industrial employees in firefighting methods, provided
that the training fires are conducted in compliance with rules established by
the State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3g])
   5.   Controlled Burning of a Demolished Building.  The controlled burning of
a demolished building by the City, subject to approval of the Council, provided
that the controlled burning is conducted in accordance with rules and
limitations established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3j])
105.06   SEPARATION OF YARD WASTE REQUIRED.
All yard waste shall be separated by the owner or occupant from all other solid
waste accumulated on the premises and shall be composted on the premises or
placed in acceptable containers and set out for collection.  As used in this
section, “yard waste” means any debris such as grass clippings, leaves, garden
waste, brush, and trees.  Yard waste does not include tree stumps.
105.07   LITTERING PROHIBITED.
No person shall discard any litter onto or in any water or land, except that
nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authorized collection
and discarding of such litter in or on areas or receptacles provided for such
purpose.  When litter is discarded from a motor vehicle, the driver of the
motor vehicle shall be responsible for the act in any case where doubt exists
as to which occupant of the motor vehicle actually discarded the litter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.363)
105.08   TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS WASTE.
No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for
collection any toxic or hazardous waste.  Such materials shall be transported
and disposed of as prescribed by the Director of the State Department of
Natural Resources.  As used in this section, “toxic and hazardous waste” means
waste materials, including (but not limited to) poisons, pesticides,
herbicides, acids, caustics, pathological waste, flammable or explosive
materials, and similar harmful waste that requires special handling and that
must be disposed of in such a manner as to conserve the environment and protect
the public health and safety. 
(IAC, 567-100.2) 
(IAC, 567-102.13[2] and 400-27.14[2])
105.09   WASTE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   1.   Residential.  Waste storage containers shall be provided by the City to
every person owning, managing, operating, leasing, or renting any premises,
dwelling unit or any place where refuse accumulates.  Said persons shall at all
times maintain in good order and repair said containers.
   2.   Commercial.  Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing or
renting any commercial premises where an excessive amount of refuse accumulates
and where its storage in portable containers as required above is impractical,
shall maintain metal bulk storage containers approved by the City.
   3.   Storage of Containers.  Residential solid waste containers shall be
stored upon the residential premises.  Commercial solid waste containers shall
be stored upon private property, unless the owner has been granted written
permission from the City to use public property for such purposes.  The storage
site shall be well drained and fully accessible to collection equipment, public
health personnel, and fire inspection personnel.  All owners of residential and
commercial premises shall be responsible for proper storage of all garbage and
yard waste to prevent materials from being blown or scattered around
neighboring yards and streets.
   4.   Location of Containers for Collection.  Containers for the storage of
solid waste awaiting collection shall be placed outdoors at some easily
accessible place by the owner or occupant of the premises served.
   5.   Nonconforming Containers.  Solid waste placed in containers that are
not in compliance with the provisions of this section will not be collected.
105.10   PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
It is unlawful for any person to:
   1.   Unlawful Use of Containers.  Deposit refuse in any solid waste
containers not owned by such person without the written consent of the owner of
such containers. 
   2.   Interfere with Collectors.  Interfere in any manner with solid waste
collection equipment or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance
of their duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors be those of the
City, or those of any other authorized waste collection service. 
   3.   Incinerators.  Burn rubbish or garbage except in incinerators designed
for high temperature operation, in which solid, semisolid, liquid, or gaseous
combustible refuse is ignited and burned efficiently, and from which the solid
residues contain little or no combustible material, as acceptable to the
Environmental Protection Commission.
   4.   Scavenging.  Take or collect any solid waste that has been placed out
for collection on any premises, unless such person is an authorized solid waste
collector.
105.11   SANITARY DISPOSAL PROJECT DESIGNATED.
The sanitary landfill facilities operated by Plymouth County Solid Waste Agency
are hereby designated as the official “Public Sanitary Disposal Project” for
the disposal of solid waste produced or originating within the City.
CHAPTER 106
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
 
106.01  Collection Service     106.06  Right of Entry
106.02  Collection Vehicles    106.07  Contract Requirements
106.03  Loading                106.08  Collection Fees
106.04  Frequency of Collection106.09  Lien for Nonpayment
106.05  Bulky Rubbish
 
106.01   COLLECTION SERVICE.
The City shall provide by contract for the collection of all solid waste except
bulky rubbish as provided in Section
106.05 within the City.
106.02   COLLECTION VEHICLES.
Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of garbage
and similar putrescible waste or solid waste containing such materials shall be
leak-proof, durable and of easily cleanable construction.  They shall be
cleaned to prevent nuisances, pollution, or insect breeding and shall be
maintained in good repair.
(IAC, 567-104.9[455B])
106.03   LOADING.
Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of any solid
waste shall be loaded and moved in such a manner that the contents will not
fall, leak, or spill therefrom, and shall be covered to prevent blowing or loss
of material.  Where spillage does occur, the material shall be picked up
immediately by the collector or transporter and returned to the vehicle or
container and the area properly cleaned.
106.04   FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
All solid waste shall be collected from residential premises bi-weekly and from
commercial, industrial and institutional premises as frequently as may be
necessary, but not less than once each week.
106.05   BULKY RUBBISH.
Bulky rubbish that is too large or heavy to be collected in the normal manner
of other solid waste may be collected by the collector upon request in
accordance with procedures established by the Council.
106.06   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
Solid waste collectors are hereby authorized to enter upon private property for
the purpose of collecting solid waste, as required by this chapter; however,
solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling units or other residential
buildings.
106.07   CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.
No person shall engage in the business of collecting, transporting, processing
or disposing of solid waste for the City without first entering into a contract
with the City.  This section does not prohibit an owner from transporting solid
waste accumulating upon premises owned, occupied or used by such owner,
provided such refuse is disposed of properly in an approved sanitary disposal
project.  Furthermore, a contract is not required for the removal, hauling, or
disposal of earth and rock material from grading or excavation activities,
provided that all such materials are conveyed in tight vehicles, trucks or
receptacles so constructed and maintained that none of the material being
transported is spilled upon any public right-of-way.
106.08   COLLECTION FEES.
The collection and disposal of solid waste as provided by this chapter are
declared to be beneficial to the property served or eligible to be served and
there shall be levied and collected fees for the same, in accordance with the
following:
(Goreham vs. Des Moines, 1970, 179 NW 2nd, 449)
   1.   Fees for Collection.  The fee for solid waste collection and disposal
service, used or available, is $13.50 per month plus a landfill fee of $14.00.
(Subsection 1 - Ord. 255 - Apr. 21 Supp.)
   2.   Payment of Bills.  All fees are due and payable under the same terms
and conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained
in Section
92.04 of this Code of Ordinances.  Solid waste collection service may be
discontinued in accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
106.09   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.07 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof are jointly and severally liable for fees for solid
waste collection and disposal.  Fees remaining unpaid and delinquent shall
constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and shall be certified
by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as
property taxes. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
CHAPTER 110
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
 
110.01  Grant of Franchise                     110.05  Excavations
110.02  State Code Restrictions and Limitations110.06  Indemnification
110.03  Use of Public Ways                     110.07  Maintain Facilities
110.04  Relocation of Installations            110.08  Quantity and Quality
 
110.01   GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
There is hereby granted to MidAmerican Energy Company, an Iowa corporation,
hereinafter called “Company,” and to its successors and assigns the right and
franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain and operate in the City a gas
distribution system, to furnish natural gas along, under and upon the streets,
avenues, alleys and public places to serve customers within and without the
City and to furnish and sell natural gas to the City and its inhabitants.  For
the term of this franchise the Company is granted the right of eminent domain,
the exercise of which is subject to City Council approval upon application by
the Company.  This franchise shall be effective for an 18-year period from and
after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter 4 , up to
and including February 16, 2023.
 
Notes
4 †EDITOR’S NOTE:  Ordinance No. 176, adopting an gas franchise for the City, was
  passed and adopted on June 20, 2005. 
110.02   STATE CODE RESTRICTIONS AND LIMITATIONS.
The rights and privileges hereby granted are subject to the restrictions and
limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa.
110.03   USE OF PUBLIC WAYS.
Company shall have the right to excavate in any public street for the purpose
of laying, relaying, repairing or extending gas pipes, mains, conduits, and
other facilities provided that the same shall be so placed as not to interfere
with the construction of any water pipes, drain or sewer or the flow of water
therefrom, which have been or may hereafter be located by authority of the
City.
110.04   RELOCATION OF INSTALLATIONS.
The Company shall, at its cost and expense, locate and relocate its
installations in, on, over or under any public street or alley in the City in
such manner as the City may at any time reasonably require for the purposes of
facilitating the construction, reconstruction, maintenance or repair of the
street or alley or any public improvement of, in or about any such street or
alley or reasonably promoting the efficient operation of any such improvement. 
If the City has a reasonable alternative route for the street, alley or public
improvements, which alternative route would not cause the relocation of the
Company installations, the City shall consider but is not obligated to select
said alternative route.  If relocation of the Company facilities could be
avoided by relocating other franchisee’s or facility user’s equipment and
facilities, and said other franchisee’s or user’s cost of relocation is less
than the Company’s cost of relocation, the City shall consider but is not
obligated to select the route requires the other franchisees or users to
relocate.
110.05   EXCAVATIONS.
In making excavations in any streets, avenues, alleys and public places for the
installation of gas pipes, conduits or apparatus, Company shall not
unreasonably obstruct the use of the streets and shall replace the surface,
restoring the original condition as nearly as practicable.
110.06   INDEMNIFICATION.
Company shall indemnify and save harmless City from any and all claims, suits,
losses, damages, costs or expenses on account of injury or damage to any person
or property, caused or occasioned, or allegedly caused or occasioned, in whole
or in part, by Company’s negligence in construction, reconstruction,
excavation, operation or maintenance of the gas utilities authorized by this
franchise, provided, however, that the Company shall not be obligated to
defend, indemnify and save harmless the City for any costs or damages arising
from the negligence of the City, its officers, employees or agents.
110.07   MAINTAIN FACILITIES.
The Company shall extend its mains and pipes and operate, and maintain the
system in accordance with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities
Board or its successors.
110.08   QUANTITY AND QUALITY.
During the term of the franchise, the Company shall furnish natural gas in the
quantity and quality consistent with applicable Iowa laws and regulations.
CHAPTER 111
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
 
111.01  Grant of Franchise                     111.06  Indemnification
111.02  State Code Restrictions and Limitations111.07  Maintain Facilities
111.03  Use of Public Ways                     111.08  Quantity and Quality
111.04  Relocation of Installations            111.09  Police Regulations
111.05  Excavations
 
111.01   GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
There is hereby granted to MidAmerican Energy Company, an Iowa corporation,
hereinafter called the “Company,” and its successors and assigns, the right and
franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain and operate in the City a
system for the transmission and distribution of electric energy and
communications signals along, under, over and upon the streets, avenues, alleys
and public places to serve customers within and without the City, and to
furnish and sell electric energy to the City and its inhabitants.  This
franchise shall be effective for a 25-year period from and after the effective
date of the ordinance codified in this chapter. 5
 
Notes
5 †EDITOR’S NOTE:  Ordinance No. 130, adopting an electric franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on December 1, 1997. 
111.02   STATE CODE RESTRICTIONS AND LIMITATIONS.
The rights and privileges hereby granted are subject to the restrictions and
limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa or as subsequently amended or
changed.
111.03   USE OF PUBLIC WAYS.
The Company shall have the right to erect all necessary poles and to place
thereon the necessary wires, fixtures and accessories as well as excavate and
bury conductors for the distribution of electric energy and communications
signals in and through the City, but all said conduits and poles shall be
placed as not to interfere with the construction of any water pipes, drain or
sewer, or the flow of water therefrom, which have been or may hereafter be
located by authority of the City.  The Company is authorized and empowered to
cut and trim at its expense, any trees extending into any street, alley, or
public ground so as to prevent limbs or branches from interfering with the
wires and facilities of the Company.
111.04   RELOCATION OF INSTALLATIONS.
The Company shall, at its cost and expense, locate and relocate its
installations in, on, over or under any public street or alley in the City in
such manner as the City may at any time reasonably require for the purposes of
facilitating the construction, reconstruction, maintenance or repair of the
street or alley or any public improvement of, in or about any such street or
alley or reasonably promoting the efficient operation of any such improvement. 
If the City has a reasonable alternative route for the street, alley or public
improvements which alternative route would not cause the relocation of the
Company installations, the City shall select said alternative route.  If
relocation of the Company facilities could be avoided by relocating other
franchisee’s or facility user’s equipment and facilities, and said other
franchisee’s or user’s cost of relocation is less than the Company’s, the City
shall select the route which requires the other franchisees or users to
relocate.  If project funds from a source other than the City are available to
pay for the relocation of utility facilities, the City shall use its best
efforts to secure said funds and provide them to the Company to compensate the
Company for the costs of relocation.
111.05   EXCAVATIONS.
In making excavations in any streets, avenues, alleys and public places for the
excavation of conduits or the erection of poles and wires or other appliances,
the Company shall not unreasonably obstruct the use of the streets, and shall
replace the surface, restoring the original condition as nearly as practicable.
111.06   INDEMNIFICATION.
The Company shall indemnify and save harmless the City from any and all claims,
suits, losses, damages, costs or expenses, on account of injury or damage to
any person or property, caused or occasioned in whole or in part, by the
Company’s negligence in construction, reconstruction, excavation, operation or
maintenance of the electric facilities authorized by this franchise; provided,
however, that the Company shall not be obligated to defend, indemnify and save
harmless the City for any costs or damages arising from the negligence of the
City, its officers, employees or agents.
111.07   MAINTAIN FACILITIES.
The Company shall construct, operate and maintain its facilities in accordance
with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board or its successors.
111.08   QUANTITY AND QUALITY.
During the term of this franchise, the Company shall furnish electric energy in
the quantity and quality consistent with applicable Iowa laws and regulations.
111.09   POLICE REGULATIONS.
All reasonable and proper police regulations shall be adopted and enforced by
the City for the protection of the facilities of the Company.
CHAPTER 112
TELEPHONE FRANCHISE
 
112.01  Grant of Franchise112.02  Term
 
112.01   GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
The Western Iowa Telephone Association (“Company”) shall be granted a
nonexclusive right, power, privilege and authority to construct, install,
lease, operate and maintain a telephone and video services platform including
and with the necessary nodes, wires, line and appliances and other equipment
upon, under and over the streets, alleys, and public places in the City. 6
 
Notes
6 †EDITOR’S NOTE:  Ordinance No. 169, adopting an telephone franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on June 7, 2004. 
112.02   TERM.
The nonexclusive franchise shall be for 25 years from June 7, 2004, to June 7,
2029.
CHAPTER 113
CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
 
113.01  Franchise Grant113.02  Rights Conferred by Franchise
 
113.01   FRANCHISE GRANT.
Pursuant to law, a nonexclusive franchise is granted to WIATEL, Inc.,
hereinafter “Grantee,” to construct, own, and operate a cable television system
in the City.  This nonexclusive franchise is granted for a period of 15 years,
said period to commence December 1, 2009, and end December 1, 2024.  This
franchise shall vest all the rights, privileges, and immunities of a cable
system with WIATEL, Inc.; however, this franchise shall be subject to and
conditional upon all the terms, conditions, duties, and obligations established
by the Federal Communications Commission and this chapter. 7
 
Notes
7 †EDITOR’S NOTE:  Ordinance No. 196, adopting an cable franchise for the City, was
  passed and adopted on December 7, 2009. 
113.02   RIGHTS CONFERRED BY FRANCHISE.
   1.   This chapter confers upon the Grantee the nonexclusive rights,
authority, power and franchise to establish, construct, acquire, own, operate,
and maintain a cable television system within the City, and to render, furnish
and sell such service to the inhabitants of the City and its environs, and to
use and occupy the streets and other public places within the designated limits
of the City as the same now exists or may hereafter exist for its cable system,
including the right to enter and construct, erect, locate, relocate, repair,
and rebuild, in, on, under, along, over, and across the streets, alleys,
avenues, parkways, lanes, bridges, and to make use of all land dedicated or
acquired for public use and locations approved by the City Engineer, and other
public places in the City, for all towers, poles, cables, amplifiers, conduits
and other facilities owned, leased, or otherwise used by Grantee for the
furnishing of cable service within the City during the continuance of the
franchise hereby granted, and in accordance with the laws, statutes,
ordinances, rules and regulations of the United States, the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) , the State of Iowa, the County and the City.
   2.   The poles for the Grantee’s distribution system shall be those erected
and maintained by anyone authorized to maintain poles in the streets or public
ways when and where practicable.  It is contemplated that reasonable standard
pole attachment agreements will be entered into with non-municipal utilities as
required by Evertek, Inc.  Grantee is specifically granted the right to set its
own poles in the event reasonable joint use is not possible or feasible.  In
any areas where electric or telephone utilities are underground and in any new
subdivisions or new additions where said utilities are underground, the Grantee
will lay its cable underground.
   3.   The City reserves the right of reasonable regulation of the erection,
construction or installation of any facilities by the Grantee and to reasonably
designate where such facilities are to be placed within the public ways and
places.
   4.   Installation of Cable System.
      A.   The installation of the cable system shall be in accordance with the
requirements of the National Electric Safety Code, and all applicable rules and
regulations of the Federal Communications Commission.
      B.   The Grantee, at its expense, shall have the authority to trim trees
upon and overhanging streets, alley, sidewalks, and public places of the City
so as to prevent the branches of such trees from coming in contact with the
wires and cables of Grantee.
      C.   The Grantee shall at its expense, protect, support, temporarily
disconnect, relocate or remove any property of the Grantee located upon
streets, rights-of-way and easements of the City, when required by the City
because of traffic conditions, public safety, street vacation, street
construction, change or establishment of street grade, installation of sewers,
drains, water pipes, municipal power lines, and tracks or any other type of
structure or improvement by the City on City facilities.
      D.   Any pavements, sidewalks, or curbing taken up by Grantee, and any
and all excavation made by Grantee shall be done only after notice to City, and
shall be done in such a manner so as to cause the least reasonable
inconvenience to the inhabitants to the City and to the general public.  All
repairs and replacements shall be made at the expense of the Grantee, with all
reasonable speed, leaving such disturbed areas in as good condition as existed
prior to any such taking up or excavation.
   5.   Relocation of Property.  The Grantee, at the request of any person
holding a permit issued by the City, shall temporarily remove, raise or lower
its wires or cables to permit the moving of buildings or equipment.  The
expense of such temporary removal, raising or lowering shall be paid by the
person requesting the same, and the Grantee may require such payment in
advance.  The Grantee shall be given not less than 72 hours’ advance notice for
such temporary wire or cable change.  The charge by the Grantee for such
relocation shall not exceed Grantee's cost, and in any event shall not be more
than a reasonable sum for such services.
   6.   Rates and Charges.  The Grantee shall have the authority to promulgate
such rules, regulations, terms and conditions of its business as shall be
reasonably necessary to enable the Grantee to exercise its rights and perform
its services under the franchise and to assure an uninterrupted service to each
and all of its customers.
   7.   Indemnification.  The Grantee agrees to hold and save said City
harmless from any and all liability that may arise out of the construction,
maintenance, operations or use of Grantee’s system and works and the provision
cable television services.  The Grantee agrees to provide and keep in force
adequate liability insurance therefor, to the extent of bodily injury limits of
$500,000/$500,000 and of property damage limit of $300,000/$300,000, naming the
City as an additional insured, as its interest may appear. Grantee shall also
provide and maintain insurance under a Broad Form Automobile Policy, with
$100,000/$500,000 coverage limits and Worker’s Compensation insurance with Iowa
statutory limits.  All insurance shall be issued by a company authorized to do
business in the State of Iowa, and shall be provided before the Grantee, its
successors and assigns shall commence the construction or other operations
mentioned in this section.  The City shall notify the Grantee’s representative
or employee in the City, if any, within 10 days after presentation of any
demand or claim that may arise, whether by suit or otherwise, against the
City.  Grantee shall maintain on file with the City Clerk at all times a
current certificate of insurance.  All insurance policies shall, if possible,
provide for not less than 30 days’ notice of cancellation.  The policies
mentioned herein shall name the City, its officers, boards, commissions, agents
and employees as additional insureds .
   8.   Payment to the City.  In consideration of the rights, privileges, and
franchise hereby granted, and as compensation to the City for the use of its
public ways and places by the Grantee, and to properly regulate the activities
of Grantee, the Grantee shall, on or before the last day of January and the
last day of July of each year to which this franchise is effective, pay to the
City a sum equal to five percent of gross subscriber revenues for cable
television service within the then existing corporate limits of the City for
the preceding six-month period ending on the last day of December and the last
day of June respectively.  The books of Grantee shall be open to inspection by
the City at all reasonable times to verify the accuracy of the computation and
correctness of the report which shall accompany payment.  Grantee shall keep
books and records pursuant to established practices using generally accepted
auditing procedures.
   9.   Customer Service.  Grantee shall maintain a toll-free telephone number
whereby residents of the City may leave requests for service, repairs or
adjustments, and leave other messages or complaints, with the Grantee at any
time during normal business hours, all without any toll charges to any resident
or customer.
   10.   Service to Public Buildings.
      A.   If an existing distribution or trunk cable passes through the
immediate area, the Grantee shall provide cable services on the request of and
at no cost to the City or to the site, when the requested site includes one of
the following: a fire or police department, public school or administrative
building, City Hall or public facility, or educational institution.
      B.   The Grantee shall also provide for a two-way broadband
communications capability between the Grantee’s headend and the City’s high
school prior to the beginning of the Fall 2010 school semester.
   11.   Franchise Termination.  If the Grantee should violate any of the
terms, conditions or provisions of this franchise, or if the Grantee should
fail to comply with any reasonable provision of any ordinance of the City
regulating the use by the Grantee of the streets, alleys, easements, or public
ways of the City, or if the Grantee shall become insolvent, unable, or
unwilling to pay its debts, or Grantee abandons the cable system, or after
having constructed and placed all or any portion thereof in operation, for any
reason fails to operate it for a period of 30 days, any such violation
continues for 30 days after the Grantee shall have been notified in writing by
the City to desist from such violation so specified, or if the Grantee is
adjudged a bankrupt, or there is notice of a prospective foreclosure or other
judicial sale of all or a substantial part of the system, or Grantee is found
to have practiced any fraud upon the City, then the City may terminate and
cancel this franchise, and thereupon all of the rights and privileges granted
by this franchise, shall be deemed to have been forfeited and annulled.  In the
event such forfeiture is imposed, the Grantee shall be afforded a period of six
months after a final order of forfeiture, and including any appeal thereof,
within which to sell, transfer, convey or otherwise deemed to have been
forfeited and annulled.  In the event such forfeiture is imposed, the Grantee
shall be afforded a period of six months to sell, transfer, convey or otherwise
dispose of the above described cable television system to a qualified purchaser
at fair market value.  During the six-month period the Grantee shall operate
the cable television system pursuant to the terms and provisions of this
franchise.
   12.   Plat of System.  Grantee shall file with the City and obtain approval
thereof, a proper map showing and describing the exact location or proposal
location of all its facilities within the City streets, alleys and public ways.
   13.   Complete Agreement.  All ordinances and parts of ordinances in
conflict herewith are hereby repealed as of the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this chapter, excluding however all public utility franchises
heretofore granted to public utilities, including utilities regulated by the
public Utility Commission.
CHAPTER 115
CEMETERY
 
115.01  Definition                       115.05  Sale of Interment Rights
115.02  Trusteeship                      115.06  Perpetual Care
115.03  Cemetery Superintendent Appointed115.07  Annual Care
115.04  Duties of Superintendent         115.08  Rules and Regulations
 
115.01   DEFINITION.
The term “cemetery” means the Kingsley Cemetery, which is a municipal cemetery
under the provisions of Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa and which shall be
operated under the provisions of Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa and this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.501)
115.02   TRUSTEESHIP.  Pursuant to Section 523I.502 of the Code of Iowa, the
City Council hereby states its willingness and intention to act as the trustee
for the perpetual maintenance of the cemetery property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.502)
115.03   CEMETERY SUPERINTENDENT APPOINTED.
The Council shall appoint a Cemetery Superintendent who shall operate the
cemetery in accordance with applicable rules and regulations and under the
direction of the Council. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
115.04   DUTIES OF SUPERINTENDENT.
The duties of the Cemetery Superintendent are as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Supervise Openings.  Supervise the opening of all graves and be present
at every interment in the cemetery. 
115.05   SALE OF INTERMENT RIGHTS.
The sale or transfer of interment rights in the cemetery shall be evidenced by
a certificate of interment rights or other instrument evidencing the conveyance
of exclusive rights of interment upon payment in full of the purchase price. 
The agreement for interment rights shall disclose all information required by
Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa.  Fees and charges shall be based upon the
charges as established by the Council in Section 115.10.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.310)
115.06   PERPETUAL CARE.
The Council, by resolution, shall accept, receive, and expend all moneys and
property donated or left to them by bequest for perpetual care, and that
portion of interment space sales or permanent charges made against interment
spaces which has been set aside in a perpetual care fund.  The assets of the
perpetual care fund shall be invested in accordance with State law.  The
Council, by resolution, shall provide for the payment of interest annually to
the appropriate fund, or to the cemetery, or to the person in charge of the
cemetery, to be used in caring for or maintaining the individual property of
the donor in the cemetery or interment spaces that have been sold with
provisions for perpetual care, all in accordance with the terms of the donation
or bequest or the terms of the sale or purchase of an interment space and
Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.503, 523I.507 & 523I.508)
115.07   ANNUAL CARE.
An annual care charge, as specified in the rules and regulations, shall be made
by the City on those lots in the older portions of the cemetery which are not
at present under perpetual or endowed care.  The City reserves the right to
refuse to furnish maintenance service, or to permit the erection of any
monumental work on those lots not under perpetual or endowed care or when the
annual care on such lot has not been paid in advance.
115.08   RULES AND REGULATIONS.
Rules and regulations for the cemetery may be adopted, and may be amended from
time to time, by resolution of the Council and may cover such things as the
use, care, control, management, restrictions and protection of the cemetery as
necessary for the proper conduct of the business of the cemetery.  The rules
shall specify the cemetery’s obligations in the event that interment spaces,
memorials, or memorializations are damaged or defaced by acts of vandalism. 
Any veteran, as defined in Section 35.1 of the Code of Iowa, who is a landowner
or who lives within the City shall be allowed to purchase an interment space
and to be interred within the cemetery.  In addition, any veteran who purchases
an interment space within the cemetery shall be allowed to purchase an
interment space for interment of the spouse of the veteran if such a space is
available, and the surviving spouse of a veteran interred within the cemetery
shall be allowed to purchase an interment space and be interred within the
cemetery if such a space is available.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.304)
CHAPTER 116
KINGSLEY CEMETERY RULES AND REGULATIONS
 
116.01  Lots and Lot Regulations116.04  Visitors
116.02  Memorials               116.05  Prices, Fees, and Dues
116.03  Interment and Funerals
 
116.01   LOTS AND LOT REGULATIONS.
All lots shall be held as burial places for the human dead, and for no other
purpose, subject to the following regulations:
   1.   Sales of Lots.  The term “lot owner” is intended to mean and shall be
construed as meaning the owner of burial privileges only and right of use in
any burial lot or fractional lot, purchased from the City of Kingsley for a
consideration, evidenced by a deed or by a proved and recognized descendant. 
Lots in the Kingsley Cemetery are conveyed, by deed, for burial purposes only
in accordance with the cemetery rules and regulations in effect at the time of
burial.  They are exempt from taxation and cannot be seized for debt, nor can
they be mortgaged.  Deeds are issued after lot(s) are paid in full.
   2.   Sale By Owners.  The City does not repurchase lots previously sold. 
Lots may be donated back to the City with appropriate documentation of
ownership.  Sale of lots by lot owners shall not be permitted except by
registration with the City.
   3.   Transfer By Owners.  No transfer of a lot by sale or otherwise shall be
valid without registration with the City.
   4.   Lots Abandon.  City may file an action to quiet title to determine
whether the lot has been abandoned if the lot is unoccupied in the preceding 75
years.  The City must notice on the owner of record or the owner’s heirs
declaring the lot is considered to be abandoned.  If the owner or heirs do not
respond within three years from the date that the notice is service, the
abandonment is considered to be complete.  The ownership in or right to an
abandoned lot shall revert to the City and the City may sell and convey title
to the lot.  Service of notice shall be served personally or by mailing notice
by certified mail at the last known address.  If the address cannot be
ascertained, notice of abandonment shall be given by one publication of the
notice in the official newspaper of the City.
116.02   MEMORIALS.
The following regulations shall apply to memorials within the Kingsley
Cemetery.
   1.   Foundations.  No memorial work of any kind shall be set without a
foundation.  The term memorial means any stone, marker, or monument marking a
grave site.
   2.   Memorials.  The marker shall be set on the west edge of the lot line
with the marker facing west and every memorial shall have a foundation with a
five inch flange around said marker.  All monuments, markers, and other items
shall be installed by a professional monument company.
   3.   Settings for a single marker shall be centered in the space and
settings for a double marker shall be centered on the two lots.
   4.   All memorials must comply with cemetery rules.  In the event of
noncompliance, the person installing the memorial is responsible for removal of
the memorial and shall pay any reasonable expenses incurred by the City in
connection with the memorial’s removal.
   5.   If a memorial sinks, tilts, or becomes misaligned within 12 months of
its installation, and the City believes the cause is faulty installation, the
City shall send notice to the person who installed the memorial in writing. 
The person who installed the memorial shall be responsible to correct the
damage.
   6.   Contractors and workmen engaged in the setting of memorials shall be
held responsible for any and all damage done to the cemetery grounds and shall
be prohibited from attaching ropes to trees, shrubs, or other memorials and
from scattering material on adjoining lots.
   7.   No memorial may be erected on any lot until the purchase price of the
lot and open/close fees, if appropriate, have been fully paid and a deed issued
for the same.
   8.   Maintenance of the cemetery does not include repairs to a memorial
which individually identifies a deceased.  In the event the monument or marker
becomes hazardous or unsightly, the Council may determine what action will be
taken which may include removal of the monument or marker.
   9.   The memorial is the private property of the owner and/or subsequent
heir(s).  Each lot owner shall keep in good repair all memorial work upon their
lot.  In case of failure to do so, the City may either repair or have repaired,
or remove the same at the lot owner’s expense.  If the City is unable to locate
the owner and/or their heir of a memorial which is in need of repair, the City
may authorize reasonable repairs to be paid for by the City.  The City is not
obligated to repair a memorial to its approximate state when original.  The
City has a right to remove a memorial that is in disrepair.  The City is not
obligated to replace a memorial with the like or same.
116.03   INTERMENT AND FUNERALS.
   1.   Arrangements for interment shall be made with the City at least two
days prior to the interment.
   2.   The person applying for the permit shall furnish the following
information:  full name of decease, date of interment, location of grave, type
of burial, outside size or dimensions of coffin or vault, funeral home handling
the service, and the next of kin information.
   3.   Lot owners, or their heirs, desiring graves opened will be required to
exhibit the deed for the lot or give other satisfactory evidence of ownership. 
If an order is given for the interment of a person who is not a member of the
immediate family, permission in writing from the lot owner, or if deceased,
their immediate heirs, must be filed at City Hall and such permission shall not
be for renumeration.  The City is not liable for relying upon such written
declaration of ownership and/or permission if due diligence is exercised.
   4.   The same information shall be required when a body is removed from tone
part of the cemetery to another as prescribed for permits for interment.  Lot
owners, or their heirs shall secure the necessary disinterment permit from the
state and deliver the same to City Hall.  A person, or persons seeking
reopening of a grave will be responsible for all costs related to the
reopening.
   5.   In the event the City receives cremated remains for disposition that
are not presented to the City in a permanent urn or other permanent-type
storage device, it is not possible after these cremains are disposed of to
ensure that the cremains can be located in the future.  The City assumes no
responsibility for the location of cremains disposed of in anything other than
a permanent structure.  Those electing to direct disposition in such a fashion
assume any and all risks associated with the disposition and subsequent
inability to locate the same.
   6.   All graves shall be dug under the direction of City employees and the
charges therefore shall include the opening and closing of the graves, as well
as sodding or seeding the area after proper settling of the ground has taken
place.
   7.   When an undertaker having charge of burial orders the location of a
grave, no change of location, after interment, shall be made, except at the
expense of the lot owner.  The City shall not be responsible for want of
precise and proper instructions as to the location of a grave.
   8.   If the lot owner or funeral home incorrectly identified the lot
location, the lot owner will pay the expense after the opening of the incorrect
grave has begun.  If the City incorrectly identified the lot location based on
the City’s records, the City will pay the expense after the opening of the
incorrect grave has begun.  The City is not civilly or criminally liable for an
erroneously made interment that is corrected in compliance with state law
unless the error was the result of gross negligence or intentional misconduct.
   9.   The internment of one standard vault burial, one standard vault burial
and one cremain, one standard vault for ashes, one standard vault for ashes and
one cremain, two standard vaults for ashes, one cremain burial or two cremain
burials is the maximum allowed in one lot.  The spreading of cremated remains
above ground is strictly prohibited.
   10.   The placement of a casket in the cemetery must be in a concrete or
steel container.  Vaults are not required for cremains.
   11.   For sanitary reasons, graves will not be opened for inspection except
for official investigation.  A person or persons seeking reopening of a grave
will be responsible for all costs related to the reopening.
   12.   Interment of a human body when death was caused by a contagious
disease shall be in strict accordance with the rules of the State Board of
Health.
   13.   The City shall in no way be liable for any delay in the interment of a
body where a protest to the interment has been made.  Protest of interment
shall not be valid unless it is in writing and filed with the City Clerk.
   14.   When more than one burial occurs in a one or two day period, City
employees shall schedule them in as prompt and efficient a manner as possible,
working in close cooperation with the funeral director(s).
   15.   City representatives or their designee shall attend every interment
and see that the rules, regulations, and strict properties of the cemetery are
observed.
116.04   VISITORS.
   1.   Visitors shall be admitted to the grounds between sunrise and sundown
but no visitors or vehicles shall be permitted on the grounds between sundown
and sunrise.
   2.   Any person who trespasses upon the Kingsley Cemetery by defacing,
damaging, destroying, or removing any memorial or other form of notification
identifying the location of the deceased, grave, burial, or other form of
interment; or any grounds or vegetation (flower, shrub, tree, etc.); or
physical improvements (fence, gate, sidewalk, building, etc.); or anything in
or belonging to the City or cemetery, is guilty of a simple misdemeanor and
liable for any and all damage.
   3.   The carrying or discharging of firearms by any person on the grounds of
the cemetery is prohibited, except at military funerals.
   4.   No dogs shall be allowed in the cemetery.
   5.   No automobiles, bicycles, or other vehicles shall be driven off the
roadways or driveways.  All vehicles must proceed at slow speed and be kept
under complete control at all times.
   6.   No person shall enter the cemetery except through duly established
gateways.
   7.   No person shall deposit rubbish, papers, dried flowers, or other waste
upon the cemetery grounds.
   8.   The City limits the placement of flowers or decorations on graves from
two weeks before Memorial Day to two weeks after Memorial Day.  After that date
any flowers or decorations will be disposed of.  Exceptions to this rule are
flowers in vases or urns that are part of the memorial stones.
   9.   Complaints or questions should be directed to City Hall.
116.05   PRICES, FEES, AND DUES.
The following prices, fees, and dues shall apply to the purchase of lots and
the provisions of services at the cemetery.
   1.   The price to purchase a lot within the cemetery is $300.00 per single
space.
   2.   Interment fees include the opening, closing, and seeding or sodding of
graves and shall be as follows:
      A.   Regular graves   $500.00
      B.   Vault for ashes   $400.00
      C.   Winter rate regular burial (requiring thawing)   $650.00
      D.   Cremated remains in containers (in ground)   $300.00
Fees for grave opening or interment on Sundays or legal holidays are double the
normal rate.
   3.   Services provided on Saturday shall include an additional fee of
$125.00.
   4.   Fees may be changed by the City Council from time to time, without
advance notice, to conform with current economic conditions.
CHAPTER 120
LIQUOR LICENSES AND WINE AND BEER PERMITS
 
120.01  License or Permit Required120.04  Action by Council
120.02  General Prohibition       120.05  Prohibited Sales and Acts
120.03  Investigation             120.06  Amusement Devices
 
120.01   LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall manufacture for sale, import, sell, or offer or keep for sale,
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer without first securing a liquor control
license, wine permit, or beer permit in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.22, 123.122 & 123.171)
120.02   GENERAL PROHIBITION.
It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, sell, offer or keep for sale, possess
or transport alcoholic liquor, wine or beer except upon the terms, conditions,
limitations, and restrictions enumerated in Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa,
and a license or permit may be suspended or revoked or a civil penalty may be
imposed for a violation thereof. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.2, 123.39 & 123.50)
120.03   INVESTIGATION.
Upon receipt of an application for a liquor license, wine or beer permit, the
Clerk may forward it to the Police Chief, who shall then conduct an
investigation and submit a written report as to the truth of the facts averred
in the application.  The Fire Chief may also inspect the premises to determine
if they conform to the requirements of the City.  The Council shall not approve
an application for a license or permit for any premises that does not conform
to the applicable law and ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.30)
120.04   ACTION BY COUNCIL.
The Council shall either approve or disapprove the issuance of the liquor
control license or retail wine or beer permit and shall endorse its approval or
disapproval on the application, and thereafter the application, necessary fee
and bond, if required, shall be forwarded to the Alcoholic Beverages Division
of the State Department of Commerce for such further action as is provided by
law. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.32[2])
120.05   PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS.
A person or club holding a liquor license or retail wine or beer permit and the
person’s or club’s agents or employees shall not do any of the following:
   1.   Sell, dispense, or give to any intoxicated person, or one simulating
intoxication, any alcoholic beverage. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[1])
   2.   Sell or dispense any alcoholic beverage on the premises covered by the
license or permit, or permit its consumption thereon between the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on a weekday, and between the hours of 2:00 a.m. on Sunday
and 6:00 a.m. on the following Monday; however, a holder of a liquor control
license or retail wine or beer permit granted the privilege of selling
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer on Sunday may sell or dispense alcoholic
liquor, wine, or beer between the hoursof 8:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. of
the following Monday, and further provided that a holder of any class of liquor
control license or the holder of a Class “B” beer permit may sell or dispense
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer for consumption on the premises between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on Monday when that Monday is New
Year’s Day and beer for consumption off the premises between the hours of 8:00
a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on the following Monday when that Sunday is the
day before New Year’s Day.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2b] & 123.150)
   3.   Sell alcoholic beverages to any person on credit, except with a bona
fide credit card.  This provision does not apply to sales by a club to its
members, to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide registered guests or to
retail sales by the managing entity of a convention center, civic center, or
events center.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2c])
   4.   Employ a person under 18 years of age in the sale or serving of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2f])
   5.   In the case of a retail wine or beer permittee, knowingly allow the
mixing or adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to wine, beer, or any
other beverage in or about the permittee’s place of business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2i])
   6.   Knowingly permit any gambling, except in accordance with Iowa law, or
knowingly permit any solicitation for immoral purposes, or immoral or
disorderly conduct on the premises covered by the license or permit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2a])
   7.   Knowingly permit or engage in any criminal activity on the premises
covered by the license or permit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2j])
   8.   Keep on premises covered by a liquor control license any alcoholic
liquor in any container except the original package purchased from the
Alcoholic Beverages Division of the State Department of Commerce and except
mixed drinks or cocktails mixed on the premises for immediate consumption. 
However, mixed drinks or cocktails that are mixed on the premises and are not
for immediate consumption may be consumed on the licensed premises, subject to
rules adopted by the Alcoholic Beverages Division.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2d])
   9.   Reuse for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine any container or
receptacle used originally for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine; or
adulterate, by the addition of any substance, the contents or remaining
contents of an original package of an alcoholic liquor or wine; or knowingly
possess any original package that has been reused or adulterated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2e])
   10.   Allow any person other than the licensee, permittee, or employees of
the licensee or permittee to use or keep on the licensed premises any alcoholic
liquor in any bottle or other container that is designed for the transporting
of such beverages, except as allowed by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2g])
   11.   Sell, give, possess, or otherwise supply a machine that is used to
vaporize an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of being consumed in a vaporized
form.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[21])
120.06   AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
The following provisions pertain to electrical or mechanical amusement devices
possessed and used in accordance with Chapter 99B of the Code of Iowa.  (Said
devices are allowed only in premises with a liquor control license or beer
permit, as specifically authorized in said Chapter 99B.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 99B.57)
   1.   As used in this section, “registered electrical or mechanical amusement
device” means an electrical or mechanical device required to be registered with
the Iowa Department of Inspection and Appeals, as provided in Section 99B.53 of
the Code of Iowa.
   2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to participate in the
operation of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   3.   It is unlawful for any person owning or leasing a registered electrical
or mechanical amusement device, or an employee of a person owning or leasing a
registered electrical or mechanical amusement device, to knowingly allow a
person under the age of 21 to participate in the operation of a registered
electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   4.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly participate in the operation
of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device with a person under
the age of 21.
CHAPTER 121
CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO PERMITS
 
121.01  Definitions            121.06  Refunds
121.02  Permit Required        121.07  Persons Under Legal Age
121.03  Application            121.08  Self-Service Sales Prohibited
121.04  Fees                   121.09  Permit Revocation
121.05  Issuance and Expiration
 
121.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.1)
   1.   “Alternative nicotine product” means a product, not consisting of or
containing tobacco, that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing, or
by any other means.  “Alternative nicotine product” does not include
cigarettes, tobacco products, or vapor products, or a product that is regulated
as a drug or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under
Chapter V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   2.   “Cigarette” means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of
tobacco, or any substitute for tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and
irrespective of tobacco or any substitute for tobacco being flavored,
adulterated, or mixed with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper
or cover made of paper or any other material.  However, cigarette shall not be
construed to include cigars.
   3.   “Place of business” means any place where cigarettes, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or vapor products are sold, stored, or kept for
the purpose of sale or consumption by a retailer.
   4.   “Retailer” means every person who sells, distributes or offers for sale
for consumption, or possesses for the purpose of sale for consumption,
cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products, irrespective of
the quantity or amount or the number of sales, or who engages in the business
of selling tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products to ultimate consumers.
   5.   “Self-service display” means any manner of product display, placement,
or storage from which a person purchasing the product may take possession of
the product, prior to purchase, without assistance from the retailer or
employee of the retailer, in removing the product from a restricted access
location.
   6.   “Tobacco products” means the following:  cigars; little cigars;
cheroots; stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed and
other smoking tobacco; snuff; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and
other chewing tobaccos; shorts or refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings and
sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such
manner as to be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or for
both chewing and smoking, but does not mean cigarettes.
   7.   “Vapor product” means any noncombustible product, which may or may not
contain nicotine, that employs a heating element, power source, electronic
circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of
shape or size, that can be used to produce vapor from a solution or other
substance.  “Vapor product” includes an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device, and any
cartridge or other container of a solution or other substance, which may or may
not contain nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar
product or device.  “Vapor product” does not include a product regulated as a
drug or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter
V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
121.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   1.   Retail Cigarette Permits.  It is unlawful for any person, other than a
holder of a retail permit, to sell cigarettes, alternative nicotine products,
or vapor products at retail and no retailer shall distribute, sell, or solicit
the sale of any cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products
within the City without a valid permit for each place of business.  The permit
shall, at all times, be publicly displayed at the place of business so as to be
easily seen by the public and the persons authorized to inspect the place of
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13)
   2.   Retail Tobacco Permits.  It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a retailer of tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products at any place of business without first having
received a permit as a retailer for each place of business owned or operated by
the retailer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A)
A retailer who holds a retail cigarette permit is not required to also obtain a
retail tobacco permit.  However, if a retailer only holds a retail cigarette
permit and that permit is suspended, revoked, or expired, the retailer shall
not sell any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products, during such time.
121.03   APPLICATION.
A completed application on forms furnished by the State Department of Revenue
or on forms made available or approved by the Department and accompanied by the
required fee shall be filed with the Clerk.  Renewal applications shall be
filed at least five days prior to the last regular meeting of the Council in
June.  If a renewal application is not timely filed, and a special Council
meeting is called to act on the application, the costs of such special meeting
shall be paid by the applicant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 & 453A.47A)
121.04   FEES.
The fee for a retail cigarette or tobacco permit shall be as follows: 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 & 453A.47A)
 
FOR PERMITS GRANTED DURING:   FEE:
July, August or September     $ 75.00
October, November or December $ 56.25
January, February or March    $ 37.50
April, May or June            $ 18.75
 
121.05   ISSUANCE AND EXPIRATION.
Upon proper application and payment of the required fee, a permit shall be
issued.  Each permit issued shall describe clearly the place of business for
which it is issued and shall be nonassignable.  All permits expire on June 30
of each year.  The Clerk shall submit a duplicate of any application for a
permit to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce within
30 days of issuance of a permit.
121.06   REFUNDS.
A retailer may surrender an unrevoked permit and receive a refund from the
City, except during April, May, or June, in accordance with the schedule of
refunds as provided in Section 453A.13 or 453A.47A of the Code of Iowa. 
(Code of Iowa, 453A.13 & 453A.47A)
121.07   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
A person shall not sell, give, or otherwise supply any tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes to any
person under 21 years of age.  The provision of this section includes
prohibiting a person under 21 years of age from purchasing tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, and cigarettes from a
vending machine.  If a retailer or employee of a retailer violates the
provisions of this section, the Council shall, after written notice and
hearing, and in addition to the other penalties fixed for such violation,
assess the following:
   1.   For a first violation, the retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty
in the amount of $300.00.  Failure to pay the civil penalty as ordered under
this subsection shall result in automatic suspension of the permit for a period
of 14 days.
   2.   For a second violation within a period of two years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 or the retailer’s permit
shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.  The retailer may select its
preference in the penalty to be applied under this subsection.
   3.   For a third violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.
   4.   For a fourth violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 60 days.
   5.   For a fifth violation within a period of four years, the retailer’s
permit shall be revoked.
The Clerk shall give 10 days’ written notice to the retailer by mailing a copy
of the notice to the place of business as it appears on the application for a
permit.  The notice shall state the reason for the contemplated action and the
time and place at which the retailer may appear and be heard.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2, 453A.22 and 453A.36[6])
121.08   SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED.
Except for the sale of cigarettes through a cigarette vending machine as
provided in Section 453A.36[6] of the Code of Iowa, a retailer shall not sell
or offer for sale tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products, or cigarettes through the use of a self-service display.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.36A)
121.09   PERMIT REVOCATION.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, as provided by the
Code of Iowa, the Council may also revoke a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter for a violation of Division I of Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or
any rule adopted thereunder.  If a permit is revoked, a new permit shall not be
issued to the permit holder for any place of business, or to any other person
for the place of business at which the violation occurred, until one year has
expired from the date of revocation, unless good cause to the contrary is shown
to the Council.  The Clerk shall report the revocation or suspension of a
retail permit to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce
within 30 days of the revocation or suspension.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.22)
CHAPTER 122
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
122.01  Purpose                 122.10  Time Restriction
122.02  Definitions             122.11  Revocation of License
122.03  License Required        122.12  Hearing
122.04  Application for License 122.13  Record and Determination
122.05  License Fees            122.14  Appeal
122.06  Bond Required           122.15  Effect of Revocation
122.07  License Issued          122.16  Rebates
122.08  Display of License      122.17  License Exemptions
122.09  License Not Transferable122.18  Charitable and Nonprofit Organizations
 
122.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to protect residents of the City against fraud,
unfair competition, and intrusion into the privacy of their homes by licensing
and regulating peddlers, solicitors, and transient merchants.
122.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Peddler” means any person carrying goods or merchandise who sells or
offers for sale for immediate delivery such goods or merchandise from house to
house or upon the public street. 
   2.   “Solicitor” means any person who solicits or attempts to solicit from
house to house or upon the public street any contribution or donation or any
order for goods, services, subscriptions or merchandise to be delivered at a
future date.
   3.   “Transient merchant” means any person who engages in a temporary or
itinerant merchandising business and in the course of such business  hires,
leases or occupies any building or structure whatsoever, or who operates out of
a vehicle that is parked anywhere within the City limits.  Temporary
association with a local merchant, dealer, trader or auctioneer, or conduct of
such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any
local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer does not exempt any person from
being considered a transient merchant.
122.03   LICENSE REQUIRED.
Any person engaging in peddling, soliciting or in the business of a transient
merchant in the City without first obtaining a license as herein provided is in
violation of this chapter.
122.04   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
An application in writing shall be filed with the Clerk for a license under
this chapter.  Such application shall set forth the applicant’s name, permanent
and local address, and business address if any.  The application shall also set
forth the applicant’s employer, if any, and the employer’s address, the nature
of the applicant’s business, the last three places of such business and the
length of time sought to be covered by the license.
122.05   LICENSE FEES.
Every application for a license shall be accompanied by a fee of $100.00 per
peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant.
   1.   Solicitors.  In addition to the application fee for each person
actually soliciting (principal or agent), a fee for the principal of $10,000.00
per year.
   2.   Peddlers or Transient Merchants.
      A.   For one day   $   6.00
      B.   For one week   $   700.00
      C.   For up to six months   $   5,000.00
      D.   For one year or major part thereof   $   10,000.00
122.06   BOND REQUIRED.
Before a license under this chapter is issued to a transient merchant, an
applicant shall provide to the Clerk evidence that the applicant has filed a
bond with the Secretary of State in accordance with Chapter 9C of the Code of
Iowa.
122.07   LICENSE ISSUED.
If the Clerk finds the application is completed in conformance with the
requirements of this chapter, the facts stated therein are found to be correct,
and the license fee paid, a license shall be issued immediately.
122.08   DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
Each solicitor or peddler shall keep such license in possession at all times
while doing business in the City and shall, upon the request of prospective
customers, exhibit the license as evidence of compliance with all requirements
of this chapter.  Each transient merchant shall display publicly such
merchant’s license in the merchant’s place of business.
122.09   LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter are not transferable in
any situation and are to be applicable only to the person filing the
application.
122.10   TIME RESTRICTION.
All peddler’s and solicitor’s licenses shall provide that said licenses are in
force and effect only between dawn to dusk.
122.11   REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, the Clerk may
revoke any license issued pursuant to this chapter for the following reasons:
   1.   Fraudulent Statements.  The licensee has made fraudulent statements in
the application for the license or in the conduct of the business.
   2.   Violation of Law.  The licensee has violated this chapter or has
otherwise conducted the business in an unlawful manner.
   3.   Endangered Public Welfare, Health, or Safety.  The licensee has
conducted the business in such manner as to endanger the public welfare,
safety, order, or morals.
The Clerk shall send the written notice to the licensee at the licensee’s local
address.  The notice shall contain particulars of the complaints against the
licensee, the ordinance provisions or State statutes allegedly violated, and
the date, time, and place for hearing on the matter.
122.12   HEARING.
The Clerk shall conduct a hearing at which both the licensee and any
complainants shall be present to determine the truth of the facts alleged in
the complaint and notice.  Should the licensee, or authorized representative,
fail to appear without good cause, the Clerk may proceed to a determination of
the complaint.
122.13   RECORD AND DETERMINATION.
The Clerk shall make and record findings of fact and conclusions of law, and
shall revoke a license only when upon review of the entire record the Clerk
finds clear and convincing evidence of substantial violation of this chapter or
State law.
122.14   APPEAL.
If the Clerk revokes or refuses to issue a license, the Clerk shall make a part
of the record the reasons for such revocation or refusal.  The licensee, or the
applicant, shall have a right to a hearing before the Council at its next
regular meeting.  The Council may reverse, modify, or affirm the decision of
the Clerk by a majority vote of the Council members present and the Clerk shall
carry out the decision of the Council.
122.15   EFFECT OF REVOCATION.
Revocation of any license shall bar the licensee from being eligible for any
license under this chapter for a period of one year from the date of the
revocation.
122.16   REBATES.
Any licensee, except in the case of a revoked license, shall be entitled to a
rebate of part of the fee paid if the license is surrendered before it
expires.  The amount of the rebate shall be determined by dividing the total
license fee by the number of days for which the license was issued and then
multiplying the result by the number of full days not expired.  In all cases,
at least $5.00 of the original fee shall be retained by the City to cover
administrative costs.
122.17   LICENSE EXEMPTIONS.
The following are excluded from the application of this chapter.
   1.   Newspapers.  Persons delivering, collecting for, or selling
subscriptions to newspapers.
   2.   Club Members.  Members of local civic and service clubs, Boy Scout,
Girl Scout, 4-H Clubs, Future Farmers of America, and similar organizations.
   3.   Local Residents and Farmers.  Local residents and farmers who offer for
sale their own products.
   4.   Students.  Students representing the Kingsley-Pierson Community School
District conducting projects sponsored by organizations recognized by the
school.
   5.   Route Sales.  Route delivery persons who only incidentally solicit
additional business or make special sales.
   6.   Resale or Institutional Use.  Persons customarily calling on businesses
or institutions for the purposes of selling products for resale or
institutional use.
122.18   CHARITABLE AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
Authorized representatives of charitable or nonprofit organizations operating
under the provisions of Chapter 504 of the Code of Iowa desiring to solicit
money or to distribute literature are exempt from the operation of Sections
122.04 and 122.05.  All such organizations are required to submit in writing to
the Clerk the name and purpose of the cause for which such activities are
sought, names and addresses of the officers and directors of the organization,
the period during which such activities are to be carried on, and whether any
commissions, fees or wages are to be charged by the solicitor and the amount
thereof.  If the Clerk finds that the organization is a bona fide charity or
nonprofit organization, the Clerk shall issue, free of charge, a license
containing the above information to the applicant.  In the event the Clerk
denies the exemption, the authorized representatives of the organization may
appeal the decision to the Council, as provided in Section
122.14 of this chapter.
CHAPTER 135
STREET USE AND MAINTENANCE
 
135.01  Removal of Warning Devices        135.08  Burning Prohibited
135.02  Obstructing or Defacing           135.09  Excavations 
135.03  Placing Debris On                 135.10  Property Owner’s Responsibility for
                                           Maintenance
135.04  Playing In                        135.11  Failure to Maintain
135.05  Traveling on Barricaded Street or 135.12  Dumping of Snow 
Alley
135.06  Use for Business Purposes         135.13  Driveway Culverts
135.07  Washing Vehicles
 
135.01   REMOVAL OF WARNING DEVICES.
It is unlawful for a person to willfully remove, throw down, destroy or carry
away from any street or alley any lamp, obstruction, guard or other article or
things, or extinguish any lamp or other light, erected or placed thereupon for
the purpose of guarding or enclosing unsafe or dangerous places in said street
or alley without the consent of the person in control thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1) 
135.02   OBSTRUCTING OR DEFACING.
It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, deface or injure any street or alley
in any manner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.03   PLACING DEBRIS ON.
It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street or alley any
glass, glass bottle, nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter,
offal, leaves, grass or any other debris likely to be washed into the storm
sewer and clog the storm sewer, or any substance likely to injure any person,
animal or vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.369)
135.04   PLAYING IN.
It is unlawful for any person to coast, sled, or play games on streets or
alleys, except in the areas blocked off by the City for such purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.05   TRAVELING ON BARRICADED STREET OR ALLEY.
It is unlawful for any person to travel or operate any vehicle on any street or
alley temporarily closed by barricades, lights, signs, or flares placed thereon
by the authority or permission of any City official, police officer or member
of the Fire Department.
135.06   USE FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.
It is unlawful to park, store or place, temporarily or permanently, any
machinery or junk or any other goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind upon
any street or alley for the purpose of storage, exhibition, sale or offering
same for sale, without permission of the Council.
135.07   WASHING VEHICLES.
It is unlawful for any person to use any public sidewalk, street, or alley for
the purpose of washing or cleaning any automobile, truck equipment, or any
vehicle of any kind when such work is done for hire or as a business.  This
does not prevent any person from washing or cleaning his or her own vehicle or
equipment when it is lawfully parked in the street or alley.
135.08   BURNING PROHIBITED.
No person shall burn any trash, leaves, rubbish, or other combustible material
in any curb and gutter or on any paved or surfaced street or alley.
135.09   EXCAVATIONS.
No person shall dig, excavate, or in any manner disturb any street, parking or
alley except in accordance with the following:
   1.   Permit Required.  No excavation shall be commenced without first
obtaining a permit.  A written application for such permit shall be filed with
the City and shall contain the following:
      A.   An exact description of the property, by lot and street number, in
front of or along which it is desired to excavate;
      B.   A statement of the purpose, for whom and by whom the excavation is
to be made;
      C.   The person responsible for the refilling of said excavation and
restoration of the street or alley surface; and
      D.   Date of commencement of the work and estimated completion date.
   2.   Public Convenience.  Streets and alleys shall be opened in the manner
that will cause the least inconvenience to the public and admit the
uninterrupted passage of water along the gutter on the street.
   3.   Barricades, Fencing and Lighting.  Adequate barricades, fencing and
warning lights meeting standards specified by the City shall be so placed as to
protect the public from hazard.  Any costs incurred by the City in providing or
maintaining adequate barricades, fencing or warning lights shall be paid to the
City by the permit holder/property owner.
   4.   Restoration of Public Property.  Streets, sidewalks, alleys and other
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored to the
condition of the property prior to the commencement of the work, or in a manner
satisfactory to the City, at the expense of the permit holder/property owner.
   5.   Inspection.  All work shall be subject to inspection by the City. 
Backfill shall not be deemed completed, and no resurfacing of any improved
street or alley surface shall begin, until such backfill is inspected and
approved by the City.  The permit holder/property owner shall provide the City
with notice at least 24 hours prior to the time when inspection of backfill is
desired. 
   6.   Completion by the City.  Should any excavation in any street or alley
be discontinued or left open and unfinished for a period of 24 hours after the
approved completion date, or in the event the work is improperly done, the City
has the right to finish or correct the excavation work and charge any expenses
for such work to the permit holder/property owner.
   7.   Responsibility for Costs.  All costs and expenses incident to the
excavation shall be borne by the permit holder and/or property owner.  The
permit holder and owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by such excavation.
   8.   Notification.  At least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the
excavation, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, the person
performing the excavation shall contact the Statewide Notification Center and
provide the center with the information required under Section 480.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
   9.   Permit Issued.  Upon approval of the application, a permit shall be
issued.  A separate permit shall be required for each excavation.
135.10   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall maintain all property outside the lot and
property lines and inside the curb lines upon public streets and shall keep
such area in a safe condition, free from nuisances, obstructions, and hazards. 
In the absence of a curb, such property shall extend from the property line to
that portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes. The
abutting property owner shall not be required to remove diseased trees or dead
wood on the publicly owned property or right-of-way. Maintenance includes, but
is not limited to, timely mowing, trimming trees and shrubs, and picking up
litter and debris.  The abutting property owner may be liable for damages
caused by failure to maintain the publicly owned property or right-of-way. 8
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
 
Notes
  †EDITOR’S NOTE:  See also Section
8 136.04 relating to property owner’s responsibility for maintenance of
  sidewalks.
135.11   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
If the abutting property owner does not perform an action required under the
above section within a reasonable time, the City may perform the required
action and assess the cost against the abutting property for collection in the
same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2e]) 
135.12   DUMPING OF SNOW.
It is unlawful for any person to throw, push, or place or cause to be thrown,
pushed or placed, any ice or snow from private property, sidewalks, or
driveways onto the traveled way of a street or alley so as to obstruct gutters,
or impede the passage of vehicles upon the street or alley or to create a
hazardous condition therein; except where, in the cleaning of large commercial
drives in the business district it is absolutely necessary to move the snow
onto the street or alley temporarily, such accumulation shall be removed
promptly by the property owner or agent.  Arrangements for the prompt removal
of such accumulations shall be made prior to moving the snow.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.13   DRIVEWAY CULVERTS.
The property owner shall, at the owner’s expense, install any culvert deemed
necessary under any driveway or any other access to the owner’s property, and
before installing a culvert, permission must first be obtained from the City. 
In the event repairs are needed at any time with respect to culverts, it shall
be the responsibility of the property owner to make such repairs, and, in the
event the owner fails to do so, the City shall have the right to make the
repairs.  If the property owner fails to reimburse the City for the cost of
said repairs, the cost shall be certified to the County Treasurer and specially
assessed against the property as by law provided.
CHAPTER 136
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
136.01  Purpose                               136.10  Failure to Repair or
                                               Barricade
136.02  Definitions                           136.11  Interference with Sidewalk
                                               Improvements
136.03  Removal of Snow, Ice, and             136.12  Encroaching Steps
Accumulations
136.04  Property Owner’s Responsibility for 136.13  Openings and Enclosures
Maintenance
136.05  City May Order Repairs                136.14  Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
136.06  Sidewalk Construction Ordered         136.15  Defacing
136.07  Permit Required                       136.16  Debris on Sidewalks
136.08  Sidewalk Standards                    136.17  Merchandise Display
136.09  Barricades and Warning Lights         136.18  Sales Stands
 
136.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to enhance safe passage by citizens on
sidewalks, to place the responsibility for the maintenance, repair,
replacement, or reconstruction of sidewalks upon the abutting property owner
and to minimize the liability of the City.
136.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Broom finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by sweeping the
sidewalk when it is hardening. 
   2.    “Established grade” means that grade established by the City for the
particular area in which a sidewalk is to be constructed.   
   3.   “One-course construction” means that the full thickness of the concrete
is placed at one time, using the same mixture throughout.
   4.   “Owner” means the person owning the fee title to property abutting any
sidewalk and includes any contract purchaser for purposes of notification
required herein.  For all other purposes, “owner” includes the lessee, if any. 
   5.   “Portland cement” means any type of cement except bituminous cement. 
   6.   “Sidewalk” means all permanent public walks in business, residential or
suburban areas.
   7.   “Sidewalk improvements” means the construction, reconstruction, repair,
replacement, or removal, of a public sidewalk and/or the excavating, filling or
depositing of material in the public right-of-way in connection therewith. 
   8.   “Wood float finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by smoothing
the surface of the sidewalk with a wooden trowel.
136.03   REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, AND ACCUMULATIONS.
The abutting property owner shall remove snow, ice, and accumulations promptly
from sidewalks.  If a property owner does not remove snow, ice, or
accumulations within 24 hours, the City may do so and assess the costs against
the property owner for collection in the same manner as a property tax.  The
abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused by failure to remove
snow, ice, and accumulations promptly from the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2b & e])
136.04   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall maintain in a safe and hazard-free condition
any sidewalk outside the lot and property lines and inside the curb lines or,
in the absence of a curb, any sidewalk between the property line and that
portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes.  The
abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused by failure to maintain
the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
136.05   CITY MAY ORDER REPAIRS.
If the abutting property owner does not maintain sidewalks as required, the
Council may serve notice on such owner, by certified mail, requiring the owner
to repair, replace or reconstruct sidewalks within a reasonable time and if
such action is not completed within the time stated in the notice, the Council
may require the work to be done and assess the costs against the abutting
property for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2d & e])
136.06   SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION ORDERED.
The Council may order the construction of permanent sidewalks upon any street
or court in the City and may specially assess the cost of such improvement to
abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 384 of
the Code of Iowa. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.38)
136.07   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall remove, reconstruct, or install a sidewalk unless such person
has obtained a permit from the City and has agreed in writing that said
removal, reconstruction, or installation will comply with all ordinances and
requirements of the City for such work.  A written application for such permit
shall be filed with the City.
136.08   SIDEWALK STANDARDS.
Sidewalks repaired, replaced, or constructed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be of the following construction and meet the following
standards:
   1.   Cement.  Portland cement shall be the only cement used in the
construction and repair of sidewalks.  At a minimum the cement used in the
construction of sidewalks shall be 4,000 psi or better constructed using either
a fiber mesh or No. 4 rebar, or both.  If using No. 4 rebar it shall be tied in
a minimum of an 18 inch grid.
   2.   Construction.  Sidewalks shall be of one-course construction. 
   3.   Sidewalk Base.  Concrete shall be placed on a three-inch sub-base of
compact, clean, coarse gravel (Class A), crushed concrete, or sand.  The
original subgrade may be used if determined to be suitable by the City. 
   4.   Sidewalk Bed.  The sidewalk bed shall be so graded that the constructed
sidewalk will be at established grade.
   5.   Length, Width and Depth.  Length, width and depth requirements are as
follows:
      A.   Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide and five
inches thick, and each section shall be no more than four feet in length.
      B.   Business District sidewalks shall extend from the property line to
the curb.  Each section shall be five inches thick and no more than six feet in
length.
      C.   Driveway areas shall be not less than six inches in thickness.
   6.   Location.  Residential sidewalks shall be located with the inner edge
(edge nearest the abutting private property) on the property line, unless the
Council establishes a different distance due to special circumstances.
   7.   Grade.  Curb tops shall be on level with the centerline of the street,
which is the established grade.
   8.   Elevations.  The street edge of a sidewalk shall be at an elevation
even with the curb at the curb or not less than one-half inch above the curb
for each foot between the curb and the sidewalk.  All proposed elevations shall
be approved by the City.
   9.   Slope.  All sidewalks shall slope one-fourth inch per foot toward the
curb.
   10.   Finish.  All sidewalks shall be finished with a broom finish or wood
float finish. 
   11.   Curb Ramps and Sloped Areas for Persons with Disabilities.  If a
street, road, or highway is newly built or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped
area shall be constructed or installed at each intersection of the street,
road, or highway with a sidewalk or path.  If a sidewalk or path is newly built
or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped area shall be constructed or installed
at each intersection of the sidewalk or path with a street, highway, or road. 
Curb ramps and sloped areas that are required pursuant to this subsection shall
be constructed or installed in compliance with applicable federal requirements
adopted in accordance with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act,
including (but not limited to) the guidelines issued by the Federal
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 216C.9)
136.09   BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
Whenever any material of any kind is deposited on any street, avenue, highway,
passageway or alley when sidewalk improvements are being made or when any
sidewalk is in a dangerous condition, it shall be the duty of all persons
having an interest therein, either as the contractor or the owner, agent, or
lessee of the property in front of or along which such material may be
deposited, or such dangerous condition exists, to put in conspicuous places at
each end of such sidewalk and at each end of any pile of material deposited in
the street, a sufficient number of approved warning lights or flares, and to
keep them lighted during the entire night and to erect sufficient barricades
both at night and in the daytime to secure the same.  The party or parties
using the street for any of the purposes specified in this chapter shall be
liable for all injuries or damage to persons or property arising from any
wrongful act or negligence of the party or parties, or their agents or
employees or for any misuse of the privileges conferred by this chapter or of
any failure to comply with provisions hereof.
136.10   FAILURE TO REPAIR OR BARRICADE.
It is the duty of the owner of the property abutting the sidewalk, or the
owner’s contractor or agent, to notify the City immediately in the event of
failure or inability to make necessary sidewalk improvements or to install or
erect necessary barricades as required by this chapter.
136.11   INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
No person shall knowingly or willfully drive any vehicle upon any portion of
any sidewalk or approach thereto while in the process of being improved or upon
any portion of any completed sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove or
destroy any part or all of any sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove,
destroy, mar or deface any sidewalk at any time or destroy, mar, remove or
deface any notice provided by this chapter.
136.12   ENCROACHING STEPS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any stairs or steps to any
building upon any part of any sidewalk without permission by resolution of the
Council.
136.13   OPENINGS AND ENCLOSURES.
It is unlawful for a person to:
   1.   Stairs and Railings.  Construct or build a stairway or passageway to
any cellar or basement by occupying any part of the sidewalk, or to enclose any
portion of a sidewalk with a railing without permission by resolution of the
Council. 
   2.   Openings.  Keep open any cellar door, grating, or cover to any vault on
any sidewalk except while in actual use with adequate guards to protect the
public. 
   3.   Protect Openings.  Neglect to properly protect or barricade all
openings on or within six feet of any sidewalk.
136.14   FIRES OR FUEL ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to make a fire of any kind on any sidewalk or to
place or allow any fuel to remain upon any sidewalk.
136.15   DEFACING.
It is unlawful for a person to scatter or place any paste, paint, or writing on
any sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)   
136.16   DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to throw or deposit on any sidewalk any glass,
nails, glass bottle, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, offal,
or any other debris, or any substance likely to injure any person, animal, or
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2]) 
136.17   MERCHANDISE DISPLAY.
It is unlawful for a person to place upon or above any sidewalk, any goods or
merchandise for sale or for display in such a manner as to interfere with the
free and uninterrupted passage of pedestrians on the sidewalk; in no case shall
more than three feet of the sidewalk next to the building be occupied for such
purposes.
136.18   SALES STANDS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or keep any vending machine or stand for
the sale of fruit, vegetables or other substances or commodities on any
sidewalk without first obtaining a written permit from the Council.
CHAPTER 137
VACATION AND DISPOSAL OF STREETS
 
137.01  Power to Vacate               137.04  Findings Required
137.02  Planning and Zoning Commission137.05  Disposal of Vacated Streets or
                                       Alleys
137.03  Notice of Vacation Hearing    137.06  Disposal by Gift Limited
 
137.01   POWER TO VACATE.
When, in the judgment of the Council, it would be in the best interest of the
City to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds, the
Council may do so by ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2a])
137.02   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
Any proposal to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds
shall be referred by the Council to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its
study and recommendation prior to further consideration by the Council.  The
Commission shall submit a written report including recommendations to the
Council within 30 days after the date the proposed vacation is referred to the
Commission. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
137.03   NOTICE OF VACATION HEARING.
The Council shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing of the time
at which the proposal to vacate shall be considered.
137.04   FINDINGS REQUIRED.
No street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds shall be vacated
unless the Council finds that:
   1.   Public Use.  The street, alley, portion thereof, or any public ground
proposed to be vacated is not needed for the use of the public, and therefore,
its maintenance at public expense is no longer justified. 
   2.   Abutting Property.  The proposed vacation will not deny owners of
property abutting on the street or alley reasonable access to their property.
137.05   DISPOSAL OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS.
When in the judgment of the Council it would be in the best interest of the
City to dispose of a vacated street or alley, portion thereof or public ground,
the Council may do so in accordance with the provisions of Section 364.7, Code
of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7)
137.06   DISPOSAL BY GIFT LIMITED.
The City may not dispose of real property by gift except to a governmental body
for a public purpose or to a fair.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 174.15[2] & 364.7[3])
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
 
CHAPTER 138
NAMING OF STREETS
 
138.01  Naming New Streets     138.04  Official Street Name Map
138.02  Changing Name of Street138.05  Revision of Street Name Map
138.03  Recording Street Names
 
138.01   NAMING NEW STREETS.
New streets shall be assigned names in accordance with the following:
   1.   Extension of Existing Street.  Streets added to the City that are
natural extensions of existing streets shall be assigned the name of the
existing street.
   2.   Resolution.  All street names, except streets named as a part of a
subdivision or platting procedure, shall be named by resolution.
   3.   Planning and Zoning Commission.  Proposed street names shall be
referred to the Planning and Zoning Commission for review and recommendation.
138.02   CHANGING NAME OF STREET.
The Council may, by resolution, change the name of a street.
138.03   RECORDING STREET NAMES.
Following official action naming or changing the name of a street, the Clerk
shall file a copy thereof with the County Recorder, County Auditor and County
Assessor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.26)
138.04   OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP.
Streets within the City are named as shown on the Official Street Name Map,
which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
chapter.  The Official Street Name Map shall be identified by the signature of
the Mayor, and bearing the seal of the City under the following words:  “This
is to certify that this is the Official Street Name Map referred to in Section
138.04 of the Code of Ordinances of Kingsley, Iowa.”
138.05   REVISION OF STREET NAME MAP.
If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in
street names, such changes shall be entered on the Official Street Name Map
promptly after the change has been approved by the Council with an entry on the
Official Street Name Map as follows:  “On (date), by official action of the
City Council, the following changes were made in the Official Street Name Map: 
(brief description),” which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by
the Clerk.
CHAPTER 145
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
 
145.01  Enforcement Officer         145.05  Conduct of Hearing
145.02  General Definition of Unsafe145.06  Posting of Signs
145.03  Unsafe Building             145.07  Right to Demolish; Municipal
                                     Infraction
145.04  Notice to Owner             145.08  Costs
 
145.01   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
The Council is responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
145.02   GENERAL DEFINITION OF UNSAFE.
All buildings or structures that are structurally unsafe or not provided with
adequate egress, or that constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous
to human life, or that in relation to existing use constitute a hazard to
safety or health, or public welfare, by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, obsolescence, or abandonment, are, for the purpose of this
chapter, unsafe buildings.  All such unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be
public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or
removal in accordance with the procedure specified in this chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657A.1 & 364.12[3a]) 
145.03   UNSAFE BUILDING.
“Unsafe building” means any structure or mobile home meeting any or all of the
following criteria:
   1.   Various Inadequacies.  Whenever the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, because of: (i) dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; (ii)
faulty construction; (iii) the removal, movement, or instability of any portion
of the ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building; (iv) the
deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or (v) any other cause,
is likely to partially or completely collapse.
   2.   Manifestly Unsafe.  Whenever, for any reason, the building or
structure, or any portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for
which it is being used.
   3.   Inadequate Maintenance.  Whenever a building or structure, used or
intended to be used for dwelling purposes, because of dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction, or otherwise, is determined by any health officer
to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such condition that it is
likely to cause sickness or disease.
   4.   Fire Hazard.  Whenever any building or structure, because of
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, or other cause, is determined by
the Fire Marshal or Fire Chief to be a fire hazard.
   5.   Abandoned.  Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on
a site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
145.04   NOTICE TO OWNER.
The Council shall examine or cause to be examined every building or structure
or portion thereof reported as dangerous or damaged and, if such is found to be
an unsafe building as defined in this chapter, the Council shall give to the
owner of such building or structure written notice stating the defects
thereof.  This notice may require the owner or person in charge of the building
or premises, within 48 hours or such reasonable time as the circumstances
require, to commence either the required repairs or improvements or demolition
and removal of the building or structure or portions thereof, and all such work
shall be completed within 90 days from date of notice, unless otherwise
stipulated by the Council.  If necessary, such notice shall also require the
building, structure, or portion thereof to be vacated forthwith and not
reoccupied until the required repairs and improvements are completed,
inspected, and approved by the Council. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h]) 
   1.   Notice Served.  Such notice shall be served by sending by certified
mail to the owner of record, according to Section 364.12[3h] of the Code of
Iowa, if the owner is found within the City limits.  If the owner is not found
within the City limits, such service may be made upon the owner by registered
mail or certified mail.  The designated period within which said owner or
person in charge is required to comply with the order of the Council shall
begin as of the date the owner receives such notice.
   2.   Hearing.  Such notice shall also advise the owner that he or she may
request a hearing before the Council on the notice by filing a written request
for hearing within the time provided in the notice.
145.05   CONDUCT OF HEARING.
If requested, the Council shall conduct a hearing in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Notice.  The owner shall be served with written notice specifying the
date, time and place of hearing.
   2.   Owner’s Rights.  At the hearing, the owner may appear and show cause
why the alleged nuisance shall not be abated.
   3.   Determination.  The Council shall make and record findings of fact and
may issue such order as it deems appropriate. 9
 
Notes
  †EDITOR’S NOTE:  Suggested forms of notice and of a resolution and order of the
  Council for the administration of this chapter are provided in the APPENDIX to
9 this Code of Ordinances.  Caution is urged in the use of this procedure.  We
  recommend you review the situation with your attorney before initiating
  procedures and follow his or her recommendation carefully.
145.06   POSTING OF SIGNS.
The Council shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such building a notice
to read:  “DO NOT ENTER.
   UNSAFE TO OCCUPY.
   CITY OF KINGSLEY, IOWA.”  Such notice shall remain posted until the required
demolition, removal or repairs are completed.  Such notice shall not be removed
without written permission of the enforcement officer and no person shall enter
the building except for the purpose of making the required repairs or of
demolishing the building.
145.07   RIGHT TO DEMOLISH; MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
In case the owner fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with the notice to
repair, rehabilitate, or to demolish and remove the building or structure or
portion thereof, the Council may order the owner of the building prosecuted as
a violator of the provisions of this chapter and may proceed with the work
specified in such notice.  As an alternative to this action, the City may
utilize the municipal infraction process to abate the nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
145.08   COSTS.
Costs incurred under Section
145.07 shall be paid out of the City treasury.  Such costs shall be charged to
the owner of the premises involved and levied as a special assessment against
the land on which the building or structure is located, and shall be certified
to the County Treasurer for collection in the manner provided for other taxes. 
In addition, the City may take any other action deemed appropriate to recover
costs incurred. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h]) 
CHAPTER 146
MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES
 
146.01  Definitions                146.03  Foundation Requirements
146.02  Conversion to Real Property
 
146.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.1)
   1.   “Manufactured home” means a factory-built structure built under the
authority of 42 U.S.C. Sec. 5403 which was constructed on or after June 15,
1976, and is required by federal law to display a seal from the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   2.   “Manufactured home community” means any site, lot, field, or tract of
land under common ownership upon which ten or more occupied manufactured homes
are harbored, either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and includes any
building, structure or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the
equipment of the manufactured home community.
   3.   “Mobile home” means any vehicle without motive power used or so
manufactured or constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon
the public streets and highways and so designed, constructed or reconstructed
as will permit the vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or
more persons; but also includes any such vehicle with motive power not
registered as a motor vehicle in Iowa.  A mobile home means any such vehicle
built before June 15, 1976, which was not built to a mandatory building code
and which contains no State or federal seals.
   4.   “Mobile home park” means any site, lot, field or tract of land upon
which three or more mobile homes or manufactured homes, or a combination of any
of these homes, are placed on developed spaces and operated as a for-profit
enterprise with water, sewer or septic, and electrical services available. 
The term “manufactured home community” or “mobile home park” is not to be
construed to include manufactured or mobile homes, buildings, tents, or other
structures temporarily maintained by any individual, educational institution,
or company on its own premises and used exclusively to house said entity’s own
labor or students.  The manufactured home community or mobile home park shall
meet the requirements of any zoning regulations that are in effect.
146.02   CONVERSION TO REAL PROPERTY.
A mobile home or manufactured home that is located outside a manufactured home
community or mobile home park shall be converted to real estate by being placed
on a permanent foundation and shall be assessed for real estate taxes except in
the following cases:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.26 & Sec. 435.35)
   1.   Retailer’s Stock.  Mobile homes or manufactured homes on private
property as part of a retailer’s or a manufacturer’s stock not used as a place
for human habitation.
   2.   Existing Homes.  A taxable mobile home or manufactured home that is
located outside of a manufactured home community or mobile home park as of
January 1, 1995, shall be assessed and taxed as real estate, but is exempt from
the permanent foundation requirement of this chapter until the home is
relocated.
146.03   FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS.
A mobile home or manufactured home located outside of a manufactured home
community or mobile home park shall be placed on a permanent frost-free
foundation system that meets the support and anchorage requirements as
recommended by the manufacturer or required by the State Building Code.  The
foundation system must be visually compatible with permanent foundation systems
of surrounding residential structures.  Any such home shall be installed in
accordance with the requirements of the State Building Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.10 & 414.28)
CHAPTER 147
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
 
147.01  Purpose                                 147.03  Amendments to the Property Maintenance
                                                 Code
147.02  International Property Maintenance Code 147.04  Code On File
Adopted
 
147.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and govern the conditions and
maintenance of all property, buildings, and structures; to provide the
standards for facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to
ensure that structures are safe, sanitary, and fit for occupation and use, and
the demolition of such existing structures.
147.02   INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED.
Except as hereinafter added to, deleted, modified or amended, there is hereby
adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the City of Kingsley that certain
code known as the International Property Maintenance Code, 2015 Edition,
Chapters 1 through 3, as prepared and edited by the International Code Council.
Inc" and the provisions of said Property Maintenance Code shall be controlling
in maintaining minimum requirements and standards of structures and properties
within the corporate limits of the City.
147.03   AMENDMENTS TO THE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
Certain sections and portions of sections of the International Property
Maintenance Code, 2015 Edition, are hereby amended, deleted, modified or added
to as more specifically set forth below and in the following sections of this
chapter.
   1.   Section 101.1 – “[Name of Jurisdiction] shall be replaced with “the
City of Kingsley, Iowa.”
   2.   Section 102.3 – Shall be replaced with “repairs, additions, or
alterations to a structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in
accordance with the procedures and provisions of applicable codes that have
been adopted by the City of Kingsley, Iowa and applicable codes under federal
and state law.”
   3.   Section 103.1 – “Department of property maintenance inspection” shall
be replaced with “Building Inspector/Code Enforcement Officer.”
   4.   Section 103.5 – “as indicated in the following schedule” shall be
replace with “as adopted by resolution.”
   5.   Section 107.1 – Add the following reference:  “For violations which
constitute a nuisance defined by
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances, notices and procedures shall comply with
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.”
   6.   Section 108.1 – Add the following reference:  “Alternatively, unsafe
buildings may be addressed according to
Chapter 145 of this Code of Ordinances.”
   7.   Section 112.4 – “liable to a fine of not less than [Amount] dollars or
more than [amount] dollars” shall be replaced with “subject to enforcement
procedures applicable to municipal infractions as set forth in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.”
   8.   Section 302.4 – “10” shall be replaced with “12.”  Add the following
reference: “Property owners shall also comply with
Chapter 52 of this Code of Ordinances.”
   9.   Section 302.8 is amended to add the following: “Property owners shall
also comply with
Chapter 51 of this Code of Ordinances.”
   10.   Section 304.3 is amended by deleting said subsection and inserting in
lieu thereof the following: “Building numbering shall be regulated by
Chapter 150 of this Code of Ordinances.
   11.   Sections 308.1, 308.2, and 308.3 – Add the following references:
“Property owners shall also comply with
Chapters 105 and
106 of this Code of Ordinances.”
   12.   The title “Code Official” as used throughout the International
Property Maintenance Code, 2015 Edition published by the International Code
Council (ICC), Chapter 1-3, as modified, shall refer to the “Building
Inspector/Code Enforcement Officer” of the City of Kingsley, Iowa, and such
title shall be considered synonymous and may be used interchangeably.
147.04   CODE ON FILE.
An official copy of the Kingsley Property Maintenance Code hereby adopted,
including a certificate by the Clerk as to its adoption and the effective date
thereof, shall be on file in the Office of the Clerk in City Hall and shall be
kept there on file, and copies shall be available for public inspection.
CHAPTER 150
BUILDING NUMBERING
 
150.01  Definitions       150.03  Building Numbering Plan
150.02  Owner Requirements
 
150.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Owner” means the owner of the principal building. 
   2.   “Principal building” means the main building on any lot or subdivision
thereof.
150.02   OWNER REQUIREMENTS.
Every owner shall comply with the following numbering requirements:
   1.   Obtain Building Number.  The owner shall obtain the assigned number to
the principal building from the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
   2.   Display Building Number.  The owner shall place or cause to be
installed and maintained on the principal building the assigned number in a
conspicuous place to the street in figures not less than two and one-half 
inches in height and of a contrasting color with their background.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
   3.   Failure to Comply.  If an owner refuses to number a building as herein
provided, or fails to do so for a period of 30 days after being notified in
writing by the City to do so, the City may proceed to place the assigned number
on the principal building and assess the costs against the property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
150.03   BUILDING NUMBERING PLAN.
Building numbers shall be assigned in accordance with the building numbering
plan on file in the office of the Clerk.
CHAPTER 151
TREES
 
151.01  Definition           151.04  Trimming Trees to Be Supervised
151.02  Planting Restrictions151.05  Disease Control
151.03  Duty to Trim Trees   151.06  Inspection and Removal
 
151.01   DEFINITION.
For use in this chapter, “parking” means that part of the street, avenue, or
highway in the City not covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and
the curb line or, on unpaved streets, that part of the street, avenue, or
highway lying between the lot line and that portion of the street usually
traveled by vehicular traffic. 
151.02   PLANTING RESTRICTIONS.
No new tree shall be planted in any parking or street except in accordance with
the following:
   1.   Alignment.  All trees planted in any street shall be planted in the
parking midway between the outer line of the sidewalk and the curb.  In the
event a curb line is not established, trees shall be planted on a line 10 feet
from the property line. 
   2.   Spacing.  Trees shall not be planted on any parking that is less than
nine feet in width, or contains less than 81 square feet of exposed soil
surface per tree.  Trees shall not be planted closer than 20 feet from street
intersections (property lines extended) and 10 feet from driveways.  If it is
at all possible, trees should be planted inside the property lines and not
between the sidewalk and the curb.
   3.   Prohibited Trees.  No person shall plant in any street any fruit-
bearing tree or any tree of the kinds commonly known as cottonwood, poplar, box
elder, Chinese elm, evergreen, willow, or black walnut.
151.03   DUTY TO TRIM TREES.
The owner or agent of the abutting property shall keep the trees on, or
overhanging the street, trimmed so that all branches will be at least 15 feet
above the surface of the street and eight feet above the sidewalks.  If the
abutting property owner fails to trim the trees, the City may serve notice on
the abutting property owner requiring that such action be taken within five
days.  If such action is not taken within that time, the City may perform the
required action and assess the costs against the abutting property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c, d & e])
151.04   TRIMMING TREES TO BE SUPERVISED.
Except as allowed in Section
151.03, it is unlawful for any person to trim or cut any tree in a street or
public place unless the work is done under the supervision of the City.
151.05   DISEASE CONTROL.
Any dead, diseased, or damaged tree or shrub that may harbor serious insect or
disease pests or disease injurious to other trees is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
151.06   INSPECTION AND REMOVAL.
The Council shall inspect or cause to be inspected any trees or shrubs in the
City reported or suspected to be dead, diseased or damaged, and such trees and
shrubs shall be subject to the following:
   1.   City Property.  If it is determined that any such condition exists on
any public property, including the strip between the curb and the lot line of
private property, the Council may cause such condition to be corrected by
treatment or removal.  The Council may also order the removal of any trees on
the streets of the City which interfere with the making of improvements or with
travel thereon.
   2.   Private Property.  If it is determined with reasonable certainty that
any such condition exists on private property and that danger to other trees or
to adjoining property or passing motorists or pedestrians is imminent, the
Council shall notify by certified mail the owner, occupant or person in charge
of such property to correct such condition by treatment or removal within 14
days of said notification.  If such owner, occupant, or person in charge of
said property fails to comply within 14 days of receipt of notice, the Council
may cause the condition to be corrected and the cost assessed against the
property. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3b & h])
CHAPTER 160
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
 
160.01  Definitions                               160.06  Establishment of Variance
                                                   Procedures
160.02  Statutory Authority, Findings of Fact and 160.07  Nonconforming Uses
Purpose
160.03  General Provisions                        160.08  Penalties for Violation
160.04  Administration                            160.09  Amendments
160.05  Standards for Floodplain (Overlay)
District
 
160.01   DEFINITIONS.
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   1.   “Appurtenant structure” means a structure which is on the same parcel
of the property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which
is incidental to the use of the principal structure.
   2.   “Base flood” means the flood having one percent chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year (also commonly referred to as the “100-year
flood”).
   3.   “Base flood elevation” (BFE) means the elevation floodwaters would
reach at a particular site during the occurrence of a base flood event.
   4.   “Basement” means any enclosed area of a building which has its floor or
lowest level below ground level (subgrade) on all sides.  Also see “lowest
floor.”
   5.   “Development” means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations or storage
of equipment or materials. “Development” does not include minor projects or
routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities, as defined in this
section.  It also does not include gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling or grading.
   6.   “Enclosed area below lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest
enclosed area in a building when all the following criteria are met:
      A.   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic
pressure during flood events with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions
of
160.06(4)(A) of this chapter; and
      B.   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, drywalled, etc.) and
used solely for low damage potential uses such as building access, parking, or
storage; and
      C.   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater, furnace,
electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at least one
foot above the base flood elevation; and
      D.   The enclosed area is not a basement, as defined in this section.
   7.   “Existing construction” means any structure for which the start of
construction commenced before the effective date of the first floodplain
management regulations adopted by the community.
   8.   “Existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the
community.
   9.   “Expansion of existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means
the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed
(including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   10.   “Factory-built home” means any structure, designed for residential use
which is wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed or assembled
in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation, on a
building site.  For the purpose of this chapter factory-built homes include
mobile homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes; and also includes
recreational vehicles which are placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days and not fully licensed for and ready for highway use.
   11.   “Factory-built home park or subdivision” means a parcel or contiguous
parcels of land divided into two or more factory-built home lots for sale or
lease.
   12.   “500-year flood” means a flood, the magnitude of which has a two-
tenths percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year or which,
on average, will be equaled or exceeded at least once every 500 years.
   13.   “Flood” means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or
rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
   14.   “Flood insurance rate map” (FIRM) means the official map prepared as
part of (but published separately from) the Flood Insurance Study which
delineates both the flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community.
   15.   “Flood insurance study” (FIS) means a report published by FEMA for a
community issued along with the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map(s).  The
study contains such background data as the base flood discharge and water
surface elevations that were used to prepare the FIRM.
   16.   “Floodplain” means any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water as a result of a flood.
   17.   “Floodplain management” means an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use of
floodplains, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans, flood
control works, floodproofing, and floodplain management regulations.
   18.   “Flood proofing” means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, including utility and
sanitary facilities, which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to such
structures.
   19.   “Floodway” means the channel of a river or stream and those portions
of the floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to
carry and discharge flood waters or flood flows so that confinement of flood
flows to the floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot.
   20.   “Floodway fringe” means those portions of the special flood hazard
area outside the floodway.
   21.   “Highest adjacent grade” means the highest natural elevation of the
ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   22.   “Historic structure” means any structure that is:
      A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places,
maintained by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily determined by the
Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing of
the National Register;
      B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:  (i) by an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or (ii) directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   23.   “Lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest enclosed area in a
building including a basement except when the criteria listed in the definition
of “enclosed area below lowest floor” are met.
   24.   “Maximum damage potential uses” means hospitals and like institutions;
buildings or building complexes containing documents, data, or instruments of
great public value; buildings or building complexes containing materials
dangerous to the public or fuel storage facilities; power installations needed
in emergency or other buildings or building complexes similar in nature or use.
   25.   “Minor projects” means small development activities (except for
filling, grading, and excavating) valued at less than $500.00.
   26.   “New construction” (new buildings, factory-built home parks) means
those structures or development for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the first floodplain management regulations
adopted by the community.
   27.   “New factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after
the effective date of the effective date of the first floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   28.   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle which is:
      A.   Built on a single chassis;
      B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
      D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   29.   “Routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities” means
repairs necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that do
not trigger a building permit, provided they are not associated with a general
improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure.  Such repairs
include: 
      A.   Normal maintenance of structures such as re-roofing, replacing
roofing tiles and replacing siding;
      B.   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting,
cabinets, counter tops and similar finish work;
      C.   Basement sealing;
      D.   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes;
      E.   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating or air
conditioning systems and repairing wells or septic systems.
   30.   “Special flood hazard area” (SFHA) means the land within a community
subject to the base flood.  This land is identified on the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map as Zone A, A1-30, AE, AH, AO, AR, and/or A99.
   31.   “Start of construction” includes substantial improvement, and means
the date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date.  The actual start
means either the first placement or permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as pouring of a slab or footings, the installation of pile, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a factory-built home on a foundation.  Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure.  For a substantial improvement, the actual
start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor,
or other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the building. 
   32.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected on the ground or
attached to the ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, factories,
sheds, cabins, factory-built homes, storage tanks, grain storage facilities,
and/or other similar uses.
   33.   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a
structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage
condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred.  Volunteer labor and donated materials shall be
included in the estimated cost of repair.
   34.   “Substantial improvement” means any improvement to a structure which
satisfies either of the following criteria:
      A.   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure
either:  (i) before the start of construction of the improvement; or (ii) if
the structure has been substantially damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred.
      B.   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a building
by 25 percent or more.  All additions constructed after the effective date of
the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the community shall be
added to any proposed addition in determining whether the total increase in
original floor space would exceed 25 percent.
   35.   “Variance” means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of
the floodplain management regulations.
   36.   “Violation” means the failure of a structure or other development to
be fully compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
160.02   STATUTORY AUTHORITY, FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSE.
   1.   The Legislature of the State of Iowa has, in Chapter 414 of the Code of
Iowa, as amended, delegated the power to cities to enact zoning regulations to
secure safety from flood and to promote health and the general welfare. 
   2.   Findings of Fact.
      A.   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic
inundation which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare of
the community.
      B.   These flood losses, hazards, and related adverse effects are caused
by: (i) the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood damages
which create hazardous conditions as a result of being inadequately elevated or
otherwise protected from flooding; and (ii) the cumulative effect of
obstructions on the floodplain causing increases in flood heights and
velocities.
      C.   This chapter relies upon engineering methodology for analyzing flood
hazards which is consistent with the standards established by the Department of
Natural Resources.
   3.   Statement of Purpose.  It is the purpose of this chapter to protect and
preserve the rights, privileges, and property of the City and its residents and
to preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, and comfort and
convenience of its residents by minimizing those flood losses described in
Paragraph 2(A) of this section with provisions designed to:
      A.   Reserve sufficient floodplain area for the conveyance of flood flows
so that flood heights and velocities will not be increased substantially.
      B.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities.
      C.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction or substantial improvement.
      D.   Protect individuals from buying lands which may not be suited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard.
      E.   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance
Program.
160.03   GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   1.   Lands to Which Chapter Applies.  The provisions of this chapter shall
apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the City which are located within
the boundaries of the Floodplain (Overlay) District as established in
Subsection (2) of this section.
   2.   Establishment of Official Floodplain Zoning Map.  The Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM) for the City of Kingsley, Panel 190477A, dated September 27,
1985, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be the Official Floodplain
Zoning Map.  The areas within the jurisdiction of the City of Kingsley having
special flood hazards are hereby designated as a Floodplain (Overlay) District
and shall be subject to the standards of the Floodplain (Overlay) District (as
well as those for the underlying zoning district).
   3.   Rules for Interpretation of Floodplain (Overlay) District.  The
boundaries of the Floodplain (Overlay) District areas shall be determined by
scaling distances on the official Flood Insurance Rate Map.  When an
interpretation is needed as to the exact location of a boundary, the Mayor
shall make the necessary interpretation.  The City Council shall hear and
decide appeals when it is alleged that there is an error in any requirement,
decision, or determination made by the Mayor in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   4.   Compliance.  No structure or land shall hereafter be used and no
structure shall be located, extended, converted, or structurally altered
without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   5.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions.  It is not intended by this
chapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions.  However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions,
the provisions of this chapter shall prevail.  All other ordinances
inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the
inconsistency only.
   6.   Interpretation.  In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall
be liberally construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a
limitation or repeal of any other powers granted by State statutes.
   7.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability.  The standards required by this
chapter are considered reasonable for regulatory purposes.  This chapter does
not imply that areas outside the designated Floodplain (Overlay) District areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages.  This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the City or any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
   8.   Severability.  If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
160.04   ADMINISTRATION.
   1.   Appointment, Duties and Responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator.
      A.   The Mayor is hereby appointed to implement and administer the
provisions of this chapter and will herein be referred to as the Administrator.
      B.   Duties and responsibilities of the Administrator shall include, but
not necessarily be limited to the following:
         (1)   Review all floodplain development permit applications to assure
that the provisions of this chapter will be satisfied.
         (2)   Review floodplain development applications to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from federal, State, and local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Department of
Natural Resources for floodplain construction.
         (3)   Record and maintain a record of:  (i) the elevation (in relation
to National Geodetic Vertical Datum 1929 [reference Flood Insurance Study for
the appropriate datum])of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures or (ii) the elevation to which new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed.
         (4)   Notify adjacent communities/counties and the Department of
Natural Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a
watercourse and submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
         (5)   Keep a record of all permits, appeals and such other
transactions and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this
chapter.
         (6)   Submit to the Federal Insurance Administration an annual report
concerning the community’s participation, utilizing the annual report form
supplied by the Federal Insurance Administration.
         (7)   Notify the Federal Insurance Administration of any annexations
or modifications to the community’s boundaries.
         (8)   Review subdivision proposals to ensure such proposals are
consistent with the purpose of this chapter and advise the City Council of
potential conflict.
         (9)   Maintain the accuracy of the community’s Flood Insurance Rate
Maps when:
            a.   Development placed within the Floodway (Overlay) District
results in either of the following: (i) an increase in the Base Flood
Elevations; or (ii) alteration to the floodway boundary;
            b.   Development placed in Zones A, AE, AH, and A1-30 that does not
include a designated floodway that will cause a rise of more than one foot in
the base elevation; or
            c.   Development relocates or alters the channel.
Within six months of the completion of the development, the applicant shall
submit to FEMA all scientific and technical data necessary for a Letter of Map
Revision.
         (10)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with the
standards of this chapter.
         (11)   Forward all requests for variances to the Board of Adjustment
for consideration.  Ensure all requests include the information ordinarily
submitted with applications as well as any additional information deemed
necessary to the Board of Adjustment.
   2.   Floodplain Development Permit.
      A.   Permit Required.  A Floodplain Development Permit issued by the
Administrator shall be secured prior to any floodplain development (any manmade
change to improved and unimproved real estate, including but not limited to
buildings or other structures, mining, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations), including the placement of factory-built homes.
      B.   Application for Permit.  Application shall be made on forms
furnished by the Administrator and shall include the following:
         (1)   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is to be made.
         (2)   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done
(e.g., lot, block, track, street address or similar description) that will
readily identify and locate the work to be done.
         (3)   Location and dimensions of all buildings and building additions.
         (4)   Indication of the use or occupancy for which the proposed work
is intended.
         (5)   Elevation of the base flood.
         (6)   Elevation (in relation to National Geodetic Vertical Datum 1929
[reference Flood Insurance Study for the appropriate datum])of the lowest floor
(including basement) of buildings or of the level to which a building is to be
floodproofed.
         (7)   For buildings being improved or rebuilt, the estimated cost of
improvements and market value of the building prior to the improvements.
         (8)   Such other information as the Administrator deems reasonably
necessary (e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of this chapter.
      C.   Action on Permit Application.  The Administrator shall, within a
reasonable time, make a determination as to whether the proposed floodplain
development meets the applicable standards of this chapter and shall approve or
disapprove the application.  For disapprovals, the applicant shall be informed,
in writing, of the specific reasons therefor.  The Administrator shall not
issue permits for variances except as directed by the Board of Adjustment.
      D.   Construction and Use to Be as Provided in Application and Plans. 
Floodplain Development Permits based on the basis of approved plans and
applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in
such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement, or
construction.  Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.  The applicant shall be
required to submit certification by a professional engineer or land surveyor,
as appropriate, registered in the State of Iowa, that the finished fill,
building floor elevations, flood proofing, or other flood protection  measures
were accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to
the use or occupancy of any structure.
160.05   STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAIN (OVERLAY) DISTRICT.
All uses must be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and meet the
following applicable performance standards.  Where base flood elevations and
floodway data have not been provided on the Flood Insurance Rate Map, the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources shall be contacted to compute such data.  The
applicant will be responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources
with sufficient technical information to make such determination.
   1.   All Development.  All development within the Floodplain (Overlay)
District shall:
      A.   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
      B.   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      C.   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant
to flood damage.
      D.   Obtain all other necessary permits from federal, State, and local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Iowa Department
of Natural Resources.
   2.   Residential Structures.  All new or substantially improved residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated a minimum
of one foot above the base flood elevations.  Construction shall be upon
compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no lower than one foot above the
base flood elevations and extend at such elevation at least 18 feet beyond the
limits of any structure erected thereon.  Alternate methods of elevating (such
as piers or extended foundations) may be allowed subject to favorable
consideration by the Board of Adjustment, where existing topography, street
grades, or other factors preclude elevating by fill.  In such cases, the
methods used must be adequate to support the structure as well as withstand the
various forces and hazards associated with flooding.  All new residential
structures located in areas that would become isolated due to flooding of
surrounding ground shall be provided with a means of access that will be
passable by wheeled vehicles during the base flood.  However, this criterion
shall not apply where the Administrator determines there is sufficient flood
warning time for the protection of life and property.  When estimating flood
warning time, consideration shall be given to the criteria listed in 567-75.2
(3), Iowa Administrative Code.
   3.   Nonresidential Structures.  All new or substantially improved
nonresidential structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation, or together with
attendant utility and sanitary systems, be flood proofed to such a level.  When
flood proofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in the State of
Iowa shall certify that the flood proofing methods used are adequate to
withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces and
other factors associated with the base flood; and that the structure, below the
base flood elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water.  A record of the certification indicating the specific
elevation (in relation to National Geodetic Vertical Datum 1929 [reference
Flood Insurance Study for the appropriate datum]) to which any structures are
flood proofed shall be maintained by the Administrator.
   4.   All New and Substantially Improved Structures.
      A.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (not including
basements) that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters.  Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         (1)   A minimum of two openings, with positioning on at least two
walls, having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided. 
         (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
         (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
Such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles, building access and
low damage potential storage. 
      B.   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
      C.   New and substantially improved structures must be constructed with
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities elevated or flood proofed to a minimum of one foot
above the base flood elevation.
   5.   Factory-Built Homes:
      A.   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including
those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the structure
is a minimum of one foot above the base flood level.
      B.   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including
those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be
anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement.  Anchorage systems
may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to
ground anchors as required by the State Building Code.
   6.   Utility and Sanitary Systems.
      A.   On-site waste disposal and water supply systems shall be located or
designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the system
during flooding.
      B.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system as well as
the discharge of effluent into flood waters.  Wastewater treatment facilities
(other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a level of flood protection
equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood elevation.
      C.   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.  Water
supply treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with
a level of protection equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood
elevation.
      D.   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.
   7.   Storage of Materials and Equipment.  Storage of equipment and materials
that are flammable, explosive, or injurious to human, animal or plant life is
prohibited unless elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation.  Other material and equipment must either be similarly elevated or:
(i) not subject to major flood damage and be anchored to prevent movement due
to flood waters; or (ii) readily removable from the area within the time
available after flood warning.
   8.   Flood Control Structures.  Flood control structural works such as
levees, flood walls, etc. shall provide, at a minimum, protection from the base
flood with a minimum of three feet of design freeboard and shall provide for
adequate interior drainage.  In addition, structural flood control works shall
be approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
   9.   Watercourse Alterations.  Watercourse alterations or relocations must
be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion.  In addition, such alterations or relocations must be
approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
   10.   Subdivisions.  Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks and
subdivisions) shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage. 
Development associated with subdivision proposals (including the installation
of public utilities) shall meet the applicable performance standards of this
chapter.  Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide all
lots with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during
the base flood.  Proposals for subdivisions greater than five acres or 50 lots
(whichever is less) shall include base flood elevation data for those areas
located within the Floodplain (Overlay) District.
   11.   Accessory Structures to Residential Uses.
      A.   Detached garages, sheds, and similar structures that are incidental
to a residential use are exempt from the base flood elevation requirements
where the following criteria are satisfied. 
         (1)   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential.  Its size shall not exceed 600 square feet in size.  Those portions
of the structure located less than one foot above the BFE must be constructed
of flood-resistant materials.
         (2)   The structure shall be used solely for low flood damage
potential purposes such as vehicle parking and limited storage.  The structure
shall not be used for human habitation.
         (3)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
         (4)   The structure shall be firmly anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (5)   The structure's service facilities such as electrical and
heating equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed to at least one foot above
the base flood elevation.
         (6)   The structure’s walls shall include openings that satisfy the
provisions of Subsection 4(A) of this section.
Exemption from the base flood elevation requirements for such a structure may
result in increased premium rates for flood insurance coverage of the structure
and its contents.
   12.   Recreational Vehicles.
      A.   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the requirements of Subsection
5 of this section regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built homes when
the following criteria are satisfied. 
         (1)   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for less
than 180 consecutive days; and
         (2)   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for
highway use.  A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
      B.   Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more than 180
consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must satisfy requirements of
Subsection 5 of this section regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built
homes.
   13.   Pipeline Crossings.  Pipeline river and stream crossings shall be
buried in the streambed and banks, or otherwise sufficiently protected to
prevent rupture due to channel degradation and meandering.
   14   Maximum Damage Potential Uses.  All new or substantially improved
maximum damage potential uses shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one foot above the elevation of the 500-year flood, or
together with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be floodproofed to such a
level.  When floodproofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in
the State of Iowa shall certify that the floodproofing methods used are
adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and
uplift forces and other factors associated with the base flood; and that the
structure, below the base flood elevation is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water.  A record of the
certification indicating the specific elevation (in relation toNational
Geodetic Vertical Datum 1929 [reference Flood Insurance Study for the
appropriate datum]) to which any structures are floodproofed shall be
maintained by the Administrator.  Where 0.2% chance flood elevation data has
not been provided in the Flood Insurance Study, the Iowa Department of Natural
Resources shall be contacted to compute such data.  The applicant will be
responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources with sufficient
technical information to make such determinations.
160.06   ESTABLISHMENT OF VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   1.   The Board of Adjustment may authorize upon request in specific cases
such variances from the terms of this chapter that will not be contrary to the
public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary hardship.  Variances
granted must meet the following applicable standards.
      A.   Variances shall only be granted upon:  (i) a showing of good and
sufficient cause; (ii) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and (iii) a determination that
the granting of the variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or conflict with
existing local codes or ordinances.
      B.   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      C.   In cases where the variance involves a lower level of flood
protection for buildings than what is ordinarily required by this chapter, the
applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature of the Administrator
that:  (i) the issuance of a variance will result in increased premium rates
for flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25.00 for $100.00 of insurance
coverage; and (ii) such construction increases risks to life and property.
   2.   Factors upon Which the Decision of the Board of Adjustment Shall Be
Based.  In passing upon applications for Variances, the Board shall consider
all relevant factors specified in other sections of this chapter and:
      A.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments.
      B.   The danger that materials may be swept on to other land or
downstream to the injury of others.
      C.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary conditions.
      D.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
      E.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the City.
      F.   The requirements of the facility for a floodplain location.
      G.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use.
      H.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
      I.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for the area.
      J.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
      K.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood water expected at the site.
      L.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems), facilities, streets, and bridges. 
      M.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this
chapter.
   3.   Conditions Attached to Variances.  Upon consideration of the factors
listed above, the Board of Adjustment may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose of this
chapter.  Such conditions may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
      A.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
      B.   Limitation of periods of use and operation.
      C.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed restrictions.
      D.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes,
levees, and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the
Department of Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative
to achieving the purpose of this chapter.
      E.   Floodproofing measures.
160.07   NONCONFORMING USES.
   1.   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of the ordinance codified in this chapter, but
which is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, may be
continued subject to the following conditions:
      A.   If such use is discontinued for six consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
      B.   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   2.   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50
percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred, unless
it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.  This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
State or local health, sanitary, building, or safety codes or regulations or
the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation.
160.08   PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
the requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor.  Any person who violates this
chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction
thereof be fined not more than $650.00.  Nothing herein contained shall prevent
the City from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy violation.
160.09   AMENDMENTS.
The regulations and standards set forth in this chapter may from time to time
be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed.  No amendment, supplement,
change, or modification shall be undertaken without prior approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
CHAPTER 165
ZONING REGULATIONS
165.01  Title                                165.13  R-2 Mixed Residential District
165.02  Purpose                              165.14  R-3 Mobile Home Park District
165.03  Nature                               165.15  C Commercial District
165.04  Definitions                          165.16  ML Light Industrial District
165.05  Establishment of Districts           165.17  HM Heavy Manufacturing District
165.06  Zoning Map                           165.18  Signs
165.07  Rules for Interpretation of District 165.19  Nonconforming Buildings, Structures and Uses of Land
Boundaries
165.08  Annexed Territory                    165.20  Additional Requirements, Exceptions, Modifications and
                                              Interpretations
165.09  General Provisions                   165.21  Administration and Enforcement
165.10  FP FloodPlain District               165.22  Building Construction; Certificates
165.11  A Agricultural District              165.23  Violations and Legal Status Provisions
165.12  R-1 Single-Family Residential
District
 
165.01   TITLE.
This chapter, in pursuance of the authority granted by the Revised Statutes of
the State of Iowa, Chapter 414, Section 1, shall be known as and may be
referred to and cited as the “Zoning Ordinance of the City of Kingsley, Iowa.”
165.02   PURPOSE.
The various use districts created by this chapter and the various sections of
this chapter are adopted for the purposes, among others, of:
   1.   Carrying out the Comprehensive Plan for the City.
   2.   Promoting the public health, safety, morals, comfort, general welfare,
and preserving the natural, scenic and historically significant areas of the
City.
   3.   Helping to achieve greater efficiency and economy of land development
by promoting the grouping of those activities which have similar needs and are
compatible.
   4.   Encouraging such distribution of population, classification of land
use, and distribution of land development throughout the City, which will tend
to facilitate adequate and economic provision of transportation, communication,
water supply, drainage, sanitation, education, recreation, and other public
requirements.
   5.   Lessening or avoiding congestion in the public streets and highways.
   6.   Protecting against fire, explosion, noxious fumes, flood, panic, and
other dangers in the interest of public health, safety, comfort, and general
welfare.
   7.   Helping to insure that all residential, commercial, and manufacturing
structures as well as other types of structures will be accessible to fire
fighting and other emergency equipment.
   8.   Prohibiting the formation or expansion of nonconforming uses of land,
buildings, and structures that are adversely affecting the character and value
of desirable development in each district.
   9.   Promoting the development of residential neighborhoods, which are free
of noise, dust, fumes, and heavy traffic volumes in which each dwelling unit is
assured of light, air, and open spaces.
   10.   Helping to prevent land development activities which lead to roadside
blight, and to minimize the effects of nuisance producing activities.
   11.   Promoting and guiding the continued growth and expansion of the City
while protecting the natural, economic, historic and scenic resources of the
City.
   12.   Conserving the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
City.
   13.   Defining the powers and duties of the Zoning Officer and other bodies
as provided herein.
165.03   NATURE.
This chapter classifies and regulates the use of land, buildings, and
structures within the corporate limits of the City.  The regulations contained
herein are necessary to promote the health, safety, convenience, morals and
welfare of the inhabitants, and to preserve the natural, scenic and
historically significant areas of the City by dividing the City into zoning
districts and regulating therein the use of the land and the use and size of
the buildings as to height and number of stories, the coverage of the land by
buildings, the size of yards and open spaces, the location of buildings, and
the density of population.
165.04   DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of the chapter and in order to carry out the provisions
contained herein, certain words, terms, phrases, and illustrations are to be
interpreted and defined herein.  The word “lot” includes the words “plot or
parcel” and the word “building” includes “structure.”  Terms not herein defined
shall have the meaning customarily assigned to them.
   1.   “Accessory building or use” means a building or use on the same lot
with and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal
building or use.
   2.   “Alley” means a public way, other than a street, 20 feet or less in
width, affording secondary means of access to abutting property.
   3.   “Alterations, structural” means any change in the supporting members of
a building such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
   4.   “Apartment” means a room or suite of rooms used as the dwelling of a
family, including bath and culinary accommodations, located in a building in
which there are three or more such rooms or suites.
   5.   “Auto/car wash” means a building, or portion thereof, containing
facilities for washing more than one automobile; using production line methods
with a chain conveyor, blower, steam cleaning device, or other mechanical
devises, or providing space, water, equipment, or soap for the complete or
partial hand-washing of such automobiles, whether by operator or by a customer.
   6.   “Automobile service station” means any building, structure, or land
used for the dispensing, sale, or offering for sale at retail of any vehicular
fuels, oils, or accessories and in connection with which is performed general
vehicular servicing as distinguished from automotive repairs.
   7.   “Basement” means any enclosed area of a building which has its floor or
lowest level below ground level (sub-grade) on at least three sides.
   8.   “Billboard” means a type of sign having more than 100 square feet of
display surface and which is either erected on the ground or attached to or
supported by a building or structure.
   9.   “Board of Adjustment” means the Zoning Board of Adjustment of the City.
   10.   “Boarding, rooming, and lodging house” means a building other than a
hotel where, for compensation and by arrangement, meals, lodging, or lodging
and meals are provided for three or more persons on a weekly or monthly basis.
   11.   “Building” means any structure designed or built for the support,
enclosure, shelter, or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or property of
any kind.
   12.   “Building height” means the vertical distance from the first story
sill to the highest point of the roof.
   13.   “Building length” means greatest horizontal distance measurable
between the exterior walls of a building.  Building length will usually be
measured between the wall facing the building’s front lot line and the wall
facing the rear of the lot line.
   14.   “Building width” means the greatest horizontal distance measurable
between exterior walls of a building, as measured at right angles from the
building length.  Building width will usually be measured between the walls
facing side lot lines.
   15.   “Carport” means a roofed structure providing space for the parking of
motor vehicles and enclosed on not more than three sides.  For the purpose of
this chapter a carport attached to a principal building shall be considered a
part of the principal building and subject to all yard requirements therein.
   16.   “Child care center” means any place, home, or institution which
receives four or more children under the age of 16 years, and not of common
parentage, for care apart from their natural parents, legal guardian, or
custodians, when received for regular periods of time for compensation.
   17.   “Clinic” means a building or buildings used by physicians, dentists,
veterinarians, osteopaths, chiropractors, and allied professions for outpatient
care of persons requiring such professional service.
   18.   “Consignment and auction sales operations” means a business that, on
an ongoing basis, stores and sells personal property to the public indoors.
   19.   “Developmentally disabled” refers to a disability of a person which
has continued or can be expected to continue indefinitely and which is one of
the following:
      A.   Attributable to mental retardation, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, or
autism.
      B.   Attributable to any other condition found to be closely related to
mental retardation.
      C.   Attributable to dyslexia resulting from a disability.
      D.   Attributable to a mental or nervous disorder.
   20.   “Drive-in restaurant or refreshment stand” means any place or premises
principally used for the sale, dispensing, or serving of food, refreshment, or
beverages in automobiles, including those establishments where customers may
serve themselves and may eat or drink the food, refreshments, or beverages on
or off the premises.
   21.   “Driveway” means a private roadway, providing access for vehicles to a
parking space, garage, dwelling or other structure.
   22.   “Dwelling” means any building or structure (or portion thereof)
designed or adapted to serve as a place of abode for one or more persons, or
one or more households. 
   23.   “Dwelling, condominium” means a multiple dwelling, as defined herein,
whereby the title to each dwelling unit is held in separate ownership, and the
real estate on which the units are located is held in common ownership solely
by the owners of the units with each owner having an undivided interest in the
common real estate.
   24.   “Dwelling, row” means any one of three or more attached dwellings in a
continuous row, each dwelling designed and erected as a unit on a separate lot
and separated from one another by an approved wall or walls, and may also be
referred to as a “townhouse.”
   25.   “Dwelling unit” means a dwelling that consists of one or more rooms
which are arranged, designed, or used as living quarters for one family or
household only.  Ordinarily a dwelling unit will include accommodations for
sleeping, for eating, for preparing and storing food, for bathing, and for
other necessary life activities, and will be a location where such life
activities may be expected to occur.
   26.   “Dwelling, single-family” means a dwelling containing one dwelling
unit, designed or adapted for occupancy by not more than one family or
household.
   27.   “Dwelling, two-family” means a detached residential building
containing two dwelling units, designed for occupancy by not more than two
families or households, with separate housekeeping and cooking facilities for
each.
   28.   “Dwelling, multiple-family” means a residential building designed for
occupancy by three or more families or households, with separate housekeeping
and cooking facilities for each.
   29.   “Dwelling, detached” means a dwelling that is not attached to any
other dwelling by any means.  The detached dwelling does not have any roof,
wall, or floor in common with any other dwelling unit.
   30.   “Easement” means a grant of one or more of the property rights by the
property owner to and/or for the use by the public, a corporation, or another
person or entity.
   31.   “Economic base” means the production, distribution, and consumption of
goods and services within a planning area.
   32.   “Egress” means an exit.
   33.   “Eminent domain” means the authority of a government to take, or to
authorize the taking of, private property for public use for just compensation.
   34.   “Environmental Impact Statement” (EIS) means a statement on the effect
of development proposals and other major activities which significantly affect
the environment.
   35.   “Essential services” are the erection, alteration, or maintenance, by
public utilities, municipal or other governmental agencies, of underground or
overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or distribution systems,
collection, communication, supply or disposal systems, including poles, wires,
mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call
boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, and other similar equipment and accessories
in connection therewith which may be reasonably necessary for the furnishing of
adequate service by such public utilities or municipal or other governmental
agencies for the public health, safety or general welfare, but not including
buildings.
   36.   “Family” means a group of immediate-kindred persons, related by blood,
marriage, or adoption.  A family is considered a household for purposes of this
chapter.
   37.   “Family home” means a community based residential home which is
licensed as a residential care facility under Chapter 135C of the Code of Iowa
or as a child foster care facility under Chapter 237 of the Code of Iowa to
provide room and board, personal care, habilitation services, and supervision
in a family environment exclusively for not more than eight developmentally
disabled persons and any necessary support personnel.  A family home does not
mean an individual foster care family as licensed under Chapter 237 of the Code
of Iowa.
   38.   “Farm” or “farmland” means a parcel of land used for agricultural
purposes and the growing and production of all agricultural products thereon,
and their storage on the area, or for the raising thereon of livestock.
   39.   “Farm animal” means the production, keeping, or maintenance for sale,
lease, or personal use of animals useful to humans, including but not limited
to: dairy animals, poultry, livestock, including beef cattle, sheep, swine,
horses, ponies, mules, or goats or any mutations or hybrids thereof, including
the breeding and grazing of any or all of such animals; bees, fish, and fur
animals but not including rabbits kept as pets.
   40.   “Feasibility study” means an analysis of a specific project or program
to determine if it can be successfully carried out.
   41.   “Feedlot” means any parcel of land or premises on which the principal
use is the concentrated feeding within a confined area of cattle, hogs, sheep
or poultry.  The term does not include areas which are used for the raising of
crops or other vegetation, and upon which livestock are allowed to graze or
feed.
   42.   “Fence, residential” means a barrier and/or structure erected in an R
District intended to provide security, mark a boundary, or as a means of
landscaping with the centerline of said barrier to be located inside the
designated property line.  Such fence shall be constructed of materials
commonly used for landscape fencing such as masonry block, lumber, chain link,
but does not include corrugated sheet metal, barbed wire or salvage material.
   43.   “Fence, nonresidential” means a barrier and/or structure erected in a
district other than an R District intended to provide security, mark a boundary
or a means of landscaping with the centerline of said barrier to be located
inside the designated property line, provided no such fence is constructed of
salvaged material or uses barbed wire closer than six feet to the ground except
a fence used purely for agricultural purposes.
   44.   “Flag lot” means a lot not fronting on or abutting a public road and
where access to the public road is by a narrow, private right-of-way.
   45.   “Frontage” means that side of a lot abutting on a street; the front
lot line.
   46.   “Garage, private” means an accessory building designed or used for the
storage of motor-driven vehicles owned and used by the occupants of the
building to which it is accessory.
   47.   “Garage, public” means a building or portion thereof other than a
private or storage garage, designed or used for equipping, servicing,
repairing, hiring, selling, or storing motor-driven vehicles.
   48.   “Garage, storage” means a building or portion thereof designed or used
exclusively for term storage by pre-arrangement of motor-driven vehicles, as
distinguished from daily storage furnished transients, and at which motor fuels
and oils are not sold, and motor-driven vehicles are not equipped, repaired,
hired or sold.
   49.   “Grade” means the degree of rise or descent of a sloping surface. 
(See Figure 1 below)
Figure 1: Grade
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7660975a45d3cb4216abd30cef0078edfb52ff3e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1449.png]
   50.   “Grade, finished” means the final evaluation of the ground surface
after development.  (See Figure 2 below)
Figure 2: Cut and Fill Cross Section
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7660975a45d3cb4216abd30cef0078edfb52ff3e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1451.png]
   51.   “Grade, natural” means the evaluation of the ground surface in its
natural state before manmade alterations.  (See Figure 1 above)
   52.   “Group care facility” means a facility which provides resident
services to nine or more individuals of whom one or more are unrelated.  These
individuals are handicapped, aged, or disabled, are undergoing rehabilitation,
and are provided services to meet their needs.  This category includes any
licensed or supervised federal, State or County health/welfare agencies, such
as group homes (all ages), halfway houses, resident schools, resident
facilities, and foster or boarding homes.
   53.   “Historic preservation” means the protection, rehabilitation, and
restoration of districts, sites, buildings, structures, and artifacts
significant in American history, architecture, archaeology or culture.
   54.   “Home occupation” means any gainful occupation or profession conducted
entirely within an enclosed dwelling unit, which is clearly incidental and
secondary to residential occupancy and does not change the character thereof. 
[See Section
165.09(23)]
   55.   “Household” means one or more persons living together in a single
dwelling unit, with common access to, and common use of all areas within the
dwelling unit.
   56.   “Ingress” means access or entry.
   57.   “Institution” means an organization whose purpose is to promote public
welfare or learning, including (but not limited to) a church, library, public
or private school, hospital, or municipal government or other non-profit or
public organization.  For the purposes of this chapter, “institution” includes
the building, structures or land owned or used for public purposes, by such
organizations.
   58.   “Junkyard” means any area where waste, discarded, or salvaged
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored or abandoned, baled or packed,
disassembled, or handled, including the dismantling or wrecking of automobiles
or other vehicles or machinery, house wrecking yards, house wrecking and
structural steel materials and equipment; but not including areas where such
uses are conducted entirely within a completely enclosed building.
   59.   “Kennel, dog” (commercial) means any parcel of land on which three or
more dogs, six months old or older, are kept for the purposes of breeding,
grooming, boarding or other activities associated with the care of dogs for
commercial purposes.
   60.   “Kennel, dog” (private) means any parcel of land on which no more than
two dogs are kept, however, this shall not include breeding, grooming, boarding
or other activities associated with the care of dogs other than the owner’s
dogs.
   61.   “Laundromat” means an establishment providing washing, drying and/or
dry cleaning machines on the premises for rental use to the general public for
family laundering and/or dry cleaning purposes.
   62.   “Loading space” means an off-street space or berth used for the
loading or unloading of vehicles.
   63.   “Lot” means, for the purposes of this chapter, a parcel of land of at
least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage and
area to provide such yards and other open space as are herein required.  Such
lot shall have frontage on a public street or private street and may consist
of:  (i) a single lot of record; (ii) a portion of a lot of record; (iii) a
combination of complete lots of record; of complete lots of record and portions
of lots of record; or of portions of lots of record; and (iv) a parcel of land
described by metes and bounds; provided that in no case of division or
combination shall any residual lot or parcel be created which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   64.   “Lot area” means the total area within the lot lines of a lot,
excluding any street right-of-way.
   65.   “Lot, corner” means a lot abutting upon two or more streets at their
intersection.
   66.   “Lot depth” means the mean horizontal distance between the front and
rear lot lines. (See Figure 3)
   67.   “Lot, double frontage” means a lot having a frontage on two
nonintersecting streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
   68.   “Lot frontage” means the length of the front line measured at the
street right-of-way line. (See Figure 3.) With a corner lot, the primary lot
frontage of a corner lot or a double frontage lot is the frontage abutting the
street which provides the lot’s County E-911 address.
   69.   “Lot, interior” means a lot other than a corner lot.
   70.   “Lot line” means a line of record bounding a lot which divides one lot
from another lot or from a public or private street or any other public space.
(See Figure 3)
   71.   “Lot line, front” means the lot line abutting a platted street or
highway (or, if the street or highway is un-platted, the centerline thereof.) 
A lot line abutting upon a public alley is not a front lot line, unless the lot
abuts no other public way.  If the lot abuts two or more streets, the front lot
line is that line abutting the street which provides the lots County E-911
address.
   72.   “Lot line, rear” means the lot line opposite and most distant from the
front lot line; or in the case of triangular or otherwise irregularly shaped
lots, are 10 feet in length entirely within the lot, parallel to and at a
maximum distance from the front lot line. (See Figure 3)
   73.   “Lot line, side” means any lot line other than a front or rear lot
line. (See Figure 3).
   74.   “Lot, minimum area of” means the smallest lot area established by the
Zoning Ordinance on which a use or structure may be located in a particular
district.
   75.   “Lot of record” means a lot which is a part of a subdivision, the plat
of which has been recorded at or before the effective date of the Zoning
Ordinance in the office of the Plymouth County Recorder.
   76.   “Lot width” means the horizontal measure of a lot at the point of its
greatest linear extent, measured at right angles to a line measuring lot
length.  (See Figure 3)
Figure 3: Yard Definitions
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7660975a45d3cb4216abd30cef0078edfb52ff3e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1453.png]
   77.   “Massage establishment” means any place of business wherein massage
(as the practice of a profession, scientifically applied to the patient by a
massage therapist’s hands) is administered or used.
   78.   “Manufactured home” means a factory-built single-family structure,
which is manufactured or constructed under the authority of the 42 U.S.C. Code
Section 5403, National Manufactured Home construction and Safety Standards Act
of 1974, and is to be used exclusively as a place for human habitation, but
which is not constructed with permanent hitch or other device allowing it to be
moved other than for the purpose of moving to a permanent site, and which does
not have permanently attached to its body or frame and wheels or axles.  A
mobile home is not a manufactured home unless it has been converted to real
property and is taxed as a site dwelling.  For the purpose of these
regulations, a manufactured home shall be built after June 15, 1976, and bear a
seal certifying that it is in compliance with the National Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards act of 1974.  A manufactured home meeting the
preceding requirements shall be considered the same as a site-built, single-
family detached dwelling.
   79.   “Manufacturing” means establishments engaged in the mechanical or
chemical transformation of materials or substances into new products including
the assembling of component parts, the manufacturing of products, and the
blending of materials such as lubricating oils, plastics, resins or liquors.
   80.   “Mobile home” means any vehicle without motive power used or so
manufactured or constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon
the public streets and highways and so designed, constructed, or reconstructed
as will permit the vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or
more persons; but does not also include any such vehicle with motive power not
registered as a motor vehicle in Iowa.  A mobile home shall be construed to
remain a mobile home, subject to all regulations applying thereto, whether or
not wheels, axles, hitch, or other appurtenances of mobility are removed and
regardless of the nature of the foundation provided.  Nothing in this
definition shall be construed as permitting a mobile home in other than an
approved mobile home park.
   81.   “Mobile home park” means a tract of land that is used, designed,
maintained, or held out for rent to accommodate one or more mobile homes. 
Mobile homes located in a mobile home park shall not include an automobile or
mobile home sales lot on which unoccupied mobile homes are parked for
inspection or sale.
   82.   “Modular home” means a factory built housing unit certified as meeting
the State of Iowa Building Code as applicable to modular housing.  Once
certified by the State, modular housing shall be subject to the same
regulations as site-built homes.
   83.   “Motor court or motel” means a building or group of buildings used
primarily for the temporary residence of motorists or travelers with parking
facilities conveniently located to each unit, and may include accessory
facilities such as swimming pool, restaurant, meeting rooms, etc.
   84.   “Nonconforming use” means a use or activity which was lawful prior to
the adoption, revision or amendment of a Zoning Ordinance, but which fails, by
reason of such adoption, revision or amendment, to conform to the present
requirements of the zoning district.
   85.   “Nursing home” means a home for the aged, chronically ill or incurable
persons in which three or more persons not of the immediate family are
received, kept, or provided with food, shelter and care, for compensation; but
not including hospitals, clinics, or similar institutions devoted primarily to
the diagnosis, treatment, or care of the sick or injured.
   86.   “Overhang” means the part of a roof or wall which extends beyond the
façade of a lower wall.
   87.   “Planning Commission” means the Planning and Zoning Commission of the
City of Kingsley, Iowa.
   88.   “Parking space” means a surfaced area, enclosed in the principal
building, exclusive of driveways, permanently reserved for the temporary
storage of one automobile and connected with an accessory building, or an
unenclosed area having an area of not less than 180 square feet street or alley
by a surfaced driveway which affords satisfactory ingress and egress for
automobiles.
   89.   “Place” means an open unoccupied space or a public or private
thoroughfare other than a street or alley permanently reserved as the principal
means of access to abutting property.
   90.   “Principal building” is a single-family dwelling in an R-1 or R-
2 District.
   91.   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicular type portable structure
without permanent foundation, which can be towed, hauled or driven and
primarily designed as temporary living accommodation for recreational, camping
and travel use and including but not limited to travel trailers, truck campers,
camping trailers and self-propelled motor homes.
   92.   “Satellite dish antenna” means a satellite receiver, a satellite
ground dish antenna or a satellite rooftop antenna, which may or may not be
able to rotate to enable the dish to aim at different satellites for the
purpose of television reception.
   93.   “Sidewalk” means a paved or surfaced area, paralleling and usually
separated from the street, used as a pedestrian walkway.
   94.   “Sign” means any structure or part thereof or device attached thereto
or painted, or represented thereon, which displays or includes any letter,
work, model, banner, flag, pennant, insignia, device or representation used as,
or which is in the nature of an announcement, direction, or advertisement. 
“Sign” includes billboard but does not include the flag, pennant or insignia of
any nation, state, city or other political unit, or of any political,
educational, charitable, philanthropic, civic, professional, religious or like
campaign, drive, movement or event.
   95.   “Site plan” means a plan (to scale) showing uses and structures
proposed for a parcel of land as required by the regulations involved.
   96.   “Story” means that portion of a building, other than a basement,
included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next
above it, or, if there be no floor above it, then the space between the floor
and the ceiling next above it.
   97.   “Story, half” means a space under a sloping roof which has the line of
intersection of roof decking and exterior wall face not more than four feet
above the top floor level.
   98.   “Street” means a general term used to describe a public right-of-way
which provides a channel for vehicular and pedestrian movement, and may provide
for vehicular and pedestrian access to properties adjacent to it, and which may
also provide space for the location of utilities (both above and below ground).
   99.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected, other than
sidewalks or driveways, with a mixed location on the ground, or attached to
something having a fixed location on the ground. Among other things, structures
include buildings, mobile homes, billboards and poster panels.
   100.   “Swimming pool” means a tank of water either above or below grade
level in which the depth of the container exceeds 24 inches.  Swimming pools,
hot tubs, whirlpool baths and tubs, jacuzzi type tubs or baths, are considered
“swimming pools” if they are located outdoors.
   101.   “Temporary structure” means any structure, including any shed,
building, or enclosure of any kind used for storage, commercial or business or
residential purposes, which any person or business intends to place on the same
lot with or on any lot immediately adjacent to, any permanent structure used
for business or commercial or residential purposes, that does not have a
permanent foundation or attached to a permanent foundation.  This term includes
“temporary portable storage container,” which is defined as a container
designed, used, rented, or leased for the temporary storage of commercial,
industrial, or residential household goods and that does not have a foundation
or attached to a permanent foundation.
   102.   “Trailer camp” or “tourist camp” means an area providing spaces for
two or more recreational vehicles, or tent sites for temporary occupancy, with
necessary incidental services, sanitation and recreation facilities to serve
the traveling public.
   103.   “Warehouse storage facility” means a building or portion of a
building where goods are stored for hire.
   104.   “Yard” means an open space between a building and the adjoining lot
lines unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from 30 inches
above the ground upward, except as otherwise provided herein. In measuring a
yard for the purpose of determining the width of a side yard, the depth of a
front yard, or the depth of the rear yard, the minimum horizontal distance
between the lot lines and the main building shall be used. (See Figure 3)
   105.   “Yard, front” means a yard extending across the full width of the lot
and measured between the front lot line and the building.
   106.   “Yard, rear” means a yard extending across the rear of a lot and
being the required minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and
rear of the main building or any projections thereof other than the projections
of uncovered steps, unenclosed balconies or unenclosed porches.  On all lots
the rear yard shall be in the rear of the front yard. (See Figure 3)
   107.   “Yard, side” means a yard between the main building and the side line
of the lot, and extending from the required front yard to the required rear
yard, and being the minimum horizontal distance between a side lot line and the
side of the main building or any projections thereto. (See Figure 3)
   108.   “Zoning Administrator” means the zoning official appointed by the
City Council.
   109.   “Zoning Commission” means the Planning and Zoning Commission of the
City.
165.05   ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
For the purposes of this chapter, the City is hereby organized into the
following zoning districts:
   FP District   Flood Plain District
   A District   Agricultural District
   R-l District   Single-Family Residential District
   R-2 District   Mixed Residential District
   R-3 District   Mobile Home Park District
   C District   Commercial District
   ML District   Light Industrial District
   HM District   Heavy Manufacturing District
165.06   ZONING MAP.
The location and boundaries of the zoning districts established by this chapter
are set forth on the map entitled “Zoning Map,” which is located in the
Kingsley City Hall and hereby made a part of this chapter.  Said map, together
with everything shown thereon and all amendments thereto, shall be as much a
part of this chapter as though fully set forth and described herein.  (See
Editor’s Note at the end of this chapter for ordinances amending the Zoning
Map.)
165.07   RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the precise location of any of the
aforesaid districts shown on the Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
   1.   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following streets,
highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow the centerlines of such
streets, highways, or alleys.
   2.   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following platted lot
lines or other property lines shall be construed to follow said boundary lines.
   3.   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following railroad lines
shall be construed to lie midway between the main tracks of such railroad
lines.
   4.   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following the center
lines of streams, rivers, or other continuously flowing water courses shall be
construed as following the channel centerline of such water courses taken at a
mean low water mark.
   5.   Boundaries shown as following or closely following the City limits
shall be construed as following such City limit lines.
   6.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features indicated
in subsections 1 through 6 of this section shall be so construed.  Distances
not specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map shall be determined by
the scale of the map.
   7.   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the Official Zoning Map, the Board of Adjustment
shall interpret the district boundaries.
   8.   Whenever any street, alley, or other public easement is vacated, the
district classification of the property to which the vacated portions of land
accrue shall become the classifications of the vacated land.
165.08   ANNEXED TERRITORY.
Before a Petition for Annexation of Territory to the City of Kingsley, Iowa,
shall be presented to the City Council for action, the Petition shall first be
submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission.  The Commission shall review
the Petition and make a recommendation with regard to the appropriate zoning
classification for the property set forth in the Petition.  In the event the
City Council shall approve the annexation of the territory, the property shall
be annexed pursuant to the classification recommended by the Commission.
165.09   GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   1.   Zoning Affects Every Structure In Every District.  Except as
hereinafter provided, no building, structure, temporary or permanent, or land
shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, occupied, moved, altered, or
repaired, except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the
class of District in which it is located.
   2.   Minimum Street Frontage.  No lot shall be created unless it abuts at
least 25 feet on a public street.
   3.   Use of Lot of Record.  In any Residence District on a lot of record at
the time of enactment of the Zoning Ordinance, a single-family dwelling may be
established regardless of the size of the lot, provided all other requirements
of this chapter are met.  However, where two or more vacant and contiguous
substandard recorded lots are held in common ownership, they shall be combined
into zoning lots and shall thereafter be maintained in common ownership and
shall be so joined and developed for the purpose of forming an effective and
conforming zoning lot.  For the purpose of this section, the razing of a
building on a substandard lot shall constitute the formation of a vacant lot.
   4.   Lots Unserved by Sewer and/or Water.  In any residential district where
neither public water supply nor public sanitary sewer are reasonably available,
one single dwelling may be constructed, provided the otherwise specified lot
area and width requirements shall be a minimum of one acre.
   5.   Accessory Buildings, Structures and Uses.
      A.   Time of Construction.  No accessory building or structure shall be
constructed on any lot prior to the time of construction of the principal
building to which it is accessory.
      B.   Permit Required.  A permit is required for all detached accessory
building or buildings with a permanent foundation.
      C.   Height of Accessory Building.  No detached accessory building or
structure shall exceed 18 feet in height, and the side walls shall not exceed
12 feet in height.
      D.   Location on Lot.  No accessory building or structure shall be
erected in any front yard.  Accessory buildings or structures shall be no
closer than three feet from any main buildings.
   6.   More Than One Principal Structure on Lot.  In any District more than
one principal structure, housing a permitted principal use, may be erected on a
single lot provided that the area, yard and other requirements shall be met for
each structure as though it were on an individual lot.
   7.   Required Yard Cannot Be Reduced or Used by Another Building.  No lot,
yard, court, parking area or other open space shall be so reduced in area or
dimension as to make any such area or dimension less than the minimum required
by this chapter, and if already less than the minimum required it shall not be
further reduced.  No required open space provided around any building or
structure shall be included as part of any open space required for another
building or structure.
   8.   Conversion of Dwelling.  The conversion of any building or structure
into a dwelling, or the conversion of any dwelling so as to accommodate an
increased number of dwelling units or households, shall be permitted only
within a district in which a new building for similar occupancy would be
permitted under the Zoning Ordinance, and only when the resulting occupancy
will comply with the requirements governing new construction in such district
with respect to minimum lot size, lot area per dwelling unit, dimensions of
yards and other open spaces, and off-street parking.  Each conversion shall be
subject also to such further requirements as may be specified hereinafter
within the section applying to such district.
   9.   Yard and Parking Space Restriction.  No part of yard, or other open
space, or off-street parking or loading space required about or in connection
with any building for the purpose of complying with this title, shall be
included as part of yard, open space, off-street parking, or loading space
similarly required for any other building.
   10.   Traffic Visibility Across Corner Lots.  In a residential,
manufacturing, or agricultural district on any corner lot, no fence, wall,
hedge, or other plantings or structures that will obstruct vision and which
shall be over two and one-half feet in height above the centerline grades of
the intersecting streets shall be erected, placed or maintained within the
triangular area formed at a point that is 25 feet distant from the point of
intersection of the right-of-way lines.
Figure 4: Traffic Visibility Across Corner Lots
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7660975a45d3cb4216abd30cef0078edfb52ff3e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1455.png]
   11.   Essential Services.  Essential services shall be permitted as
authorized and regulated by law and other ordinances of the community, it being
the intention hereof to exempt such essential services from the application of
this chapter.
   12.   Validity of Existing Building Permits.  Nothing herein contained shall
require any change in the overall layout, plans, construction, size or
designated uses of any development, building, structure or part thereof, for
which the official approvals and required building permits have been granted
before the enactment of the Zoning Ordinance, the construction of which,
conforming with such plans, shall have been started prior to the effective date
of the Ordinance and the completion thereof carried on in a normal manner
within the subsequent six-month period, and not discontinued until completion,
except for reasons beyond the builder’s control.
   13.   Height Exceptions.  The height limitations contained in Subsection 21
of this section (bulk requirements) do not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas,
chimneys, antennas, water tanks, ventilators, elevator housing, or other
structures placed above roof level and not intended for human occupancy.  (See
Section
165.19)
   14.   Public Right-of-Way Use.  No portion of the public street or alley
right-of-way shall be used or occupied by an abutting use of land or structures
for storage or display purposes, or to provide any parking or loading space
required by this chapter, or for any other purpose that would obstruct the use
or maintenance of the public right-of-way.
   15.   Fences. 
      A.   Fences in an R District.  Residential fences or landscape features
such as sculpture or walls must be erected or constructed 24 inches from the
center of the property line, unless a variance is approved, or on the
centerline with appropriate easements.  No portion of any fence shall extend
onto adjacent property or right-of-way, provided no such fence in any front,
side, or rear yard having street frontage exceeds four feet in height and six
feet in height in the case of side and rear yards not having street frontage. 
In front and side yards having street frontage, fence materials shall allow for
adequate visibility.  All residential fences shall be properly maintained.
      B.   Fences in districts other than an R District.  Nonresidential fences
located in a district other than an R District must be located with the
centerline of said fence at least six inches from the property line and cannot
exceed eight feet in height.
   16.   Proposed Use Not Covered.  Any proposed use not covered in this
chapter as a permitted use or special exception shall be referred to the
Planning and Zoning Commission for a recommendation as to the proper district
in which such use should be permitted and the chapter amended before a permit
is issued for such proposed use.
   17.   Access Required.  Every building hereinafter erected or structurally
altered shall be on a lot having frontage on a platted street.
   18.   Application of Regulations.  The regulations set by this chapter
within each district shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure
or land, except as hereinafter provided.
   19.   Permitted Uses.  Use is permitted in all zoning districts for the
purposes of the distribution of essential services.  However design and
placement of said equipment and devices may be reviewed by the Board of
Adjustment and approved by the City Council.  All other uses are permitted only
as listed under each specific Zoning District.
   20.   Temporary Use Exceptions. 
      A.   The following uses may be permitted by a temporary use exception
permit, valid for 10 days or less to the applicant, subject to the review and
approval of the application by the Board of Adjustment.
         (1)   Carnival, circus.
         (2)   Festivals, auctions.
      B.   In determining whether a temporary use exception permit shall be
granted, the Board of Adjustment shall give consideration to:
         (1)   Health, safety, morals, and comfort of area residents.
         (2)   Adverse impact on land uses.
         (3)   Possibility of traffic congestion.
         (4)   Harm to public roads.
         (5)   Erosion of adjacent property.
         (6)   Threat to any source of water supply.
Conditions and restrictions as determined necessary to protect the public
health, safety, morals, and comfort may be attached to the permit.  The above
events listed do not constitute the complete list, as other similar events of a
temporary nature may also be permitted.
   21.   Bulk Requirements.  All new buildings shall conform to the building
regulations established herein for the district in which each building shall be
located. Further, no existing building shall be enlarged, reconstructed,
structurally altered, converted or relocated in such a manner as to conflict or
to further conflict with the bulk regulations of this chapter for the district
in which such buildings shall be located.  Minimum bulk requirements are listed
on Table 1, Bulk Requirements, on the following page.
   22.   Farm Animals.  It shall be unlawful to keep or maintain any swine,
goats, sheep, fowl, cattle, horses, or “farm animals” as defined in Section
165.04(39) within the City limits, except as provided in Section
165.11(5).
Table 1: Bulk Requirements
         Maximum                                          Minimum
District Building Minimum  Minimum   Minimum    Minimum   Side       Minimum
Use      Height   Lot Area Lot Width Front Yard Side Yard Street,    Rear Yard
                                                          Corner Lot
                                                             Minimum
              Maximum   Minimum  Minimum Minimum   Minimum   Side    Minimum
District Use  Building  Lot Area Lot     Front     Side Yard Street, Rear Yard
              Height             Width   Yard                Corner
                                                             Lot
A-1 Single-   35 feet   9,000
Family        or 3      square   75 feet 20 feet   6 feet    20 feet 20 feet
              stories   feet
R-1 Single-   35 feet   9,000
Family        or 3      square   75 feet 20 feet   6 feet    20 feet 20 feet
              stories   feet
R-2 Mixed     35 feet   9,000
Residential   or 3      square   75 feet 20 feet   6 feet    20 feet 20 feet
              stories   feet
3-Plex or     35 feet   4,000
Larger        or 3      square   75 feet 20 feet   6 feet    20 feet 20 feet
(Minimum per  stories   feet
Unit)
                                         50 feet;
                                         each yard
                        3,000            abutting
R-3 Mobile              square           on a
Home Park     18 feet   feet     50 feet public    10 feet   50 feet 10 feet
                        (40 x            street
                        75)              shall be
                                         a front
                                         yard.
C-            35 feet
1 Commercial  or 3
              stories
M-            35 feet
1             or 3
Manufacturing stories
Accessory     18 feet
Buildings for or one
R-1, R-2 R-   story,                               6 feet            6 feet
3 Districts   whichever
              is lower
 
   23.   Dwelling; Minimum Size.  No building or structure in the City shall be
designed, adapted, constructed, or used for a dwelling unless that building or
structure contains a minimum of 576 square feet.  No tent, cabin or travel
trailer may be occupied as a dwelling.  No individual unit may be occupied by a
household numbering more than four members, unless household is a family.
   24.   Home Occupations.  To qualify as a permitted use in any District under
this chapter, any and all home occupations must satisfy all of the following
criteria:
      A.   Use of the property for home occupation must be clearly incidental
and secondary to the use of the dwelling unit as a residence (as shown by
comparative amounts of square footage used for home occupation and for living
space).
      B.   The occupation must be conducted entirely within an existing
dwelling unit or entirely within an accessory building.
      C.   The occupation must be conducted by a member of the family or
household residing within the dwelling unit, and employing no more than one
nonresident employee.
      D.   The occupation must show minimal evidence of its existence on the
premises, perceivable at or beyond the lot lines, by virtue of:  outside
storage, displays, noise, odors, smoke, vibration, heat, dust, electrical
disturbance or excessive generation of customer traffic.
      E.   Water, sewer, and waste disposal systems shall be subject to
approval of the City.
      F.   Only one identification sign may be displayed upon the lot, subject
to the following requirements:
         (1)   The sign may not display more than the name of the occupant and
the nature of the occupations.
         (2)   The sign shall not contain more than six square feet and shall
be no more than two feet high or not more than three feet in width.
         (3)   The sign shall be non-illuminated.
165.10   FP FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT.
The FP Floodplain District is intended to protect floodways and floodplains
from encroachment; to prevent future losses to property by prohibiting
construction in floodways, and to control construction in floodplains. 
Regulations and standards for the development of the Floodplain District are
contained in
Chapter 160 of this Code of Ordinances. 
   1.   Principal Uses.  Property and buildings in a FP Floodplain District
shall be used only for the following purposes:
      A.   Agricultural crops.
      B.   Pastures.
      C.   Parks.
      D.   Golf courses.
      E.   Extraction of sand and gravel.
   2.   Sign Regulations.  Sign regulations are as follows:
      A.   Traffic and official signs.
      B.   Roadside stands for sale of farm produce raised on the premises.
      C.   Signs pertaining to the sale or lease of property, or to activities
conducted on the property; provided, however these shall not exceed 30 square
feet in area.
165.11   A AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
The A Agricultural District is intended to provide regulations for land
situated on the fringe of the urban area that is used primarily for
agricultural purposes, but which will be undergoing urban development in the
near future.  Many tracts in this district will be in close proximity to
developing residential, commercial, or industrial uses.  The purpose of this
district is to restrict the permitted uses to those which are compatible with
both agricultural uses and the developing residential, commercial, or
industrial use.
   1.   Principal Uses Permitted.  Property and buildings in an A Agricultural
District shall be used only for the following purposes:
      A.   Agricultural crops only. 
      B.   Other agricultural uses, see Subsection 2 of this section.
   2.   Special Exceptions.  The following special exceptions may be applied
for pursuant to Section
165.21(4) of this chapter.  The Board of Adjustment may approve, deny, or table
an application in accordance with provisions contained therein:
      A.   Public utilities.
      B.   Cemetery or mausoleum.
   3.   Bulk Regulations.  Height regulations, lot area, frontage and yard
requirements shall be regulated as specified in Section
165.09(21).
   4.   Sign Regulations.  Sign regulations shall be as specified in Section
165.18.
   5.   Farm Animals.  No owner or operator of a farm or feedlot shall keep,
graze, or confine more than five head of cattle or hogs per acre unless the
property devoted thereto contains more than 10 acres; and any feed bins or
confinement barns must be at least 1,000 feet back from the outside property
lines in all directions.  Farming within the City not meeting the foregoing
area requirements is limited to crop and tree farming and horticulture,
including truck gardening, plant nurseries, and orchards.
165.12   R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
The R-l District is the most restrictive residential district.  The principal
use of land is for single-family dwellings and related recreational, religious
and educational institutions and facilities normally required to provide an
orderly and attractive residential area.  These residential areas are intended
to be defined and protected from encroachment of uses which are not appropriate
to a residential environment.  Internal stability, attractiveness, order and
efficiency are encouraged by providing for adequate light, air, and open space
for dwellings and related facilities and through consideration of the proper
functional relationship of the different uses.
   1.   Principal Uses Permitted.  Property and buildings in an R-1 Single-
Family Residential District shall be used only for the following purposes:
      A.   Single-family detached dwellings.
      B.   Duplexes.
      C.   Family homes, as defined herein.
      D.   Churches and temples.
      E.   Public schools, elementary, junior high and high schools.
      F.   Parochial or private schools having similar curricula as public
schools and having no rooms used regularly for housing or sleeping purposes.
      G.   Public, semi-public parks, and playgrounds.
      H.   Child care centers.
      I.   Home occupations.
      J.   Group care facilities.
      K.   Accessory uses which are customarily incidental to any of the above
stated uses, but not involving the conduct of business other than a home
occupation.  Accessory uses shall include private garages and carports, private
swimming pools and private greenhouses not operated for commercial purposes.
   2.   Special Exceptions.  The following special exceptions may be applied
for pursuant to Section
165.21(4) of this chapter.  The Board of Adjustment may approve, deny or table
an application in accordance with provisions contained therein:
      A.   Hospitals, family homes, nursing homes, convalescent homes, public
buildings, and/or community buildings, with the same off-street parking and
yards as those required for other institutional uses under this chapter.
      B.   Essential services.
      C.   Swimming pools, golf courses and country clubs, except miniature
courses or driving ranges operated for a profit.
      D.   The taking of boarders or the leasing of rooms by a resident family,
providing total number does not exceed two per building.
      E.   Funeral homes.
   3.   Bulk Requirements.  Height regulations, lot area, frontage, and yard
requirements are specified in Section
165.09(21).
   4.   Sign Regulations.  Sign regulations shall be as specified in Section
165.18.
   5.   Prohibitions.  Garage sales, yard sales, flea markets, auctions, or
other similar methods of selling tangible personal property shall not extend
longer than two consecutive days in a calendar year.  On any particular lot,
such sales may occur no more than a total of eight days in any calendar year. 
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to broaden the prohibitions set
forth in this section.
   6.   Temporary Structures.  Temporary structures made of nondurable
materials are prohibited in areas zoned R-1.  Nondurable materials include, but
are not limited to, canvas, tarp, and light weight plastic.
165.13   R-2 MIXED RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
The R-2 Mixed Residential District is to provide for two-family and medium high
population density.  The principal use of land may range from single-family to
multiple-family dwelling units.  Certain uses are permitted which are more
compatible functionally with intensive residential uses than with commercial
uses.  The recreational, religious, and educational institutions and facilities
normally required to provide an orderly and attractive residential area are
included.  Internal stability, attractiveness, order and efficiency are
encouraged by providing for adequate light, air and open space for dwellings
and related facilities and through consideration of the proper functional
relationship of each use permitted in the district.
   1.   Principal Uses Permitted.  Property and buildings in an R-2 Mixed
Residential District shall be used only for the following purposes:
      A.   Any use permitted in the R-l Single-Family Residential District.
      B.   Multiple, condominium and row dwellings.
      C.   Boarding and lodging houses.
      D.   Child care centers.
      E.   Religious and educational institutions.
      F.   Family home.
      G.   Private club or lodge, excepting one where the major activities are
a service customarily carried on as a business.
      H.   Accessory uses and buildings which are customarily incidental to any
of the above stated uses.
   2.   Special Exceptions.  The following special exceptions may be applied
for pursuant to Section
165.21(4).  The Board of Adjustment may approve, deny, or table an application
in accordance with provisions contained therein:
      A.   Private kindergartens and day nurseries, and child care centers.
      B.   Hospitals, family homes, nursing homes, convalescent homes, public
buildings, and/or community buildings, with the same off-street parking and
yards as those required for other institutional uses under this chapter.
      C.   Essential services.
      D.   Mortuary or funeral homes.
      E.   Medical and dental clinics.
      F.   Group care facilities.
   3.   Bulk Requirements.  Height regulations, lot area, frontage, and yard
requirements are specified in Section
165.09(21).
   4.   Sign Regulations.  Sign regulations shall be as specified in Section
165.18.
   5.   Temporary Structures.  Temporary structures made of nondurable
materials are prohibited in areas zoned R-2.  Nondurable materials include, but
are not limited to, canvas, tarp, and light weight plastic.
165.14   R-3 MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT.
The R-3 Mobile Home District is intended and designed for high density mobile
home development.  Internal stability, attractiveness, order and efficiency are
encouraged by providing for adequate light, air and open space for dwellings
and related facilities and through consideration of the proper functional
relationship of each use permitted in the district.
   1.   Property and buildings in an R-3 Mobile Home District shall be used
only for the following purposes:
      A.   Mobile home parks.
      B.   Accessory uses and buildings which are customarily incidental to the
above stated uses, but not involving the conduct of business.
   2.   Special Exceptions.  Any other uses deemed by the Board of Adjustment
to be appropriate to this district and incidental to the uses listed in
subsection 1 may be approved by the Board, in its discretion, following its
review of application for a special use permit as defined in Section
165.21(4).
   3.   Bulk Requirements.  Height regulations, lot area, frontage, and yard
requirements are specified in Section
165.09(21).
   4.   Sign Regulations.  Sign regulations shall be as specified in Section
165.18.
   5.   Use Limitations.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code of
Ordinances, this section shall govern location, placement and use of mobile
homes within the City.  Mobile homes used as dwelling or for any other use may
be located only within an R-3 Mobile Home District.  Mobile homes unoccupied
and held for commercial sale may be placed for temporary storage on lots within
A-1 or C-1 Districts.  Any other location or use of mobile homes within the
City is forbidden.  Mobile homes validly placed or located within other
districts prior to enactment of the Zoning Ordinance may continue as a
nonconforming use subject to Section
165.19 of this chapter.
   6.   Temporary Structures.  Temporary structures made of nondurable
materials are prohibited in areas zoned R-3.  Nondurable materials include, but
are not limited to, canvas, tarp, and light weight plastic.
165.15   C COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
The C Commercial District is intended and designed for business, professions,
and occupations which are located in the Commercial District and require off-
street parking areas and loading spaces.
   1.   Accessory Buildings, Structures and Uses.
      A.   Permit Required.  A permit and permanent foundation is required for
all detached accessory building or buildings.
      B.   Height of Accessory Building.  No detached accessory building or
structure shall exceed 18 feet in height, and the side walls shall not exceed
12 feet in height.
      C.   Location on Lot.  No accessory building or structure shall be
erected in any front yard.  Accessory buildings or structures shall be no
closer than three feet from any main buildings.
   2.   Principal Uses Permitted.  Property and buildings in a C Commercial
District shall be used only for the following purposes:
      A.   The following businesses and uses:
         Antique shops.
         Apartments above first story level of a store or shop, with off-
street/on-site parking.
         Apparel shops.
         Art shops.
         Automobile accessory and parts stores.
         Bakeries, bakery outlets or catering service, retail sales only.
         Banks, savings and loan associations, and similar financial
institutions.
         Barbershops and beauty parlors.
         Bicycle shops, sales and repair.
         Bowling alleys.
         Business offices, professional offices and studios.
         Business and vocational schools.
         Camera stores.
         Carpenter and cabinet making shops.
         Car wash with truck bay.
         Child care centers.
         Churches and temples.
         Clothes cleaning and laundry pick-up stations.
         Clothing stores.
         Collection office of public utility.
         Confectionery stores, including ice cream or snack bars.
         Dairy stores, retail only.
         Dance studio.
         Delicatessens.
         Dental and medical clinics.
         Department stores.
         Drug stores.
         Dry goods stores.
         Florist shops.
         Furniture stores.
         Gift shops.
         Grocery stores, frozen food lockers, including supermarkets.
         Hardware stores.
         Hobby shops.
         Household appliances, sale and repair.
         Jewelry stores and watch repair shops.
         Libraries.
         Launderettes, coin-operated dry cleaning establishments, and dry-
cleaning or pressing establishments using only non-flammable solvents.
         Lawn mower repair shops.
         Locker plant for storage and retail sales only.
         Leather goods store.
         Medical and dental clinics.
         Music stores and music studios.
         Office supply shops.
         Paint and wallpaper stores.
         Personal service and repair shops.
         Pet shops.
         Photographic studios, printing and developing establishments.
         Plumbing and heating shops.
         Post offices.
         Printing and lithographing shops.
         Publishing and engraving establishments.
         Radio and television sales and repair shops.
         Restaurants and taverns.
         Shoe and hat repair shops.
         Sporting goods stores.
         Tailor and dressmaking shops.
         TV and appliance repair and sales.
         Theatres.
         Toy stores.
         Upholstering shops.
         Used car lots.
         Variety stores.
         Video/movie film and equipment rental and sales.
      B.   Accessory uses and buildings which are customarily incidental to the
above stated uses.
   3.   Special Exceptions.  The following special exceptions may be applied
for pursuant to Section
165.21(4).  The Board of Adjustment may approve, deny, or table an application
in accordance with provisions contained therein:
      A.   Agricultural feed and seed sales, but excluding grinding, mixing,
and bleeding.
      B.   Animal hospitals and veterinary clinics.
      C.   Apartments on first and second story level with off-street/on-site
parking.
      D.   Automobiles, trailer, motorcycle, boat and farm implement
establishments for display, hire, rental, and sales (including sales lots). 
This paragraph shall not be construed to include automobile, tractor or
machinery wrecking and rebuilding and used parts yards.
      E.   Automobile, trailer, motorcycle, boat and farm implement service/
repair establishments.
      F.   Convenience stores with fuel sales.
      G.   Book stores.
      H.   Unattended fuel sales sites.
      I.   Drive-in restaurants.
      J.   Funeral homes and mortuaries.
      K.   Liquor stores.
      L.   Lumber yards.
      M.   Private clubs and lodges.
      N.   Public buildings, parks, playgrounds and community buildings.
      O.   Public utilities and offices.
      P.   Rental storage buildings.
      Q.   Roadside stands for the sale of fresh fruits, vegetables, nursery
stock and plant food.
      R.   Service stations.
      S.   Sheet metal shops.
      T.   Wholesale display and sales rooms and offices.
      U.   Welding and machine shops.
   4.   Bulk Requirements.  Height regulations, lot area, frontage, and yard
requirements are specified in Section
165.09(21).
   5.   Sign Regulations.  Sign regulations shall be as specified in Section
165.18.
165.16   ML LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
The ML Light Industrial District is intended primarily for the conduct of
manufacturing, assembling, and fabrication.  It is designed to provide an
environment suitable for industrial activities that do not create appreciable
nuisances or hazards.  The uses permitted in this district make it most
desirable that they be separated from residential uses.
   1.   Principal Uses Permitted.  Property and buildings in an ML Light
Industrial District shall be used only for the following purposes:
      A.   Bottling works.
      B.   Cleaning and dyeing plants.
      C.   Creamery and/or dairy processing plant.
      D.   Truck or bus garage and repair shop.
      E.   Farm implement sales, service, repair and assembly.
      F.   Freight terminal and grain elevator.
      G.   Building material sales and storage.
      H.   Wholesaling and warehousing.
      I.   Public utilities.
      J.   Automobile body repair and paint shop.
      K.   Clothing manufacture.
      L.   Welding shop.
      M.   Light manufacturing and assembly plants.
      N.   Consignment and auction sales operations having no more than four
public sales per month, but excluding the sale of livestock, fish, fowl, or
animals of any kind.
      O.   Brick and clay products and central mixing and proportioning plant.
      P.   Concrete products and central mixing and proportioning plant.
      Q.   Flour, feed and grain milling and storage.
      R.   Tool and die shops, and machine shops.
      S.   Structural iron and steel fabrication.
      T.   Machinery manufacture.
      U.   Mini-steel plants.
      V.   PVC products manufacturing.
      W.   Cleaning and dyeing plants.
      X.   Accessory uses and buildings which are customarily incidental to the
above stated permitted uses and including temporary buildings used in
conjunction with construction work, provided such buildings are removed
promptly upon completion of the construction work.
   2.   Special Exceptions.  The following special exceptions may be applied
for pursuant to Section
165.21(4).  The Board of Adjustment may approve, deny or table an application
in accordance with provisions contained therein:
      A.   Contractor’s shop and storage yard enclosed by presentable solid
fence eight feet high.
      B.   Animal pound or kennel.
      C.   Carnivals, circuses, fairs, road shows.
      D.   Radio and television broadcasting tower or station.
      E.   Accessory uses and buildings which are customarily incidental to the
above stated permitted uses and including temporary buildings used in
conjunction with construction work, provided such buildings are removed
promptly upon completion of the construction work.
   3.   Bulk Requirements.  Height regulations, lot area, frontage, and yard
requirements are specified in Section
165.09(21).
   4.   Sign Regulations.  Sign regulations shall be as specified in Section
165.18.
165.17   HM HEAVY MANUFACTURING DISTRICT.
The HM Heavy Manufacturing District is intended primarily for the conduct of
activities and environment suitable heavy industrial activities that so not
create appreciable nuisances or hazards.  The uses permitted in this district
make it the most desirable that they be separated from residential uses. 
   1.   Principal Uses Permitted.  Property and buildings in an HM
Manufacturing District shall be used only for the following purposes:
      A.   Any use permitted in the ML Light Industrial District.
      B.   The following uses:
         Acids and derivatives
         Acetylene
         Ammonia
         Carbide
         Caustic soda
         Cellulose and cellulose storage
         Chlorine
         Coke oven products (including fuel gas) and coke oven products storage
         Creosote
         Distillation, manufacture, or refining of coal, tar, asphalt, wood and
bones
         Explosives (including ammunition and fireworks) and explosive storage
         Fertilizer (organic)
         Fish oils and meal
         Glue, gelatin (animal)
         Hydrogen and oxygen
         Lamp black, carbon black, and bone black
         Nitrating of cotton or other materials
         Petroleum, gasoline, and lubricating oil refining and wholesale
storage
         Plastic materials and synthetic resins
         Potash
         Pyroxyline
         Rendering and storage of dead animals, offal, garbage, or waste
products
         Wells, gas and oil
         Clay, stone and glass products
         Brick, firebrick, refractories and clay products (coal fired)
         Cement, lime, gypsum. or plaster of Paris
         Minerals and earths: quarrying, extracting grinding, crushing and
processing
         Fat rendering
         Fish curing, packing and storage
         Slaughtering of animals
         Starch manufacture
         Aluminum powder and paint manufacture
         Blast furnace, cupolas
         Blooming mill
         Metal and metal ores, reduction, refining, smelting, and alloying
         Scrap metal reduction or smelting
         Steel works and rolling mill (ferrous)
         Match manufacturing
         Wood pulp and fiber, reaction and processing
         Hair, hides, and raw fur, curing, tanning, dressing, dyeing and
storage
         Stockyards
   2.   Special Exceptions.  The following special exceptions may be applied
for pursuant to Section
165.21(4).  The Board of Adjustment may approve, deny or table an application
in accordance with provisions contained therein:
      A.   Contractor’s shop and storage yard enclosed by presentable fence
eight feet high.
      B.   Animal pound or kennel.
      C.   Carnivals, circuses, fairs, road shows.
      D.   Radio and television broadcasting tower or station.
      E.   Accessory uses and buildings which are customarily incidental to the
above stated permitted uses and including temporary buildings used in
conjunction with construction work, provided such buildings are removed
promptly upon completion of the construction work.
   3.   Bulk Requirements.  Height regulations, lot area, frontage, and yard
requirements are specified in Section
165.09(21).
   4.   Sign Regulations.  Sign regulations shall be as specified in Section
165.18.
165.18   SIGNS.
All signs and billboards shall be maintained in a neat and presentable
condition and in the event their use will cease, they shall be removed within
30 days and the surrounding area restored to a condition free from refuse and
debris. 
   1.   Sign Placement Permit.  All temporary, illuminating, flashing, portable
signs must secure a sign placement permit from the City Clerk, allowable only
in commercial and industrial/manufacturing districts and valid for a maximum
time limit of 72 hours.  Such permit will not be renewed to the same person or
business for 14 days.  The 14-day period is calculated from the first day as
written on the sign placement permit.
   2.   Agricultural Districts.  In an Agricultural District the following
signs are permitted:
      A.   Name plates not to exceed a three square foot area.
      B.   Church or public bulletin boards.
      C.   Temporary signs advertising the lease or sale of the premises, not
to exceed 32 square feet in area.
      D.   Bulletin boards and signs pertaining to the lease, hire or sale of a
building or premises, or signs pertaining to any material that is grown or
treated within the district; provided, however, such signs shall be located
upon or immediately adjacent to the building or in the area in which such
materials are treated, processed or stored.
   3.   Residential Districts.  In a Residential District the following signs
are permitted:
      A.   Name plates not to exceed three square feet.
      B.   Church or public bulletin boards.
      C.   Temporary sign advertising the lease or sale of the premises not to
exceed 12 square feet in area.
      D.   Facilities, other than single-family dwellings, normally required to
provide an attractive R-l residential area may illuminate signs, bulletin
boards and name plates only with indirect, not-intermittent lights that do not
exceed 60 watts.
      E.   Signs for home occupations, and signs attached to a residence not
exceeding six square feet in area.
   4.   Commercial Districts.  The following signs are permitted in all
Commercial Districts:
      A.   Signs permitted in the residential districts.
      B.   Any exterior sign shall pertain only to a use conducted within the
building and be integral or attached thereto.  No sign may project over any
street line (back of curb) or extend more than six feet over any building line
whether fixed to the building or any other structure.  In no case shall any
sign project more than four feet above the roof line, and the total area of all
signs pertaining to the business conducted in a building shall not exceed two
square feet in area for every lineal foot occupied by the front of the building
displaying such sign, but not to exceed lot frontage.  Where the lot adjoins an
R District, the exterior sign shall be attached flat against the building and
shall not face the side of the adjacent lot located in the R District, however,
this does not apply to the side of the building which is opposite that side
adjoining the R District.
      C.   One post sign or business identification sign; provided, however,
said post sign shall not have a surface area of greater than 40 square feet on
any one side thereof and no more than two sides of a post sign shall be used
for advertising purposes.  The bottom of said post sign or surface area thereof
shall not be less than 12 feet above the sidewalk or above the surface of the
ground upon which it is erected, and the total vertical dimension of 12 feet or
horizontal dimension of said sign shall not be greater that seven feet.  Total
maximum height of said sign shall not be over 24 feet.  The term “post sign” as
herein defined shall not be deemed to include any sign advertising the trade
name, merchandise or service of any person, firm, or corporation who pays a
consideration for the privilege of placing, maintaining, or using any portion
of said sign to the owner or occupant of the premises upon which said sign is
erected or placed.  Said post sign shall not extend over street right-of-way
lines nor otherwise obstruct or impair the safety of pedestrians or motorists.
   5.   Manufacturing Districts.  All signs allowed within the Commercial
District are allowed with the Light and Heavy Manufacturing Districts.
   6.   Outdoor Advertising Signs.  In all districts where permitted, signs
shall be set back from the proposed right-of-way line of any State or federal
highway, any major City thoroughfare so designated by the Official Major Street
Plan, and from the right-of-way line of any other street or highway.  Signs
erected in a manner as to obstruct free and clear vision of streets, alleys or
driveways or erected, designed or positioned to interfere with, obstruct, or be
confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal or device which may mislead
or confuse traffic shall not be permitted in all zoning districts.  No sign
shall be permitted which faces the front or side lot line of any lot in any R
Residential District used for residential purposes within 100 feet of such lot
lines, or which faces any public parkway, public square or entrance to any
public park, public parochial school, church, cemetery or similar institution,
within 300 feet thereof, unless said sign is a single-faced wall (fascia) sign
which is parallel to its supporting wall and not extending more than 12 inches
from the wall.
Figure 5: Sign Types
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7660975a45d3cb4216abd30cef0078edfb52ff3e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1457.png]
165.19   NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES OF LAND.
   1.   Nonconforming Buildings and Structures.
      A.   General.  A nonconforming building or structure existing at the time
of adoption of the Zoning Ordinance may be continued, maintained, and repaired,
except as otherwise provided in this section. Nothing in this chapter shall
prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition any part of any
building or structure declared unsafe.
      B.   Alteration or Enlargement of Building and Structure.  A
nonconforming building or structure shall not be added to or enlarged in any
manner unless said building or structure including additions and enlargements,
is made to conform to all the regulations of the district in which it is
located; provided, however, if a building or structure is conforming as to its
use, but nonconforming as to yards or height or off-street parking space, said
building or structure may be enlarged or added to provided that the enlargement
or addition complies with the yard and height and off-street parking
requirements of the district in which said building or structure is located. 
No nonconforming building or structure shall be moved in whole or in part to
another location on the lot unless every portion of said building or structure
is made to conform to all of the regulations of the district in which it is
located.
      C.   Building Vacancy.  A building or structure or portion thereof, which
is nonconforming as to use, which is or hereafter becomes vacant and remains
unoccupied for a continuous period of one year shall not thereafter be occupied
except by a use which conforms to the use regulations of the district in which
it is located.
      D.   Destruction of Nonconforming Building or Structure.  Any
nonconforming building or structure which has been or may be damaged by fire,
flood, explosions, earthquake, war, riot, or any other act of God, may be
reconstructed and used as before if it can be done within 12 months of such
calamity, unless damaged more than 50 percent of its fair market value, as
determined by the Board of Adjustment, at the time of the damage, in which case
reconstruction shall be in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      E.   Change of Uses.  A nonconforming use of a conforming building or
structure may be expanded or extended into any other portion of the structure
provided the structure was manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the
time of adoption or amendment of the Zoning Ordinance, but no such use shall be
extended to occupy any land outside such building.  If such a nonconforming
use, or a portion thereof, is discontinued or changed to a conforming use, any
future use of such building, structure or portion thereof shall be in
conformity with the regulations of the district in which such building or
structure is located.  A vacant or partially vacant conforming building or
structure may be occupied by a use for which the building or structure was
designed or intended if occupied within a period of one year after the
effective date of the Zoning Ordinance, but otherwise it shall be used in
conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located.  The
use of a nonconforming building or structure may be changed to a use of the
same or a more restricted district classification; but where the use of
nonconforming building or structure is changed to a use of a more restricted
district classification it thereafter shall not be changed to a use of a less
restricted district classification; provided, however, a building or structure
that is nonconforming at the time of adoption of the Zoning Ordinance is not in
violation.  For the purpose of this subsection only, the R-1 District shall be
considered the most restrictive and the HM District the least restrictive
district.
      F.   Swimming Pool Fences.  The lawful use of a swimming pool existing at
the effective date of the Zoning Ordinance may be continued, provided that 12
months after the effective date of the Ordinance all nonconforming pools shall
conform to Section
165.09(15).
   2.   Nonconforming Uses of Land.  A nonconforming use of land, where the
aggregate value of all permanent buildings or structures is less than $500.00,
existing at the time of adoption of the Zoning Ordinance, may be continued
three years there from provided that:
      A.   Said nonconforming use shall not be extended or expanded, nor shall
it occupy more area than was in use on the effective date of the Zoning
Ordinance.
      B.   If said nonconforming use or any portion thereof is discontinued for
a period of six months, or changed, any future use of such land, or change in
use, shall be in conformity with the provisions of the district in which said
land is located.
165.20   ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS, EXCEPTIONS, MODIFICATIONS AND
INTERPRETATIONS.
   1.   General.  The requirements and regulations specified elsewhere in this
chapter shall be subject to additional requirements, exceptions, modifications,
and interpretations contained in this section.
   2.   Height and Size Limits.  Height limitations stipulated elsewhere in
this chapter shall not apply in the following situations:
      A.   To church spires, belfries, cupolas and domes, monuments, water
towers, fire and hose towers, masts, and aerials; to parapet walls extending
not more than four feet above the limiting height of the building.  However, if
in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator, such structure would adversely
affect adjoining or adjacent properties, such greater height shall not be
authorized except by the Board of Adjustment.
      B.   To bulkheads, conveyors, derricks, elevator penthouses, water tanks,
monitors and scenery lofts; to monuments, fire towers, hose towers, cooling
towers, grain elevators, gas holders or other structures, where the
manufacturing process requires a greater height than specified, such may be
authorized by the Board of Adjustment.
   3.   Front Yard Exceptions and Modifications.
      A.   Front yard requirements do not apply to bay windows or balconies
that do not project more than two feet into the front yard.
      B.   In any district where the average depth of two or more existing
front yards on lots within 200 feet of the lot in question and within the same
block front is less or greater than the least front yard depth prescribed,
front yards may be varied.  The depth of the front yard on such lot shall not
be less than the average depth of said existing front yards or the average
depth of the two lots immediately adjoining or, in the case of a comer lot, the
depth of the front yard on the lot immediately adjoining; provided, however,
the depth of the front yard on a lot in any R District shall be at least 10
feet.
      C.   For the purpose of determining lot width, that portion of a flag lot
used for ingress and egress shall not be included as a part of the required
front yard.
   4.   Side Yard Exceptions and Modifications.
      A.   Along any district boundary line, any abutting side yard on a lot in
the less restricted district shall have a least width equal to that required in
the more restricted district.  Where a building is proposed for a lot in the M
District, and a line of such lot abuts an R District, the side yard in the M
District shall be increased by three feet for each foot that the proposed
building will exceed the height limit of the said R District.
      B.   On a corner lot the least width of a side yard along the side street
lot line shall be equal to the required front yard along the side street.  No
part of any accessory building shall be nearer a side street lot line than the
least depth on any front yard required along such side street.
      C.   The following projections or structures may be permitted in side
yards:
         (1)   Accessory buildings or structures subject to the provisions
contained elsewhere in this chapter.
         (2)   Fences or walls not over six feet above the average natural
grade except as noted in Section
165.09(15).
         (3)   Fire escapes, three feet from side lot line.  Bays and balconies
not more than three feet from the building, provided these projections are
entirely within planes drawn from either main corner of the side wall.  The sum
of the lengths of such projection shall not exceed one-third of the length of
the wall of the main building.
         (4)   Chimneys, flues, belt courses, leaders, sills, pilasters, and
lintels, ornamental features, cornices, gutters and the like into or over a
required side yard not more than one and one-half feet.
         (5)   Terraces, steps, uncovered porches, stoops or similar features,
not higher than the elevation of the ground story of the building and distant
three feet from the side lot line.
Figure 6: Corner and Reverse Corner Side Yards, R-1 District
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7660975a45d3cb4216abd30cef0078edfb52ff3e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1459.png]
   5.   Rear Yard Exceptions and Modifications.  The following projections or
structures may be permitted in rear yards:
      A.   Accessory buildings or structures subject to the provisions
contained elsewhere in this chapter.
      B.   Fences or walls, not over six feet above the average natural grade.
      C.   Fire escapes, not more than six feet, and bays and balconies, not
more than three feet.
      D.   Chimneys, flues, belt courses, leaders, sills, pilasters, lintels,
ornamental features, cornices, eaves, and the like, into or over a required
rear yard not more than one and one-half feet.
      E.   Terraces, steps, uncovered porches, stoops, or similar features not
more than 10 feet into a required rear yard, or closer than six feet of an
alley or within 10 feet of a rear lot line.
      F.   Swimming pools.
165.21   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   1.   Organization.  The administration of this chapter is vested in the
following four offices of the government of the City:  City Council, Planning
and Zoning Commission, Board of Adjustment, and Zoning Administrator.
   2.   Basis of Regulations.  Regulations are made in accordance with the
Comprehensive Plan and designed to preserve the availability of agricultural
land; to consider the protection of soil from wind and water erosion; to
encourage efficient urban development patterns; to lessen congestion in the
street; to secure safety from fire, flood, panic, and other dangers; to promote
health and the general welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent
the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; to
promote the conservation of energy resources; to promote reasonable access to
solar energy; and to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water
sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements.
   3.   Mayor and City Council.  The Mayor and City Council shall discharge the
following duties under this chapter:
      A.   Appoint a Zoning Administrator whose responsibilities it will be to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
      B.   Appoint members of the Board of Adjustment as provided for in this
chapter.
      C.   Appoint members to the Planning and Zoning Commission as provided
for in this chapter.
      D.   Receive and decide upon all recommendations concerning amendments,
supplements, and changes presented by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      E.   Receive from the Commission all recommendations on the effectiveness
of this chapter.
      F.   Decide all matters upon which it is required to pass under this
chapter.
   4.   Board of Adjustment.
      A.   Creation.  The Board of Adjustment, as established under applicable
provisions of the Iowa State Statutes, is the Board of Adjustment referred to
in this chapter.
      B.   Appointment; Terms; Removal.  The Board shall consist of five
members to be appointed by the Mayor, subject to City Council approval by
majority vote for overlapping terms of five years.  A majority of the members
of the Board of Adjustment shall be persons representing the public at large
and shall not be involved in the business of purchasing or selling real
estate.  Members of the Board of Adjustment may be removed from office by the
City Council for cause upon written charges and after public hearing. 
Vacancies shall be filled by the City Council for the unexpired term of the
member affected.
      C.   Powers and Duties.  The Board of Adjustment is hereby vested with
the following powers and duties:
         (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error
in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Zoning
Administrator in the enforcement of this chapter.
         (2)   To hear and pass on all applications for special exceptions in
the manner prescribed in this chapter.
         (3)   To hear and pass on all applications for variances from the
terms provided in the chapter in the manner prescribed and subject to the
standards herein.
      D.   Meetings and Rules.  The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules
necessary to the conduct of its affairs, and in keeping with the provisions of
this section.  Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at
such other times as the Board may determine.  The Chairperson, or in his/her
absence, the acting chairperson, may administer oaths and compel attendance of
witnesses.  All meetings shall be open to the public.
         (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to
vote indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be public record and be immediately filed
in the office of the Zoning Administrator.
         (2)   The concurring vote of three members of the Board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the
Zoning Administrator, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon
which it is required to pass under this chapter, or to effect any variation in
application of this chapter.
      E.   Finality of Decisions of the Board of Adjustment.  All decisions and
findings of the Board of Adjustment on appeals applications for a variance, or
application for a special exception, after a hearing, shall, in all instances,
be final administrative decisions and shall be subject to judicial review as by
law may be provided.
   5.   Planning and Zoning Commission.  The Planning and Zoning Commission is
established and has duties as prescribed in
Chapter 22 of this Code of Ordinances.
   6.   Zoning Administrator.
      A.   Designation of Zoning Administrator.  The Zoning Administrator will
be the City Clerk, unless another person is appointed by the Mayor subject to
City Council approval by majority vote.
      B.   Powers and Duties of the Zoning Administrator.  The Zoning
Administrator shall enforce this chapter and in addition thereto and in
furtherance of said authority, shall:
         (1)   Issue all zoning permits upon approval of the Planning and
Zoning Commission and collect any fees.
         (2)   Process all applications for variances, special exceptions, and
rezoning for referral to the Board of Adjustment.
         (3)   Respond to complaints of alleged violations to this chapter.
         (4)   Provide and maintain a public information service relative to
all matters arising out of this chapter.
         (5)   Provide proper forms to the public for the zoning process.
         (6)   Review site plans for conformance with this chapter.
         (7)   Carry out the administrative duties for both the Planning and
Zoning Commission and the Board of Adjustment.
         (8)   Act as the Secretary to the Planning and Zoning Commission and
the Board of Adjustment.
         (9)   Insure that public notices of hearings are properly advertised
in the local newspapers, and notice to the parties of interest is provided.
   7.   Secretary of the Planning and Zoning Commission and Board of
Adjustment.  The Secretary of the Planning and Zoning Commission and the
Secretary of the Board of Adjustment shall be the Zoning Administrator.
      A.   The Secretary of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall attend all
meetings of the Commission, take full and accurate minutes of the proceedings,
prepare all necessary reports and documents for and on behalf of the
Commission, and perform such duties and functions as may be necessary for the
orderly recording of the business of the Commission.
      B.   The Secretary of the Board of Adjustment shall attend all meetings
of the Board, take full and necessary reports and documents for and on behalf
of the Board, and perform such other duties and functions as may be necessary
for the orderly recording of the business of the Board.
   8.   Variances.  The Board of Adjustment, after a public hearing, may
determine and vary the regulations of this chapter in harmony with their
general purpose and intent, only in the specific instances hereinafter set
forth, where the Board of Adjustment makes written findings of fact in
accordance with the standards hereinafter prescribed and further, finds that
there are no practical difficulties or particular hardships in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of the regulations of this chapter.
      A.   Application for Variance.  An application for a variance shall be
filed in writing with the Zoning Administrator.  Said application shall contain
such information as the Board of Adjustment may, by rules, require.
      B.   Standards for Variance.  The Board of Adjustment shall not vary the
regulations of this chapter, as authorized in this section, unless there is
evidence presented to it in each specific case that:
         (1)   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to
the land, structure, or building involved and which are not applicable to other
lands, structures, or buildings in the same district.
         (2)   Literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this chapter.
         (3)   Special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant.
         (4)   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant
any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other lands,
structures, or buildings in the same district.
      C.   Further Requirements:
         (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall make a finding, that the reasons
set forth in the application justify the granting of the variance, and that the
variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the reasonable use of
the land, building, or structure.
         (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the
granting of the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of this chapter, and will not be injurious to the neighborhood, or otherwise
detrimental to the public welfare.
         (3)   In granting any variance, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this chapter. 
Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter.
         (4)   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Adjustment grant a
variance to allow for use not permissible under the terms of this chapter in
the district involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the
terms of this chapter in the district.
         (5)   If a variance is sought to permit building within six feet or
less of a property line, the request must be accompanied by a certified survey.
   9.   Appeals.  Any person or persons, or any board, taxpayer, department,
board or bureau of the City aggrieved by any decision of the Board of
Adjustment may seek review by a court of record of such decision, in the manner
provided by the laws of the State and particularly by the Code of Iowa.
   10.   Use Exceptions and Other Powers of the Board of Adjustment.
      A.   Purpose  The development and administration of this chapter is based
upon the division of the City into Zoning Districts, within which districts the
use of land and buildings and the bulk and location of buildings and structures
in relation to the land are substantially uniform.  It is recognized, however,
that there are certain uses which, because of their unique characteristics,
cannot be properly classified in any particular district or districts, without
consideration in each case, of the impact of those uses upon neighboring land
and of the public need for the particular use at the particular locations. 
Such use exceptions fall into two categories:
         (1)   Uses publicly operated or traditionally affected with a public
interest; and
         (2)   Uses entirely private in character, but of such an unusual
nature that their operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to
their impact upon neighboring property or public facilities.
      B.   Initiation of Use Exception.  Any person having a freehold interest
in land, a possessory interest entitled to exclusive possession, or a
contractual interest which may become a freehold interest of an exclusive
possessory interest, either of which is specifically enforceable, may file an
application to use such land for one or more of the special exceptions provided
for in this chapter in the zoning district in which the land is located.
      C.   Application for Special Exception.  An application for a special
exception shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator on a form as the Zoning
Administrator shall prescribe.  The application shall be accompanied by such
plans and/or date prescribed by the Board of Adjustment and shall include a
statement indicating the section of this chapter under which the special
exception is sought and stating the grounds on which it is requested.
      D.   Hearing on Application.  Upon receipt in proper form of the
application and statement referred to in Section
165.21(4), the Board of Adjustment shall hold at least one public hearing on
the proposed special exception.  Notice of time and place of such hearing shall
be published not less than seven days or more than 20 days in advance of the
public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the City.  Before an
appeal is filed with the Board of Adjustment, the appellant shall pay to the
City the non-refundable sum of $100.00 to cover the publishing and
administration costs of said appeal.
      E.   Authorization.  For each application for a special exception the
Zoning Administrator shall prepare and file with the Board of Adjustment
finding and recommendations, including the recommended stipulations of
additional conditions and guarantees that are deemed necessary for the
protection of the public interest.
      F.   Standards.  No special exception shall be granted by the Board of
Adjustment unless such Board shall find that:
         (1)   The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the special
exception will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety,
morals, comfort, or general welfare.
         (2)   The special exception will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property already permitted, or substantially diminish and
impair property values within the neighborhood.
         (3)   The establishment of special exceptions will not impede the
normal and orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for
uses permitted in the district.
         (4)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and/or necessary
facilities have been or are being provided.
         (5)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress
and egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets.
         (6)   The special exception shall, in all other respects, conform to
the applicable regulations of the district in which it is located, except as
such regulations may, in each instance, be modified by the Board of Adjustment.
         (7)   Conditions and Guarantees.  Prior to the granting of any special
use, the Board of Adjustment shall stipulate such conditions and restrictions
upon the establishment, location, construction, maintenance, and operation of
the special exception as is deemed necessary for the protection of the public
interest and to secure compliance with the standards and requirements specified
in this section and subsection 9 above.  In all cases in which special
exceptions are granted, the Board of Adjustment shall require such evidence and
guarantees as it may deem necessary as proof that the conditions stipulated in
connection therewith are being and will be compiled with.
         (8)   Denial of Special Exception.  No application for a special
exception that has been denied wholly or in part by the Board of Adjustment
shall be resubmitted for a period of one year from the date of denial, except
on the grounds of new evidence or proof of change of conditions found to be
valid by the Board of Adjustment.
         (9)   Revocation of a Special Exception.  In any case where special
exception has not been established within one year after the date of granting
thereof, then, without further action by the Board of Adjustment the use on
review or authorization shall be null and void.
         (10)   Other Powers of the Board of Adjustment.  The Board of
Adjustment is hereby vested with the following additional authority and
jurisdiction:
            a.   Interpretation of Zoning Map.  Where the application of the
rules for interpretation of district boundaries contained in Section
165.07 leaves a reasonable doubt to the boundary between two Zoning Districts,
the Board of Adjustment after notice to the owners of the property and after
public hearing, shall interpret the Map in such a way as to carry out the
intent and purposes of this chapter.
            b.   Temporary Uses and Permit.  The Board of Adjustment may issue
a permit for the temporary use of a building or premises in any district for a
purpose or use that does not conform to the regulations prescribed by this
chapter, provided that such use is of a true temporary nature and does not
involve the erection of substantial buildings.  Such permit shall be granted in
the form of a temporary and revocable permit for not more than a 12-month
period, subject to such conditions as will safeguard the public health, safety,
convenience, and general welfare.
   11.   Amendment.
      A.   Procedure.  The regulations, restrictions, and boundaries may from
time to time, be amended, supplemented, changed, modified, or repealed, but no
such amendments shall be made without public hearing before the Council and
after a report has been made upon the amendment by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.  However, the regulation, restriction, or boundary shall not become
effective until after a public hearing at which parties in interest and
citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard.  The notice of the time and
place of the hearing shall be published not less than seven days or more than
20 days in advance of the public hearing in a newspaper of general local
circulation, but in no case shall the public hearing be held earlier than the
next regularly scheduled City Council meeting following the published notice.
      B.   Amendment may be passed by the favorable vote of a simple majority
of all members of the City Council.  However, such amendment must pass by a
three-fourths favorable vote of all members of the City Council, if any of the
following occurs:
         (1)   In case the Planning and Zoning Commission has not approved the
change.
         (2)   A protest is filed with the City Council against such change,
signed by the owners of at least 20 percent of the area to be rezoned.
         (3)   A protest is filed with the City Council against the change,
signed by the owners at least 20 percent of all lots abutting, adjoining or
lying directly across any streets from the perimeter of the area to be rezoned
(such immediately adjacent lots extending the depth of one lot or a maximum of
200 feet (whichever is less).
      C.   As part of an ordinance changing land from one zoning district to
another zoning district or an ordinance approving a site development plan, the
City Council may impose conditions on a property owner which are in addition to
existing regulations if the additional conditions have been agreed to in
writing by the property owners before the public hearing required under this
section or any adjournment of that hearing.  The conditions must be reasonable
and imposed to satisfy public needs which are directly caused by the requested
change in zoning district.
   12.   Rezoning Applications.  An application for rezoning shall contain the
following items:
      A.   The legal description and local address of the property.
      B.   The present zoning classification and the zoning classification
requested for the property.
      C.   The existing use and proposed use of the property.
      D.   The names and addresses of the owners of all property within 200
feet of the property for which the change is requested.
      E.   A statement of the reasons why the applicant feels the present
zoning classification is no longer valid.
      F.   A plat showing the locations, dimensions, and use of the applicant’s
property and all property within 200 feet thereof, including streets, alleys,
railroads, and other physical features.
   13.   Fees.  Before any action is taken upon an application as provided in
this section, the applicant shall pay the Zoning Administrator the sum of
$100.00 to cover the approximate cost of the procedure and the applicant shall
forthwith pay over in this amount to the credit of the general revenue fund of
the City.  The failure to approve the request will not be construed as any
reason for refunding the fee to the applicant.
165.22   BUILDING CONSTRUCTION; CERTIFICATES.
   1.   Building Construction.  No buildings shall hereafter be erected,
reconstructed, or structurally altered nor shall any work be started upon
buildings until a building permit for the work has been issued by the Zoning
Administrator which permit shall state that the proposed building complies with
all provisions of this chapter.
   2.   Building Permit.  Any person or entity shall file a building permit
prior to construction or remodeling with the City Clerk on a form approved by
the City Council.
   3.   Construction.  No construction shall be commenced without the permit
being on file with the City Clerk and approved by the City Council at a
scheduled Council meeting.  And the following shall apply to all structures:
      A.   No part of any structure shall extend to within six feet of
applicant’s property line, excluding overhang, which is not to exceed 30
inches.
      B.   The area of structures shall be no larger than 50 percent of the
property area.
   4.   Fees.   The following fees shall be paid prior to the issuance of a
building permit:
      A.   A fee in the amount of $10.00 for building costs below $2,000.00.
      B.   A fee in the amount of $50.00 for remodeling costs over $2,000.00.
      C.   A fee of $250.00 for new residential construction.
      D.    A fee of $250.00 for new commercial construction.
Building permits are nonrefundable and will expire in six months if
construction has not started within that time.
   5.   Penalty.  Any person or entity not obtaining a building permit prior to
construction shall be fined $200.00.
165.23   VIOLATIONS AND LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS.
   1.   Notice to Violators.  If the Zoning Administrator finds that any
provision of this chapter is being violated, the administrator shall notify in
writing the person responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of
the violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it.  The
Administrator shall order discontinuance of illegal buildings or structures or
of additions, alterations, or structural changes thereto; discontinuance of any
illegal work being done; or shall take any other action authorized by this
chapter to insure compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions.
   2.   Responsibility.  The owners, or tenant of any building structure, land
or part thereof and any architect, builder, contractor, agent, or other person
who commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains a violation may each be
charged with a separate offense and upon conviction suffer the penalties
provided in this Code of Ordinances or by State law.
   3.   City Remedies.  If any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building,
structure, or land is used in violation of this chapter, the City may, in
addition to other remedies, institute injunction, mandamus, or other
appropriate lawful action necessary to prevent, correct, or abate such
violation.
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances have been adopted amending the Official Zoning Map
described in Section
165.06 of this chapter and have not been included as a part of this Code of
Ordinances but have been specifically saved from repeal and are in full
force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED            ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
228           January 4, 2016
230           April 18, 2016
245           September 10, 2019
 
 
