CODE OF ORDINANCES
OF THE
CITY OF MAQUOKETA, IOWA
Adopted February 19, 2024, by Ordinance_No.1214
Prepared By: Local Government Professional Services, Inc.
DBA Iowa Codification
P. O. Box 244
114 E 5th Street
Storm Lake, Iowa 50588
(641) 355-4072
www.sc-ic.com
SUPPLEMENT RECORD
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date Subject
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date     Subject
Feb-24    Ch. 115                 1213     11-20-23 Electric Franchise
                                  1214     2-19-24  Adopting Ordinance
Mar-24    165.05                  1215     3-4-24   Zoning Map Change
          65.02(20)(JJJ)          1216     3-4-24   Stop Sign
May-24    75.05(1)                1217     4-15-24  ATVs
          70.03                   1218     4-15-24  Parking Violations:
                                                    Alternate
          65.02(3)(A-B)           1219     4-15-24  Stop Signs
          Ch. 78                  1220     4-15-24  Golf Carts
          92.04(3)                1221     5-6-24   Water Service Charges
Sep-24    165.05                  1222     9-3-24   Zoning Map Change
          165.05                  1223     9-3-24   Zoning Map Change
          165.05                  1224     9-3-24   Zoning Map Change
          Ch. 78                  1225     9-16-24  Golf Cart Operation
          92.04(4)                1226     9-3-24   Water Service Billing
Oct-24    Ch. 137                 1227     10-7-24  Vacating Right-of-Way
          5.13(3)                 1228     10-7-24  Gender Balance Boards and
                                                    Commissions
          60.02;                  1229     10-7-24  Pedestrians' Right-of-Way
          65.08
          16.03                   1230     10-7-24  Publication of Minutes
          136.05                  1231     10-7-24  Sidewalk Liability
          50.08                   1232     10-7-24  Adult Establishment
                                                    Nuisances
          5.02                    1233     10-7-24  Bond Requirements
          5.06                    1234     10-7-24  Electronic Meetings
          37.14                   1235     10-7-24  Authority to Cite
                                                    Violations
          7.05(4)                 1236     10-7-24  Operating Budget
                                                    Preparation
Nov-24    Ch. 56                  1237     11-18-24 Dog and Cat License
                                                    Required
          41.14(3)(A)             1238     11-18-24 Fire Works
          78.03(1)(D);
          78.03(2);               1239     11-18-24 Golf Cart Operation
          78.08
          71.03(6)                1240     11-18-24 Administrative Traffic
                                                    Enforcements
Dec-24    99.01                   1241     12-2-24  Sewer Service Charges
          92.02                   1242     12-2-24  Water Rates
          165.26                  1243     12-2-24  Two-Family and Multi-Family
                                                    Dwellings
May-25    Ch. 99A                 1244     5-19-25  Utility Improvement Fund
Jun-25    92.05(4);               1245     6-16-25  Water Service Billing
          92.10
          24.03                   1246     6-16-25  Board of Adjustment
          122.05                  1247     6-16-25  Peddlers, Solicitors, and
                                                    Transient Merchants
          90.06                   1248     6-16-25  Water Service System
          96.02                   1249     6-16-25  Building Sewers and
                                                    Connections
          135.09(10)              1250     6-16-25  Street Use and Maintenance
          151.13(1)               1251     6-16-25  Trees
          165.39(1)(A);
          165.44(6);              1252     6-16-25  Zoning Regulations
          165.45(4);
          165.46(5)
          41.14(3)                1253     6-16-25  Fireworks
Aug-25    37.15                   1254     8-18-25  Fire Department
`
CHAPTER 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES
1.01 Title                  1.09 Catchlines and Notes
1.02 Definitions            1.10 Altering Code
1.03 City Powers            1.11 Severability
1.04 Indemnity              1.12 Warrants
1.05 Personal Injuries      1.13 General Standards for Action
1.06 Rules of Construction  1.14 Standard Penalty
1.07 Extension of Authority 1.15 Right of Entry
1.08 Amendments
 
1.01 TITLE.
This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Maquoketa, Iowa.
1.02 DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in this Code of Ordinances are defined in the Code
of Iowa, such definitions apply to their use in this Code of Ordinances unless
such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council
or repugnant to the context of the provision. Other words and phrases used
herein have the following meanings, unless specifically defined otherwise in
another portion of this Code of Ordinances or unless such construction would be
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council or repugnant to the
context of the provision:
1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street, affording
secondary means of access to abutting property.
2.   “City” means the city of Maquoketa, Iowa.
3.   “Clerk” means the city clerk of Maquoketa, Iowa.
4.   “Code” means the specific chapter of this Code of Ordinances in which a
specific subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such as the
Building Code and/or a standard code adopted by reference).
5.   “Code of Ordinances” means the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Maquoketa, Iowa.
6.   “Council” means the city council of Maquoketa, Iowa.
7.   “County” means Clinton County and Jackson County, Iowa.
8.   “IAC” means the Iowa Administrative Code.
9.   “May” confers a power.
10.   “Measure” means an ordinance, amendment, resolution, or motion.
11.   “Must” states a requirement.
12.   “Occupant” or “tenant,” applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
13.   “Ordinances” means the ordinances of the City of Maquoketa, Iowa, as
embodied in this Code of Ordinances, ordinances not repealed by the ordinance
adopting this Code of Ordinances, and those enacted hereafter.
14.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust, or other
legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.
15.   “Public way” includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.
16.   “Shall” imposes a duty.
17.   “Sidewalk” means that surfaced portion of the street between the edge of
the traveled way, surfacing, or curb line and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
18.   “State” means the State of Iowa.
19.   “Statutes” or “laws” means the latest edition of the Code of Iowa, as
amended.
20.   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
Words that are not defined in this Code of Ordinances or by the Code of Iowa
have their ordinary meaning unless such construction would be inconsistent with
the manifest intent of the Council, or repugnant to the context of the
provision.
1.03 CITY POWERS.
The City may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if not
inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any power and
perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the rights,
privileges, and property of the City and of its residents, and to preserve and
improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and convenience of its
residents, and each and every provision of this Code of Ordinances shall be
deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and the performance of the
foregoing functions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.1)
1.04 INDEMNITY.
The applicant for any permit or license under this Code of Ordinances, by
making such application, assumes and agrees to pay for any injury to or death
of any person or persons whomsoever, and any loss of or damage to property
whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however arising
from or related to, directly, indirectly, or remotely, the issuance of the
permit or license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of such
applicant, or the agents, employees, or servants of such applicant, to abide by
or comply with any of the provisions of this Code of Ordinances or the terms
and conditions of such permit or license, and such applicant, by making such
application, forever agrees to indemnify the City and its officers, agents, and
employees, and agrees to save them harmless from any and all claims, demands,
lawsuits, or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage, injury, or death,
including all costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason of the foregoing.
The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a part of any permit or
license issued under this Code of Ordinances or any other ordinance of the
City, whether expressly recited therein or not.
1.05 PERSONAL INJURIES.
When action is brought against the City for personal injuries alleged to have
been caused by its negligence, the City may notify in writing any person by
whose negligence it claims the injury was caused. The notice shall state the
pendency of the action, the name of the plaintiff, the name and location of the
court where the action is pending, a brief statement of the alleged facts from
which the cause arose, that the City believes that the person notified is
liable to it for any judgment rendered against the City, and asking the person
to appear and defend. A judgment obtained in the suit is conclusive in any
action by the City against any person so notified, as to the existence of the
defect or other cause of the injury or damage, as to the liability of the City
to the plaintiff in the first named action, and as to the amount of the damage
or injury. The City may maintain an action against the person notified to
recover the amount of the judgment together with all the expenses incurred by
the City in the suit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.14)
1.06 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the rules of statutory
construction as set forth in Chapter 4 of the Code of Iowa shall be utilized to
ascertain the intent of the Council, with the understanding that the term
“statute” as used therein will be deemed to be synonymous with the term
“ordinance” when applied to this Code of Ordinances.
1.07 EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this Code of Ordinances, the provision shall be construed as
authorizing performance by a regular assistant, subordinate, or a duly
authorized designee of said officer or employee.
1.08 AMENDMENTS.
All ordinances that amend, repeal, or in any manner affect this Code of
Ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, subsection, or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.2)
1.09 CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code of Ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section, and subsection), editor’s notes, cross references,
and State law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself,
contained in this Code of Ordinances, do not constitute any part of the law and
are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement, or clarify the contents
of a section.
1.10 ALTERING CODE.
It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this Code of Ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code of
Ordinances in any manner that will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented.
1.11 SEVERABILITY.
If any section, provision, or part of this Code of Ordinances is adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity of
this Code of Ordinances as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof
not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
1.12 WARRANTS.
If consent to enter upon or inspect any building, structure, or property
pursuant to a municipal ordinance is withheld by any person having the lawful
right to exclude, the City officer or employee having the duty to enter upon or
conduct the inspection may apply to the Iowa District Court in and for the
County, pursuant to Section 808.14 of the Code of Iowa, for an administrative
search warrant. No owner, operator or occupant, or any other person having
charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, rooming unit, structure,
building, or premises shall fail or neglect, after presentation of a search
warrant, to permit entry therein by the municipal officer or employee.
1.13 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACTION.
Whenever this Code of Ordinances grants any discretionary power to the Council
or any commission, board, or officer or employee of the City and does not
specify standards to govern the exercise of the power, the power shall be
exercised in light of the following standard: The discretionary power to grant,
deny, or revoke any matter shall be considered in light of the facts and
circumstances then existing and as may be reasonably foreseeable, and due
consideration shall be given to the impact upon the public health, safety and
welfare, and the decision shall be that of a reasonably prudent person under
similar circumstances in the exercise of the police power.
1.14 STANDARD PENALTY.
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this Code of Ordinances for
violation of any particular provision, section, or chapter, any person failing
to perform a duty required by this Code of Ordinances or otherwise violating
any provision of this Code of Ordinances or any rule or regulation adopted
herein by reference shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of at least
$105.00 but not to exceed $855.00.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[2] and 903.1[1a])
1.15 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any ordinance, or whenever
there is a reasonable cause to believe that there exists an ordinance violation
in any building or upon any premises within the jurisdiction of the City, any
authorized official of the City, may, upon presentation of proper credentials,
enter such building or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same and
to perform any duty imposed upon them by ordinance; provided that, except in
emergency situations, they shall first give the owner and/or occupant written
notice of the authorized official’s intention to inspect. In the event the
owner and/or occupant refuses entry, the official is empowered to seek
assistance from any court of competent jurisdiction in obtaining such entry.
CHAPTER 2
CHARTER
 
2.01 Title                              2.04 Number and Term of Council
2.02 Form of Government                 2.05 Term of Mayor
2.03 Powers and Duties of City Officers 2.06 Copies on File
 
2.01 TITLE.
This chapter may be cited as the charter of the City of Maquoketa, Iowa. 1
 
Notes
1 †  EDITOR’S NOTE: An ordinance adopting a charter for the City was passed and
  approved by the Council on August 6, 1973.
2.02 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
The form of government of the City is the Mayor-Council form of government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
2.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
The Council and Mayor and other City officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by State law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the City.
2.04 NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of two Council Members elected at large and one Council
Member from each of five wards as established by this Code of Ordinances,
elected for overlapping terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.05 TERM OF MAYOR.
The Mayor is elected for a term of two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.06 COPIES ON FILE.
The Clerk shall keep an official copy of the charter on file with the official
records of the Clerk and the Secretary of State, and shall keep copies of the
charter available at the Clerk’s office for public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.1[3])
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
 
3.01 Municipal Infraction    3.04 Civil Citations
3.02 Environmental Violation 3.05 Alternative Relief
3.03 Penalties               3.06 Alternative Penalties
 
3.01 MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
A violation of this Code of Ordinances or any ordinance or code herein adopted
by reference or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty required by
the same, with the exception of those provisions specifically provided under
State law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious misdemeanor, or
a simple misdemeanor under Chapters 687 through 747 of the Code of Iowa, is a
municipal infraction punishable by civil penalty as provided herein.  2
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[3])
 
Notes
  †  EDITOR’S NOTE: For criminal penalty for violations of this Code of
2 Ordinances, see Section
  1.14.
3.02 ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATION.
A municipal infraction that is a violation of Chapter 455B of the Code of Iowa
or of a standard established by the City in consultation with the Department of
Natural Resources, or both, may be classified as an environmental violation.
However, the provisions of this section shall not be applicable until the City
has offered to participate in informal negotiations regarding the violation or
to the following specific violations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
1.   A violation arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment standard or
requirement referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8.
2.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person not engaged in the industrial
production or manufacturing of grain products.
3.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person engaged in such industrial production
or manufacturing if such discharge occurs from September 15 to January 15.
3.03 PENALTIES.
A municipal infraction is punishable by the following civil penalties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
1.   Standard Civil Penalties.
   A.   First offense – not to exceed $750.00
   B.   Each repeat offense – not to exceed $1,000.00
Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a repeat
offense.
2.   Special Civil Penalties.
   A.   A municipal infraction arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment
standard or requirement, referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8, by an industrial user
is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each day a violation
exists or continues.
   B.   A municipal infraction classified as an environmental violation is
punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each occurrence.
However, an environmental violation is not subject to such penalty if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The violation results solely from conducting an initial startup,
cleaning, repairing, performing scheduled maintenance, testing, or conducting a
shutdown of either equipment causing the violation or the equipment designed to
reduce or eliminate the violation.
      (2)   The City is notified of the violation within 24 hours from the time
that the violation begins.
      (3)   The violation does not continue in existence for more than eight
hours.
3.04 CIVIL CITATIONS.
Any officer authorized by the City to enforce this Code of Ordinances may issue
a civil citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction. A copy of the
citation may be served by personal service as provided in Rule of Civil
Procedure 1.305, by certified mail addressed to the defendant at defendant’s
last known mailing address, return receipt requested, or by publication in the
manner as provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.310 and subject to the
conditions of Rule of Civil Procedure 1.311. A copy of the citation shall be
retained by the issuing officer, and the original citation shall be sent to the
Clerk of the District Court. The citation shall serve as notification that a
civil offense has been committed and shall contain the following information:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[4])
1.   The name and address of the defendant.
2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation.
3.   The location and time of the infraction.
4.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative relief
sought, or both.
5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid.
6.   The time and place of court appearance.
7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.
8.   The legal description of the affected real property, if applicable.
If the citation affects real property and charges a violation relating to the
condition of the property, including a building code violation, a local housing
regulation violation, a housing code violation, or a public health or safety
violation, after filing the citation with the Clerk of the District Court, the
City shall also file the citation in the office of the County Treasurer.
3.05 ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.
Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not preclude the
City from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action. Such
alternative relief may include, but is not limited to, an order for abatement
or injunctive relief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[9])
3.06 ALTERNATIVE PENALTIES.
This chapter does not preclude a peace officer from issuing a criminal citation
for a violation of this Code of Ordinances or regulation if criminal penalties
are also provided for the violation. Nor does it preclude or limit the
authority of the City to enforce the provisions of this Code of Ordinances by
criminal sanctions or other lawful means.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[12])
CHAPTER 4
BOUNDARIES
4.01 DIVISION INTO WARDS.
The City is divided into five wards described as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4 and 372.13[7])
1.   First Ward and First Precinct. The First Ward and First Precinct shall
include all that part of the City lying in the northeast part of the City:
Commencing at the intersection of East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) and North
Matteson Street thence North along North Matteson Street to the intersection
with East Quarry Street, thence West along East Quarry Street to the
intersection with North Eliza Street, thence North along North Eliza Street to
the intersection with East Apple Street, thence West along East Apple Street to
the intersection with North Main Street, thence North along North Main Street
as extended to the North corporate line of the City, thence East and South
along the corporate line to the intersection with East Platt Street (U.S.
Highway 64), thence West to the point of beginning.
2.   Second Ward and Second Precinct. The Second Ward and Second Precinct shall
include all that part if the City lying in the northwest part of the City:
Commencing at the intersection of Iowa Highway 64 and the West corporate line
of the City, thence East along the center line of Iowa Highway 64 to the
intersection with North Eliza Street, thence North along North Eliza Street to
the intersection with East Apple Street, thence West along East Apple Street to
the intersection with North Main Street, thence North along North Main Street
to the to the North corporate line of the City, thence West and South along the
corporate line of the City to the point of beginning.
3.   Third Ward and Third Precinct. The Third Ward and Third Precinct shall
include that part of the City lying in the east central part of the City:
Commencing at the intersection of South 5th Street and the corporate limits,
thence North along South 5th Street to the intersection with West Jefferson
Street, thence East along West Jefferson Street to the intersection with South
2nd Street, thence North along South 2nd Street to the intersection West Maple
Street, thence East along West Maple Street to the intersection with South Main
Street, thence North along South Main Street to the intersection with Platt
Street (U.S. Highway 64), thence East along East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64)
to the intersection with Eliza Street, thence North along North Eliza Street to
the intersection with East Quarry Street, thence East along East Quarry Street
to the intersection with North Matteson Street, thence South along North
Matteson Street to the intersection with East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64),
thence East along East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) to the East corporate
limits, thence South and West along the corporate limits to the point of
beginning.
4.   Fourth Ward and Fourth Precinct. The Fourth Ward and Fourth Precinct shall
include all that part of the City lying within the center lines of the
following named streets:
Commencing at the intersection of West Summit Street and Thomas Avenue, thence
North, then West, then North, then East along Thomas Avenue to the intersection
with Jones Avenue, thence North along Jones Avenue to the intersection with
West Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64), then East along West Platt Street (U.S.
Highway 64) to the intersection with Main Street, thence South along South Main
Street to the intersection with Maple Street, thence West along West Maple
Street to the intersection with South 2nd Street, thence South along South 2nd
Street to the intersection with West Jefferson Street, thence West along West
Jefferson Street to the intersection with South 5th Street, thence North along
South 5th Street to the intersection with West Summit Street, thence West to
the point of beginning.
5.   Fifth Ward and Fifth Precinct. The Fifth Ward and Fifth Precinct shall
include all that part of the City lying in the western and southern parts of
the City, excluding Census Block No. 190450011001008 which lies within Clinton
County and crosses a legislative district boundary. Census Block No.
190450011001008 shall be subject to the Memorandum of Agreement with Clinton
County dated October 24, 2011:
Commencing at the intersection of Highway 61 and Family Dollar Parkway thence
West to 220th Avenue, thence north along the corporate limits to the
intersection with Highway 61 thence West along Highway 61 to Seventeenth
Street, thence West on Seventeenth Street to the intersection with 184th
Avenue, thence Northward along the corporate limits to the intersection with
West Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64), thence East along West Platt Street (U.S.
Highway 64) to the intersection with Jones Avenue, thence South along Jones
Avenue to the intersection with Thomas Avenue, thence West, South, East, and
again South along Thomas Avenue to West Summit Street, thence East along West
Summit Street to the intersection with South 5th Street, thence South along
South 5th Street to corporate City limits, thence West, South, East and South
along corporate City limits to the point of beginning.
6.   At Large. The City shall have two at-large districts for the purposes of
representation on the Council. The at-large districts will encompass the entire
area within the corporate limits of the City.
CHAPTER 5
OPERATING PROCEDURES
 
5.01 Oaths                 5.08 Resignations
5.02 Bonds                 5.09 Removal of Appointed Officers and Employees
5.03 Powers and Duties     5.10 Vacancies
5.04 Books and Records     5.11 Gifts
5.05 Transfer to Successor 5.12 Residence Requirements
5.06 Meetings              5.13 Board and Commission Requirements
5.07 Conflict of Interest  5.14 Removal From Office
 
5.01 OATHS.
The oath of office shall be required and administered in accordance with the
following:
1.   Qualify for Office. Each elected or appointed officer shall qualify for
office by taking the prescribed oath and by giving, when required, a bond. The
oath shall be taken, and bond provided, after such officer is certified as
elected but not later than noon of the first day that is not a Sunday or a
legal holiday in January of the first year of the term for which the officer
was elected.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.1)
2.   Prescribed Oath. The prescribed oath is: “I, (name), do solemnly swear
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of the State of Iowa, and that I will faithfully and impartially, to the best
of my ability, discharge all duties of the office of (name of office) in
Maquoketa as now or hereafter required by law.”
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.10)
3.   Officers Empowered to Administer Oaths. The following are empowered to
administer oaths and to take affirmations in any matter pertaining to the
business of their respective offices:
   A.   Mayor
   B.   City Clerk
   C.   Members of all boards, commissions, or bodies created by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63A.2)
5.02 BONDS.
Surety bonds are provided in accordance with the following:
1.   Required. The Council shall provide by resolution for a surety bond or
blanket position bond running to the City and covering the Mayor, Clerk,
Treasurer, and such other officers and employees as may be necessary and
advisable except as allowed in Subsection 5.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.13)
2.   Bonds Approved. Bonds shall be approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.19)
3.   Bonds Filed. All bonds, after approval and proper record, shall be filed
with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.23(6))
4.   Record. The Clerk shall keep a book, to be known as the “Record of
Official Bonds” in which shall be recorded the official bonds of all City
officers, elective or appointive.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.24(1)(a))
5.   Insurance Policy in Lieu of Bond. In lieu of a bond, a public officer
required to obtain a bond pursuant to Chapter 64 of the Code of Iowa may obtain
an insurance policy in an amount not less than the amounts required of a bond.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.3)
(Section 5.02 – Ord._1233 – Oct. 24 Supp.)
5.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
Each municipal officer shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
prescribed by law and this Code of Ordinances, or as otherwise directed by the
Council unless contrary to State law or City charter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.04 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
All books and records required to be kept by law or ordinance shall be open to
examination by the public upon request, unless some other provisions of law
expressly limit such right or require such records to be kept confidential.
Access to public records that are combined with data processing software shall
be in accordance with policies and procedures established by the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 22.2 and 22.3A)
5.05 TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR.
Each officer shall transfer to his or her successor in office all books,
papers, records, documents and property in the officer’s custody and
appertaining to that office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.06 MEETINGS.
All meetings of the Council, any board or commission, or any multi-membered
body formally and directly created by any of the foregoing bodies shall be held
in accordance with the following:
1.   Definitions. The following terms are defined for use in this section.
   A.   “Closed session” means a meeting to which all members of the public do
not have access as allowed by Section 21.5 of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   “Hybrid meeting” means a meeting involving both remote participation
and in-person participation by members.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(a))
   C.   “Open session” means a meeting to which all members of the public have
access.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.2(3))
   D.   “Remote participation” means real-time participation by a remotely
located individual in a meeting which is being held in a different physical
location using integrated audio, video, and other digital tools.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(b))
   E.   “Reasonable notice” means advising the news media who have filed a
request for notice with the governmental body and posting the notice on a
bulletin board or other prominent place which is easily accessible to the
public and clearly designated for that purpose at the principal office of the
body holding the meeting, or if not such office exists, at the building in
which the meeting is to be held.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4(1))
   F.   “Teleconference participation” means participation using audio
conference tools involving multiple participants in at least two separate
locations.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(c))
   G.   “Virtual meeting” means a meeting involving real-time interaction using
integrated audio, video, and other digital tools, in which participants do not
share a physical location.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(d))
2.   Notice of Meetings. Reasonable notice of the time, date, and place of each
meeting and its tentative agenda shall be given.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4)
3.   Meetings Open. All meetings shall be held in open session unless closed
sessions are held as expressly permitted by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
4.   Minutes. Minutes shall be kept of all meetings showing the date, time, and
place, the members present, and the action taken at each meeting. The minutes
shall show the results of each vote taken and information sufficient to
indicate the vote of each member present. The vote of each member present shall
be made public at the open session. The minutes shall be public records open to
public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
5.   Closed Session. A closed session may be held only by affirmative vote of
either two-thirds of the body or all of the members present at the meeting and
in accordance with Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.5)
6.   Cameras and Recorders. The public may use cameras or recording devices at
any open session.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.7)
7.   Electronic Meetings. A governmental body shall provide for hybrid
meetings, teleconference participation, virtual meetings, remote participation,
and other hybrid options for the members of the governmental body to
participate in official meetings. A governmental body conducting a meeting
pursuant to this subsection shall comply with all of the provisions of Chapter
21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8)
(Section 5.06 – Ord._1234 – Oct. 24 Supp.)
5.07 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
A City officer or employee shall not have an interest, direct or indirect, in
any contract or job of work or material or the profits thereof or services to
be furnished or performed for the City, unless expressly permitted by law. A
contract entered into in violation of this section is void. The provisions of
this section do not apply to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5)
1.   Compensation of Officers. The payment of lawful compensation of a City
officer or employee holding more than one City office or position, the holding
of which is not incompatible with another public office or is not prohibited by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3a])
2.   Investment of Funds. The designation of a bank or trust company as a
depository, paying agent, or for investment of funds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3b])
3.   City Treasurer. An employee of a bank or trust company, who serves as
Treasurer of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3c])
4.   Stock Interests. Contracts in which a City officer or employee has an
interest solely by reason of employment, or a stock interest of the kind
described in Subsection 8 of this section, or both, if the contracts are made
by competitive bid in writing, publicly invited and opened, or if the
remuneration of employment will not be directly affected as a result of the
contract and the duties of employment do not directly involve the procurement
or preparation of any part of the contract. The competitive bid qualification
of this subsection does not apply to a contract for professional services not
customarily awarded by competitive bid.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3e])
5.   Newspaper. The designation of an official newspaper.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3f])
6.   Existing Contracts. A contract in which a City officer or employee has an
interest if the contract was made before the time the officer or employee was
elected or appointed, but the contract may not be renewed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3g])
7.   Volunteers. Contracts with volunteer firefighters or civil defense
volunteers.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3h])
8.   Corporations. A contract with a corporation in which a City officer or
employee has an interest by reason of stock holdings when less than five
percent of the outstanding stock of the corporation is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the officer or employee or the spouse or immediate
family of such officer or employee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3i])
9.   Contracts. Contracts made by the City upon competitive bid in writing,
publicly invited and opened.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3d])
10.   Cumulative Purchases. Contracts not otherwise permitted by this section,
for the purchase of goods or services that benefit a City officer or employee,
if the purchases benefiting that officer or employee do not exceed a cumulative
total purchase price of $6,000.00 in a fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3j])
11.   Franchise Agreements. Franchise agreements between the City and a utility
and contracts entered into by the City for the provision of essential City
utility services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3k])
12.   Third Party Contracts. A contract that is a bond, note or other
obligation of the City and the contract is not acquired directly from the City
but is acquired in a transaction with a third party who may or may not be the
original underwriter, purchaser, or obligee of the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3l])
5.08 RESIGNATIONS.
An elected officer who wishes to resign may do so by submitting a resignation
in writing to the Clerk so that it shall be properly recorded and considered. A
person who resigns from an elective office is not eligible for appointment to
the same office during the time for which the person was elected if, during
that time, the compensation of the office has been increased.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[9])
5.09 REMOVAL OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
Except as otherwise provided by State or City law, all persons appointed to
City office or employment may be removed by the officer or body making the
appointment, but every such removal shall be by written order. The order shall
give the reasons, be filed in the office of the Clerk, and a copy shall be sent
by certified mail to the person removed, who, upon request filed with the Clerk
within 30 days after the date of mailing the copy, shall be granted a public
hearing before the Council on all issues connected with the removal. The
hearing shall be held within 30 days after the date the request is filed,
unless the person removed requests a later date.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.15)
5.10 VACANCIES.
A vacancy in an elective City office during a term of office shall be filled in
accordance with Section 372.13[2] of the Code of Iowa.
5.11 GIFTS.
Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 68B of the Code of Iowa, a public
official, public employee or candidate, or that person’s immediate family
member, shall not, directly or indirectly, accept or receive any gift or series
of gifts from a “restricted donor” as defined in Chapter 68B and a restricted
donor shall not, directly or indirectly, individually or jointly with one or
more other restricted donors, offer or make a gift or a series of gifts to a
public official, public employee, or candidate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 68B.22)
5.12 RESIDENCE REQUIREMENTS.
All new employees employed by the City after adoption of this ordinance must
reside within the State within 60 days of their first day of work and must
remain a resident of the State throughout the period of their employment with
the City. Employees of the City who hold the following positions shall maintain
their principal place of residence within five miles of the City limits: City
Manager, Chief of Police, Director of Public Works, Street Superintendent, and
Fire Chief. This requirement shall not apply to persons holding these positions
as of January 1, 1990, unless they already reside within five miles of the City
limits.
5.13 BOARD AND COMMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
1.   Membership and Sections. Membership and selections of members of
committees, boards, and commissions shall be as specified in this chapter or
the Code of Iowa. Any committee, board, or commission so established shall
cease to exist upon the accomplishment of the special purpose for which it was
created, or when abolished by a majority vote of the Council or as specified in
the Code of Iowa.
2.   Residency Requirement. No person shall be appointed or reappointed to a
committee, board, or commission or ad hoc committee created by such committee,
board, or commission unless such person is, at the time of such appointment or
reappointment, a resident of the City, and any person so appointed or
reappointed shall maintain such residency during the term of the appointment or
reappointment. Any member of a committee, board, or commission or ad hoc
committee created by such committee, board, or commission who fails to maintain
such residency shall be deemed removed as of the date of such change of
residency, any provision in this Code to the contrary notwithstanding.
3.   Gender Balance. (Repealed by Ordinance_No._1228 – Oct. 24 Supp.)
5.14 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
1.   Process of Removal. Any elected City official may be removed from office
for any of the reasons set forth in Chapter 66 of the Code of Iowa. The removal
process begins when five qualified electors of the City sign and file in the
office of the Clerk a Petition for Removal. The petition need not be in any
special form but must be in writing and it must state the grounds for removal.
   A.   Upon filing of a Petition for Removal, the City Manager shall set a
time and place for a hearing upon the petition and the City Manager shall cause
a copy of the petition and a notice of the time, date, and place of the hearing
to be served upon the officer whose removal is sought in the petition.
   B.   The removal petition shall be heard by the Council and the Council
shall vote to remove or not to remove the officer after the hearing upon the
petition. The vote shall be by roll call vote in public session. The removal of
an elected official requires a two-thirds vote of the Council.
2.   Additional Grounds for Removal. Additional grounds for removal under this
section shall include:
   A.   Full time residency outside the City limits by an officer or appointee
whose office requires residency within the City.
   B.   Full term residency outside of the County by an appointee whose office
requires residence in the County.
   C.   Absence from three or more consecutive meetings of the appointees or
elected officials of the Board Commissions or Council meeting.
CHAPTER 6
CITY ELECTIONS
 
6.01 Nominating Method to Be Used 6.04 Preparation of Petition and Affidavit
6.02 Nominations by Petition      6.05 Filing; Presumption; Withdrawals;
                                  Objections
6.03 Adding Name by Petition      6.06 Persons Elected
 
6.01 NOMINATING METHOD TO BE USED.
All candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated under the
provisions of Chapter 45 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.3)
6.02 NOMINATIONS BY PETITION.
Nominations for elective municipal offices of the City may be made by
nomination paper or papers signed by not less than 25 eligible electors,
residents of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.1)
6.03 ADDING NAME BY PETITION.
The name of a candidate placed upon the ballot by any other method than by
petition shall not be added by petition for the same office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.2)
6.04 PREPARATION OF PETITION AND AFFIDAVIT.
Nomination papers shall include a petition and an affidavit of candidacy. The
petition and affidavit shall be substantially in the form prescribed by the
State Commissioner of Elections, shall include information required by the Code
of Iowa, and shall be signed in accordance with the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.3, 45.5, and 45.6)
6.05 FILING; PRESUMPTION; WITHDRAWALS; OBJECTIONS.
The time and place of filing nomination petitions, the presumption of validity
thereof, the right of a candidate so nominated to withdraw and the effect of
such withdrawal, and the right to object to the legal sufficiency of such
petitions, or to the eligibility of the candidate, shall be governed by the
appropriate provisions of Chapter 44 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.4)
6.06 PERSONS ELECTED.
The candidates who receive the greatest number of votes for each office on the
ballot are elected, to the extent necessary to fill the positions open.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.8[3])
CHAPTER 7
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
 
7.01 Purpose                      7.06 Budget Amendments
7.02 Finance Officer              7.07 Accounting
7.03 Cash Control                 7.08 Financial Reports
7.04 Fund Control                 7.09 Setoff Program Provisions
7.05 Operating Budget Preparation
 
7.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and provide for rules and
regulations governing the management of the financial affairs of the City.
7.02 FINANCE OFFICER.
The City Manager is the finance and accounting officer of the City and is
responsible for the administration of the provisions of this chapter.
7.03 CASH CONTROL.
To assure the proper accounting and safe custody of moneys the following shall
apply:
1.   Deposit of Funds. All moneys or fees collected for any purpose by any City
officer shall be deposited through the office of the finance officer. If any
said fees are due to an officer, they shall be paid to the officer by check
drawn by the finance officer and approved by the Council only upon such
officer’s making adequate reports relating thereto as required by law,
ordinance, or Council directive.
2.   Deposits and Investments. All moneys belonging to the City shall be
promptly deposited in depositories selected by the Council in amounts not
exceeding the authorized depository limitation established by the Council or
invested in accordance with the City’s written investment policy and State law,
including joint investments as authorized by Section 384.21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.21, 12B.10, 12C.1)
3.   Petty Cash and Change Fund. The finance officer shall be custodian of a
petty cash and change fund for the payment of small claims for minor purchases,
collect-on-delivery transportation charges, and small fees customarily paid at
the time of rendering a service, for which payments the finance officer shall
obtain some form of receipt or bill acknowledged as paid by the vendor or
agent. Such fund shall also be used for the purpose of making change without
comingling other funds to meet the requirements of the office. At such time as
the fund is approaching depletion, the finance officer shall draw a check for
replenishment in the amount of the accumulated expenditures and said check and
supporting detail shall be submitted to the Council as a claim in the usual
manner for claims and charged to the proper funds and accounts. It shall not be
used for salary payments or other personal services or personal expenses.
7.04 FUND CONTROL.
There shall be established and maintained separate and distinct funds in
accordance with the following:
1.   Revenues. All moneys received by the City shall be credited to the proper
fund as required by law, ordinance, or resolution.
2.   Expenditures. No disbursement shall be made from a fund unless such
disbursement is authorized by law, ordinance, or resolution, was properly
budgeted, and supported by a claim approved by the Council.
3.   Emergency Fund. No transfer may be made from any fund to the Emergency
Fund.
(545 IAC 2.5[2])
4.   Debt Service Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by State law,
moneys may be transferred from any other City fund to the Debt Service Fund to
meet payments of principal and interest. Such transfers must be authorized by
the original budget or a budget amendment.
(545 IAC 2.5[3])
5.   Capital Improvements Reserve Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by
State law, moneys may be transferred from any City fund to the Capital
Improvements Reserve Fund. Such transfers must be authorized by the original
budget or a budget amendment.
(545 IAC 2.5[4])
6.   Utility and Enterprise Funds. A surplus in a Utility or Enterprise Fund
may be transferred to any other City fund, except the Emergency Fund, by
resolution of the Council. A surplus may exist only after all required
transfers have been made to any restricted accounts in accordance with the
terms and provisions of any revenue bonds or loan agreements relating to the
Utility or Enterprise Fund. A surplus is defined as the cash balance in the
operating account or the unrestricted net position calculated in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, after adding back the net
pension and other postemployment benefits, liabilities, and the related
deferred inflows of resources and deducting the related deferred outflows of
resources, in excess of:
A.   The amount of the expenses of disbursements for operating and maintaining
the utility or enterprise for the preceding three months; and
B.   The amount necessary to make all required transfers to restricted accounts
for the succeeding three months.
(545 IAC 2.5[5])
7.   Balancing of Funds. Fund accounts shall be reconciled at the close of each
month and a report thereof submitted to the Council.
7.05 OPERATING BUDGET PREPARATION.
The annual operating budget of the City shall be prepared in accordance with
the following:
1.   Proposal Prepared. The finance officer is responsible for preparation of
the annual budget detail, for review by the Mayor and Council and adoption by
the Council in accordance with directives of the Mayor and Council.
2.   Boards and Commissions. All boards, commissions, and other administrative
agencies of the City that are authorized to prepare and administer budgets must
submit their budget proposals to the finance officer for inclusion in the
proposed City budget at such time and in such form as required by the Council.
3.   Submission to Council. The finance officer shall submit the completed
budget proposal to the Council each year at such time as directed by the
Council.
4.   Annual Statement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 24.2A(2))
   A.   On or before 4:00 p.m. on March 5 of each year, the City shall file,
with the Department of Management, a report containing all necessary
information for the Department of Management to compile and calculate amounts
required to be included in the statement mailed under Paragraph B.
   B.   Not later than March 15, the County Auditor, using information compiled
and calculated by the Department of Management shall send to each property
owner or taxpayer within the County, by regular mail, an individual statement
containing all of the required information as provided under Section 24.2(2)(B)
(1-10) of the Code of Iowa.
   C.   The Department of Management shall prescribe the form for the report
required under Paragraph A, the statements to be mailed under Paragraph B, and
the public hearing notice required under Paragraph D.
   D.   The Council shall set a time and place for a public hearing on the
City’s proposed property tax amount for the budget year and the City’s
information included in the statements under Paragraph B. The proposed property
tax hearing shall be set on a date on or after March 20 of the budget year
immediately preceding the budget year for which the tax is being proposed. At
the hearing, the Council shall receive oral or written testimony from any
resident or property owner of the City. This public hearing shall be separate
from any other meeting of the Council, including any other meeting or public
hearing relating to the City’s budget, and other business of the City that is
not related to the proposed property tax amounts and the information in the
statements shall not be conducted at the public hearing. After all testimony
has been received and considered, the governing body may decrease, but not
increase, the proposed property tax amount to be included in the City’s budget.
      (1)   Notice of the public hearing shall be published not less than 10
nor more than 20 days prior to the hearing, in a newspaper published at least
once weekly and having general circulation in the City. However, if the City
has a population of 200 or less, publication may be made by posting in three
public places in the City.
      (2)   Notice of the hearing shall also be posted and clearly identified
on the City’s internet site for public viewing beginning on the date of the
newspaper publication and shall be maintained on the City’s internet site with
all such prior year notices.
      (3)   Additionally, if the City maintains a social media account on one
or more social media applications, the public hearing notice or an electronic
link to the public hearing notice shall be posted on each such account on a
date no later than the date of publication of the notice.
      (4)   Failure of a newspaper to publish a required notice under this
paragraph shall not be considered a failure of a political subdivision to
provide required notice under this paragraph if all of the following conditions
are met:
         a.   Notice of the public hearing was provided to each property owner
and each taxpayer within the political subdivision in statements required under
Subsection 2, Paragraph B.
         b.   The political subdivision can demonstrate to the county auditor
that the political subdivision provided sufficient time for the newspaper to
publish the notice.
(Subsection 4 – Ord._1236 – Oct. 24 Supp.)
5.   Council Review. The Council shall review the proposed budget and may make
any adjustments it deems appropriate in the budget before accepting such
proposal for publication, hearing, and final adoption.
6.   Notice of Hearing. Following, and not until the requirements, of
Subsection 4 of this section, are completed, the Council shall set a time and
place for public hearing on the budget to be held before April 30 and shall
publish notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days before the
hearing. A summary of the proposed budget and a description of the procedure
for protesting the City budget under Section 384.19 of the Code of Iowa, in the
form prescribed by the Director of the Department of Management, shall be
included in the notice.  Proof of publication of the notice under
this subsection must be filed with the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[3])
7.   Copies of Budget on File. Not less than 20 days before the date that the
budget must be certified to the County Auditor and not less than 10 days before
the public hearing, the Clerk shall make available a sufficient number of
copies of the detailed budget to meet the requests of taxpayers and
organizations, and have them available for distribution at the offices of the
Mayor and Clerk and at the City library.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[2])
8.   Adoption and Certification. After the hearing, the Council shall adopt, by
resolution, a budget for at least the next fiscal year and the Clerk shall
certify the necessary tax levy for the next fiscal year to the County Auditor
and the County Board of Supervisors. The tax levy certified may be less than,
but not more than, the amount estimated in the proposed budget submitted at the
final hearing, unless an additional tax levy is approved at a City election.
Two copies each of the detailed budget as adopted and of the tax certificate
must be transmitted to the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[5])
7.06 BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
A City budget finally adopted for the following fiscal year becomes effective
July 1 and constitutes the City appropriation for each program and purpose
specified therein until amended as provided by this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.18)
1.   Program Increase. Any increase in the amount appropriated to a program
must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as the
original budget.
(545 IAC 2.2)
2.   Program Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one program to
another must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as
the original budget.
(545 IAC 2.3)
3.   Activity Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one activity to
another activity within a program must be approved by resolution of the
Council.
(545 IAC 2.4)
4.   Administrative Transfers. The finance officer shall have the authority to
adjust, by transfer or otherwise, the appropriations allocated within a
specific activity without prior Council approval.
(545 IAC 2.4)
7.07 ACCOUNTING.
The accounting records of the City shall consist of not less than the
following:
1.   Books of Original Entry. There shall be established and maintained books
of original entry to provide a chronological record of cash received and
disbursed.
2.   General Ledger. There shall be established and maintained a general ledger
controlling all cash transactions, budgetary accounts and for recording
unappropriated surpluses.
3.   Checks. Two signatures are required on all City checks. Checks shall be
prenumbered and signed by any two of the following: City Manager, Deputy Clerk,
Finance Clerk, Mayor, plus various account signers as listed on signature cards
following Council approval, except as provided by Subsection 5 hereof.
4.   Budget Accounts. There shall be established such individual accounts to
record receipts by source and expenditures by program and activity as will
provide adequate information and control for budgeting purposes as planned and
approved by the Council. Each individual account shall be maintained within its
proper fund and so kept that receipts can be immediately and directly compared
with revenue estimates and expenditures can be related to the authorizing
appropriation. No expenditure shall be posted except to the appropriation for
the function and purpose for which the expense was incurred.
5.   Immediate Payment Authorized. The Council may by resolution authorize the
Clerk to issue checks for immediate payment of amounts due, which if not paid
promptly would result in loss of discount, penalty for late payment or
additional interest cost. Any such payments made shall be reported to the
Council for review and approval with and in the same manner as other claims at
the next meeting following such payment. The resolution authorizing immediate
payment shall specify the type of payment so authorized and may include (but is
not limited to) payment of utility bills, contractual obligations, payroll, and
bond principal and interest.
6.   Utilities. The finance officer shall perform and be responsible for
accounting functions of the municipally owned utilities.
7.08 FINANCIAL REPORTS.
The finance officer shall prepare and file the following financial reports:
1.   Monthly Reports. There shall be submitted to the Council each month a
report showing the activity and status of each fund, program, sub-program, and
activity for the preceding month.
2.   Annual Report. Not later than December 1 of each year there shall be
published an annual report containing a summary for the preceding fiscal year
of all collections and receipts, all accounts due the City, and all
expenditures, the current public debt of the City, and the legal debt limit of
the City for the current fiscal year. The Annual Financial Report shall be
prepared on forms and pursuant to instructions prescribed by the Auditor of
State. Beginning with the Annual Financial Report published by December 1,
2025, each report shall include a list of bonds, notes, or other obligations
issued by the City during the most recently completed fiscal year, and the
applicable lists for other fiscal years beginning on or after July 1, 2024, for
which obligations remain unpaid, payable from any source, including the amount
of the issuance, the project or purpose of the issuance, whether the issuance
was approved at election, eligible to be subject to a petition for an election,
or was exempt from approval at election as the result of statutory exclusions
based on population of the City or amount of the issuance, and identification
of issuances from the fiscal year or prior fiscal years related to the same
project or purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.22)
7.09 SETOFF PROGRAM PROVISIONS.
This section shall establish policies and procedures for the City pursuant to
Section 421.65 of the Code of Iowa, to allow the City to utilize and invoke the
setoff program provisions of the State for collection of debts owed to the City
and for which the City has provided the obligor with an opportunity to contest.
1.   Definitions. The following terms are defined for use in this section:
   A.   “Department” means the Iowa Department of Revenue.
   B.   “Obligor” means a person, not including a public agency, who has been
determined to owe a qualifying debt.
   C.   “Public agency” means a board, commission, department, including the
Department of Revenue, or other administrative office or unit of the State or
any other State entity reported in the Iowa Annual Comprehensive Financial
Report, or a political subdivision of the State, or an office or unit of a
political subdivision. Public agency does include the Clerk of the District
Court as it relates to the collection of a qualifying debt. Public agency does
not include the general assembly or Office of the Governor.
   D.   “Public payment” means any claim a public agency owes to an obligor.
   E.   “Qualifying debt” means any of the following:
      (1)   Any debt, which is assigned to the Department of Health and Human
Services, or which is owed to the Department of Health and Human Services for
unpaid premiums under Section 249A.3(2)(a)(1) of the Code of Iowa, or which
child support services is otherwise attempting to collect, or which foster care
services of the Department of Health and Human Services is attempting to
collect on behalf of a child receiving foster care provided by the Department
of Health and Human Services.
      (2)   Any debt which is in the form of a liquidated sum due, owing, and
payable to the Clerk of the District Court.
      (3)   Any liquidated sum certain, owning and payable to a public agency,
with respect to which the public agency has provided the obligor an opportunity
to protest or challenge the sum in a manner in compliance with applicable law
and due process, and which has been determined as owing through the challenge
or protest, or for which the time period provided by the public agency to
challenge, or protest has expired.
2.   Memorandum of Understanding. The City shall enter into a memorandum of
understanding with the Department which shall outline the program guidelines
for use of the State Setoff Program.
3.   Qualifying Debt. The Clerk shall only certify to the Department qualifying
debt as approved by the Department through the completion of a qualifying debt
questionnaire and for which the City has provided appropriate documentation
showing the City’s legal authority for charging, implementing a fine or fee for
violation of, or imposing costs related to the abatement of certain conditions
when appropriate legal authority exists to the City. The qualifying debt
questionnaire may be updated from time to time as required by the City to add
or remove qualifying debt or as needed by the Department.
4.   Due Process. Prior to submission of a debt to the Department the City
shall provide the obligor due process as outlined in this section prior to the
submission of a debt:
   A.   With respect to the qualifying debt, the City shall provide the obligor
with 15 days’ advance written notice to the obligor’s last-known address. Such
notice shall provide the obligor with a minimum period of 15 days in which they
may file an appeal in writing to the Clerk.
   B.   Upon receipt of a written request for an appeal on a debt to be
submitted to the Setoff Program the Clerk shall schedule a hearing with the
Council for the next regularly scheduled meeting and notify the obligor of the
hearing date and time at least five days in advance of the hearing.
   C.   At the time and date of the hearing, the Council shall hear any
evidence brought forth by the obligor and shall examine the City’s file
regarding the matter. The Council shall make a ruling upon a majority vote of
the members in attendance.
   D.   If the qualifying debt is upheld by the Council and the debt has not
yet been paid by the obligor, the Clerk may certify the delinquency to the
Department pursuant to the Section 421.65 of the Code of Iowa and the
memorandum of understanding between the City and the Department.
CHAPTER 8
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTIONS
 
8.01 Purpose                        8.06 Applications
8.02 Definitions                    8.07 Approval
8.03 Period of Partial Exemption    8.08 Exemption Repealed
8.04 Amounts Eligible for Exemption 8.09 Dual Exemptions Prohibited
8.05 Limitations                    8.10 Speculative Building Exemption
 
8.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a partial exemption from property
taxation of the actual value added to industrial real estate by the new
construction of industrial real estate, research-service facilities,
warehouses, and distribution centers.
8.02 DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Actual value added” means the actual value added as of the first year for
which the exemption is received.
2.   “Distribution center” means a building or structure used primarily for the
storage of goods that are intended for subsequent shipment to retail outlets.
Distribution center does not mean a building or structure used primarily to
store raw agricultural products, used primarily by a manufacturer to store
goods to be used in the manufacturing process, used primarily for the storage
of petroleum products, or used for the retail sale of goods.
3.   “New construction” means new buildings and structures and includes new
buildings and structures that are constructed as additions to existing
buildings and structures. New construction does not include reconstruction of
an existing building or structure that does not constitute complete replacement
of an existing building or structure or refitting of an existing building or
structure unless the reconstruction of an existing building or structure is
required due to economic obsolescence and the reconstruction is necessary to
implement recognized industry standards for the manufacturing and processing of
specific products and the reconstruction is required for the owner of the
building or structure to continue competitively to manufacture or process those
products, which determination shall receive prior approval from the City
Council.
4.   “Research-service facilities” means a building or group of buildings
devoted primarily to research and development activities, including (but not
limited to) the design and production or manufacture of prototype products for
experimental use and corporate research services that do not have a primary
purpose of providing on-site services to the public.
5.   “Warehouse” means a building or structure used as a public warehouse for
the storage of goods pursuant to Chapter 554, Article 7, of the Code of Iowa,
except that it does not mean a building or structure used primarily to store
raw agricultural products or from which goods are sold at retail.
8.03 PERIOD OF PARTIAL EXEMPTION.
The actual value added to industrial real estate by the new construction of
industrial real estate, research-service facilities, warehouses, and
distribution centers is eligible to receive a partial exemption from taxation
for a period of five years. The exemption shall also apply to the acquisition
of or improvement to machinery and equipment assessed as real estate pursuant
to Section 427A.1[1e] of the Code of Iowa, unless the machinery or equipment is
part of the normal replacement or operating process to maintain or expand the
existing operational status.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
8.04 AMOUNTS ELIGIBLE FOR EXEMPTION.
The amount of actual value added, which is eligible to be exempt from taxation,
shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
1.   For the first year, 75 percent.
2.   For the second year, 60 percent.
3.   For the third year, 45 percent.
4.   For the fourth year, 30 percent.
5.   For the fifth year, 15 percent.
8.05 LIMITATIONS.
The granting of the exemption under this chapter for new construction
constituting complete replacement of an existing building or structure shall
not result in the assessed value of the industrial real estate being reduced
below the assessed value of the industrial real estate before the start of the
new construction added.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
8.06 APPLICATIONS.
An application shall be filed for each project resulting in actual value added
for which an exemption is claimed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)
1.   The application for exemption shall be filed by the owner of the property
with the local assessor by February 1 of the assessment year in which the value
added is first assessed for taxation.
2.   Applications for exemption shall be made on forms prescribed by the
Director of Revenue and shall contain information pertaining to the nature of
the improvement, its cost, and other information deemed necessary by the
Director of Revenue.
8.07 APPROVAL.
A person may submit a proposal to the City Council to receive prior approval
for eligibility for a tax exemption on new construction. If the City Council
resolves to consider such proposal, it shall publish notice and hold a public
hearing thereon. Thereafter, at least 30 days after such hearing, the City
Council, by ordinance, may give its prior approval of a tax exemption for new
construction if the new construction is in conformance with City zoning. Such
prior approval shall not entitle the owner to exemption from taxation until the
new construction has been completed and found to be qualified real estate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)
8.08 EXEMPTION REPEALED.
When in the opinion of the City Council continuation of the exemption granted
by this chapter ceases to be of benefit to the City, the City Council may
repeal this chapter, but all existing exemptions shall continue until their
expiration.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.5)
8.09 DUAL EXEMPTIONS PROHIBITED.
A property tax exemption under this chapter shall not be granted if the
property for which the exemption is claimed has received any other property tax
exemption authorized by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.6)
8.10 SPECULATIVE BUILDING EXEMPTION.
1.   A tax exemption of 100 percent of the taxes assessed per year shall be
allowed for the assessment year in which the building is first assessed for
taxation or for the years in which reconstruction on renovation first adds
value and for all subsequent years until the property is leased or sold or for
a period of five assessment years or until the exemption is terminated by
ordinance of the Council. If the shell building is leased or sold, the portion
of the building which has been leased or sold shall not be entitled to an
exemption.
2.   An application shall be filed under Section 427.B94 of the Code of Iowa
for each project for which an exemption is claimed. Upon the sale of the shell
building, the shell building shall be considered new construction for purposes
of Section 427.B(1) of the Code of Iowa and this chapter.
3.   The Council shall grant an exemption under the subsection only to a
community development organization as defined in 427.1(27a) of the Code of
Iowa, a not-for-profit cooperative association under Chapter 499 of the Code of
Iowa and for-profit entities for speculative purposes as provided in Section
427.1(27) of the Code of Iowa.
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Industrial Property Tax Exemptions in
the City and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED NAME OF AREA
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Industrial Property Tax Exemptions in
the City and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED           NAME OF AREA
727           March 12, 1990    Established 1990 Industrial Park TIF District
739           December 16, 1990 Corrected the legal description in Ord. 727
935           May 27, 2000      Added South Industrial Park (Lary Farm) to Ord.
                                727 and 739
942           October 2, 2000   Added Family Dollar site and Prairie Creek Golf
                                Course to Ord. 727, 739, and 935
971           July 17, 2002     Added Prairie Creek Center to Ord. 727, 739,
                                935, and 942
997           August 21, 2004   West Platt Corridor TIF District, including
                                Downtown, B-2 Zone
1018          July 26, 2006     Added Sunshine School property to territory of
                                Ord. 997
1026          July 26, 2006     Added Walmart Subdivision to Ord. 727, 739, 935
                                942, and 971
CHAPTER 10
URBAN RENEWAL
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances and resolutions not codified herein, and
specifically saved from repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal
Areas in the City and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE/     ADOPTED NAME OF AREA
RESOLUTION NO.
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances and resolutions not codified herein, and specifically
saved from repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal Areas in the
City and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE/     ADOPTED           NAME OF AREA
RESOLUTION NO.
727            March 12, 1990    Industrial Park TIF
739            January 9, 1991   Corrected legal description Ord. 727
851            January 16, 1995  Amendment
910            November 21, 1998 Downtown Business District
912            December 21, 1998 Amendment #6
931            March 25, 2000    West Platt Street Urban Renewal
933            May 8, 2000       Repeal Ord. 931
935            May 27, 2000      Amend 727 and 739
942            October 2, 2000   Amend 727, 739, and 935
945            February 15, 2001 1990 Maquoketa Urban Renewal
971            July 1, 2002      Amend 727, 739, 935, 942
997            August 16, 2004   West Platt Corridor
1018           July 17, 2006     Amend Ord. 997
1026           July 17, 2006     Amend 727, 739, 935, 942, and 971
1151           March 4, 2019     Amend 727, 739, 910, 912, 933, 942, 945, 971,
                                 997, 1018, and 1026
1171           July 15, 2020     Amended 3 Restated
Res. 2020-33   June 2, 2020      Restated Unified Urban Renewal
Res. 2020-75   June 2, 2020      Amendment Restated Unified Urban Renewal
Res. 2020-34   December 19, 2020 Western Avenue Urban Renewal
1171           July 6, 2020      Amendment No. 3 to the Maquoketa Amended and
                                 Restated Unified Urban Renewal Plan
1187           December 20, 2021 Urban Renewal Area (2021 Parcels)
CHAPTER 11
URBAN REVITALIZATION
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted designating Urban Revitalization Areas in the City
and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED NAME OF AREA
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted designating Urban Revitalization Areas in the City
and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED           NAME OF AREA
658           March 3, 1986     Downtown Business Revitalization Area
722           November 20, 1989 Designate Urban Revite Plan
728           January 4, 2000   Amend Chapter 29 and Ord. 894 and adopting
                                replacement schedule
967           June 3, 2002      Replace Chapter 29
1205          April 17, 2022    2023 City-Wide Urban Revitalization Area
CHAPTER 13
MAYOR
 
13.01 Term of Office    13.04 Compensation
13.02 Powers and Duties 13.05 Voting
13.03 Appointments
 
13.01 TERM OF OFFICE.
The Mayor is elected for a term of two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
13.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Mayor are as follows:
1.   Chief Executive Officer. Act as the chief executive officer of the City
and presiding officer of the Council, supervise all departments of the City,
except for supervisory duties delegated to the City Manager, give direction to
department heads concerning the functions of the departments, and have the
power to examine all functions of the municipal departments, their records and
to call for special reports from department heads at any time.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
2.   Proclamation of Emergency. Have authority to take command of the police
and govern the City by proclamation, upon making a determination that a time of
emergency or public danger exists. Within the City limits, the Mayor has all
the powers conferred upon the Sheriff to suppress disorders.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[2])
3.   Special Meetings. Call special meetings of the Council when the Mayor
deems such meetings necessary to the interests of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
4.   Mayor’s Veto. Sign, veto, or take no action on an ordinance, amendment, or
resolution passed by the Council. The Mayor may veto an ordinance, amendment,
or resolution within 14 days after passage. The Mayor shall explain the reasons
for the veto in a written message to the Council at the time of the veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.5 and 380.6[2])
5.   Reports to Council. Make such oral or written reports to the Council as
required. These reports shall concern municipal affairs generally, the
municipal departments, and recommendations suitable for Council action.
6.   Negotiations. Represent the City in all negotiations properly entered into
in accordance with law or ordinance. The Mayor shall not represent the City
where this duty is specifically delegated to another officer by law, ordinance,
or Council direction.
7.   Contracts. Whenever authorized by the Council, sign contracts on behalf of
the City.
8.   Professional Services. Upon order of the Council, secure for the City such
specialized and professional services not already available to the City. In
executing the order of the Council, the Mayor shall act in accordance with this
Code of Ordinances and the laws of the State.
9.   Licenses and Permits. Sign all licenses and permits that have been granted
by the Council, except those designated by law or ordinance to be issued by
another municipal officer.
10.   Nuisances. Issue written order for removal, at public expense, any
nuisance for which no person can be found responsible and liable.
11.   Absentee Officer. Make appropriate provision that duties of any absentee
officer be carried on during such absence.
13.03 APPOINTMENTS.
The Mayor shall appoint the following officials:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
1.   Mayor Pro Tem
2.   Board of Adjustment
3.   Library Board of Trustees
4.   Utility Board of Trustees
5.   Historic Preservation Commission
6.   Tree Board
7.   Property Maintenance Board
8.   Airport Advisory Board
13.04 COMPENSATION.
The salary of the Mayor is $100.00 for each Council meeting attended, but in no
event shall the Mayor be paid more than $2,800.00 in any one year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
13.05 VOTING.
The Mayor is not a member of the Council and shall not vote as a member of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
CHAPTER 14
MAYOR PRO TEM
 
14.01 Vice President of Council 14.03 Voting Rights
14.02 Powers and Duties         14.04 Compensation
 
14.01 VICE PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
The Mayor shall appoint a member of the Council as Mayor Pro Tem, who shall
serve as vice president of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
14.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
Except for the limitations otherwise provided herein, the Mayor Pro Tem shall
perform the duties of the Mayor in cases of absence or inability of the Mayor
to perform such duties. In the exercise of the duties of the office the Mayor
Pro Tem shall not have power to appoint, employ, or discharge from employment
officers or employees that the Mayor has the power to appoint, employ, or
discharge without the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
14.03 VOTING RIGHTS.
The Mayor Pro Tem shall have the right to vote as a member of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
14.04 COMPENSATION.
If the Mayor Pro Tem performs the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor’s
absence or disability for a continuous period of 15 days or more, the Mayor Pro
Tem may be paid for that period the compensation as determined by the Council,
based upon the Mayor Pro Tem’s performance of the Mayor’s duties and upon the
compensation of the Mayor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 15
CITY COUNCIL
 
15.01 Number and Term of Council 15.04 Council Meetings
15.02 Powers and Duties          15.05 Appointments
15.03 Exercise of Power          15.06 Compensation
 
15.01 NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of two Council members elected at large and one Council
member from each of five wards as established by the Code of Ordinances,
elected for overlapping terms of four years.
15.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Council include, but are not limited to the
following:
1.   General. All powers of the City are vested in the Council except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
2.   Wards. By ordinance, the Council may divide the City into wards based upon
population, change the boundaries of wards, eliminate wards, or create new
wards.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[7])
3.   Fiscal Authority. The Council shall apportion and appropriate all funds,
and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls, and claims, and order
payment thereof. It shall make all assessments for the cost of street
improvements, sidewalks, sewers, and other work, improvement, or repairs that
may be specially assessed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1], 384.16, and 384.38[1])
4.   Public Improvements. The Council shall make all orders for the
construction of any improvements, bridges, or buildings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
5.   Contracts. The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts. No contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the City unless
approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 26)
6.   Employees. The Council shall authorize, by resolution, the number, duties,
term of office, and compensation of employees or officers not otherwise
provided for by State law or the Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
7.   Setting Compensation for Elected Officers. By ordinance, the Council shall
prescribe the compensation of the Mayor, Council members, and other elected
City officers, but a change in the compensation of the Mayor does not become
effective during the term in which the change is adopted, and the Council shall
not adopt such an ordinance changing the compensation of any elected officer
during the months of November and December in the year of a regular City
election. A change in the compensation of Council members becomes effective for
all Council members at the beginning of the term of the Council members elected
at the election next following the change in compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
15.03 EXERCISE OF POWER.
The Council shall exercise a power only by the passage of a motion, a
resolution, an amendment, or an ordinance in the following manner:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[1])
1.   Action by Council. Passage of an ordinance, amendment, or resolution
requires a majority vote of all of the members of the Council. Passage of a
motion requires a majority vote of a quorum of the Council. A resolution must
be passed to spend public funds in excess of $100,000.00 on a public
improvement project, or to accept public improvements and facilities upon their
completion. Each Council member’s vote on a measure must be recorded. A measure
that fails to receive sufficient votes for passage shall be considered
defeated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.4)
2.   Overriding Mayor’s Veto. Within 30 days after the Mayor’s veto, the
Council may pass the measure again by a vote of not less than two-thirds of all
of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
3.   Measures Become Effective. Measures passed by the Council become effective
in one of the following ways:
A.   An ordinance or amendment signed by the Mayor becomes effective when the
ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a subsequent
effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1a])
B.   A resolution signed by the Mayor becomes effective immediately upon
signing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1b])
C.   A motion becomes effective immediately upon passage of the motion by the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1c])
D.   If the Mayor vetoes an ordinance, amendment, or resolution and the Council
repasses the measure after the Mayor’s veto, a resolution becomes effective
immediately upon repassage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes a law when
the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a subsequent
effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
E.   If the Mayor takes no action on an ordinance, amendment, or resolution, a
resolution becomes effective 14 days after the date of passage, and an
ordinance or amendment becomes law when the ordinance or a summary of the
ordinance is published, but not sooner than 14 days after the date of passage,
unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or
amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[3])
“All of the members of the Council” refers to all of the seats of the Council
including a vacant seat and a seat where the member is absent, but does not
include a seat where the Council member declines to vote by reason of a
conflict of interest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.1[a])
15.04 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
Procedures for giving notice of meetings of the Council and other provisions
regarding the conduct of Council meetings are contained in Section
5.06 of this Code of Ordinances. Additional particulars relating to Council
meetings are the following:
1.   Regular Meetings. The regular meetings of the Council are on the first and
third Monday of each month at 6:00 p.m. at Council Chambers at City Hall. If
such day falls on a legal holiday, the meeting is held the following day at the
same time unless a different day or time is determined by the Council.
2.   Special Meetings. Special meetings shall be held upon call of the Mayor or
upon the request of a majority of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
3.   Quorum. A majority of all Council members is a quorum.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[1])
4.   Rules of Procedure. The Council shall determine its own rules and maintain
records of its proceedings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
5.   Compelling Attendance. Any three members of the Council can compel the
attendance of the absent members at any regular, adjourned, or duly called
meeting, by serving a written notice upon the absent members to attend at once.
15.05 APPOINTMENTS.
The Council shall appoint the following officials and prescribe their powers,
duties, compensation, and term of office:
1.   City Clerk
2.   City Attorney
3.   Airport Commission
4.   Planning and Zoning Commission
5.   Civil Service Commission
6.   Parks Commission
7.   Building Code Board of Appeals
8.   Downtown Incentive Board
9.   Housing Authority
10.   Housing Rehabilitation Committee
11.   Airport Advisory Board
15.06 COMPENSATION.
The salary of each Council member is $40.00 for each meeting attended, but in
no event shall any Council member be paid more than $1,200.00 in one calender
year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 16
CITY CLERK
 
16.01 Appointment and Compensation 16.08 Records
16.02 Powers and Duties: General   16.09 Attendance at Meetings
16.03 Publication of Minutes       16.10 Licenses and Permits
16.04 Recording Measures           16.11 Notification of Appointments
16.05 Other Publications           16.12 Elections
16.06 Authentication               16.13 City Seal
16.07 Certification
 
16.01 APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
The City Manager is the ex officio City Clerk and has the duties, powers, and
functions prescribed in this chapter, by State law, and other ordinances of the
City. The Council shall specify by resolution the compensation to be paid for
such services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3])
16.02 POWERS AND DUTIES: GENERAL.
The Clerk (or, in the Clerk’s absence or inability to act, the Deputy Clerk)
has the powers and duties as provided in this chapter, this Code of Ordinances,
and the law.
16.03 PUBLICATION OF MINUTES.
Within 15 days following a regular or special meeting of the Council, the Clerk
shall cause the minutes of the proceedings of the Council, including the total
expenditure from each City fund, to be delivered to a newspaper of general
circulation in the City for publication. The publication shall include a list
of all claims allowed and a summary of all receipts and shall show the gross
amount of the claims.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(6))
(Section 16.03 – Ord._1230 – Oct. 24 Supp.)
16.04 RECORDING MEASURES.
The Clerk shall promptly record each measure considered by the Council and
record a statement with the measure, where applicable, indicating whether the
Mayor signed, vetoed, or took no action on the measure, and whether the measure
was repassed after the Mayor’s veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[1 and 2])
16.05 OTHER PUBLICATIONS.
The Clerk shall cause to be published all ordinances, enactments, proceedings,
and official notices requiring publication as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3)
1.   Time. If notice of an election, hearing, or other official action is
required by this Code of Ordinances or law, the notice must be published at
least once, not less than four or more than 20 days before the date of the
election, hearing, or other action, unless otherwise provided by law.
2.   Manner of Publication. A publication required by this Code of Ordinances
or law must be in a newspaper published at least once weekly and having general
circulation in the City.
16.06 AUTHENTICATION.
The Clerk shall authenticate all measures except motions with the Clerk’s
signature, certifying the time and manner of publication when required.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[4])
16.07 CERTIFICATION.
The Clerk shall certify all measures establishing any zoning district, building
lines, or fire limits and a plat showing the district, lines, or limits to the
recorder of the County containing the affected parts of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.11)
16.08 RECORDS.
The Clerk shall maintain the specified City records in the following manner:
1.   Ordinances and Codes. Maintain copies of all effective City ordinances and
codes for public use.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[5])
2.   Custody. Have custody and be responsible for the safekeeping of all
writings or documents in which the City is a party in interest unless otherwise
specifically directed by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
3.   Maintenance. Maintain all City records and documents (or accurate
reproductions) for at least five years except that ordinances, resolutions,
Council proceedings, records, and documents (or accurate reproductions)
relating to the issuance, cancellation, transfer, redemption, or replacement of
public bonds or obligations shall be kept for at least 11 years following the
final maturity of the bonds or obligations. Ordinances, resolutions, Council
proceedings, records, and documents (or accurate reproductions) relating to
real property transactions shall be maintained permanently.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3 and 5])
4.   Provide Copy. Furnish upon request to any municipal officer a copy of any
record, paper, or public document under the Clerk’s control when it may be
necessary to such officer in the discharge of such officer’s duty; furnish a
copy to any citizen when requested upon payment of the fee set by Council
resolution; under the direction of the Mayor or other authorized officer, affix
the seal of the City to those public documents or instruments that by this Code
of Ordinances are required to be attested by the affixing of the seal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4 and 5] and 380.7[5])
5.   Filing of Communications. Keep and file all communications and petitions
directed to the Council or to the City generally. The Clerk shall endorse
thereon the action of the Council taken upon matters considered in such
communications and petitions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
16.09 ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
The Clerk shall attend all regular and special Council meetings and, at the
direction of the Council, the Clerk shall attend meetings of committees,
boards, and commissions. The Clerk shall record and preserve a correct record
of the proceedings of such meetings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
16.10 LICENSES AND PERMITS.
The Clerk shall issue or revoke licenses and permits when authorized by this
Code of Ordinances, and keep a record of licenses and permits issued which
shall show date of issuance, license or permit number, official receipt number,
name of person to whom issued, term of license or permit, and purpose for which
issued.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
16.11 NOTIFICATION OF APPOINTMENTS.
The Clerk shall inform all persons appointed by the Mayor or Council to offices
in the City government of their positions and the time at which they shall
assume the duties of their offices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
16.12 ELECTIONS.
The Clerk shall perform the duties relating to elections in accordance with
Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa.
16.13 CITY SEAL.
The City seal is in the custody of the Clerk and shall be attached by the Clerk
to all transcripts, orders, and certificates that it may be necessary or proper
to authenticate. The City seal is circular in form, in the center of which are
the words “SEAL” and around the margin of which are the words “CITY OF
MAQUOKETA.”
CHAPTER 17
CITY TREASURER
 
17.01 Appointment  17.03 Duties of Treasurer
17.02 Compensation
 
17.01 APPOINTMENT.
The City Clerk is the Treasurer and performs all functions required of the
position of Treasurer.
17.02 COMPENSATION.
The Clerk receives no additional compensation for performing the duties of the
Treasurer.
17.03 DUTIES OF TREASURER.
The duties of the Treasurer are as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Custody of Funds. Be responsible for the safe custody of all funds of the
City in the manner provided by law and Council direction.
2.   Record of Fund. Keep the record of each fund separate.
3.   Record Receipts. Keep an accurate record of all money or securities
received by the Treasurer on behalf of the City and specify the date, from
whom, and for what purpose received.
4.   Record Disbursements. Keep an accurate account of all disbursements,
money, or property, specifying date, to whom, and from what fund paid.
5.   Special Assessments. Keep a separate account of all money received by the
Treasurer from special assessments.
6.   Deposit Funds. Upon receipt of moneys to be held in the Treasurer’s
custody and belonging to the City, deposit the same in depositories selected by
the Council.
7.   Reconciliation. Reconcile depository statements with the Treasurer’s books
and certify monthly to the Council the balance of cash and investments of each
fund and amounts received and disbursed.
8.   Debt Service. Keep a register of all bonds outstanding and record all
payments of interest and principal.
9.   Other Duties. Perform such other duties as specified by the Council by
resolution or ordinance.
CHAPTER 18
CITY ATTORNEY
 
18.01 Appointment and Compensation 18.05 Review and Comment
18.02 Attorney for City            18.06 Provide Legal Opinion
18.03 Power of Attorney            18.07 Attendance at Council Meetings
18.04 Ordinance Preparation        18.08 Prepare Documents
 
18.01 APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Attorney to serve at the
discretion of the Council. The City Attorney shall receive such compensation as
established by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.02 ATTORNEY FOR CITY.
The City Attorney shall act as attorney for the City in all matters affecting
the City’s interest and appear on behalf of the City before any court,
tribunal, commission, or board. The City Attorney shall prosecute or defend all
actions and proceedings when so requested by the Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.03 POWER OF ATTORNEY.
The City Attorney shall sign the name of the City to all appeal bonds and to
all other bonds or papers of any kind that may be essential to the prosecution
of any cause in court, and when so signed the City shall be bound upon the
same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.04 ORDINANCE PREPARATION.
The City Attorney shall prepare those ordinances that the Council may desire
and direct to be prepared and report to the Council upon all such ordinances
before their final passage by the Council and publication.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.05 REVIEW AND COMMENT.
The City Attorney shall, upon request, make a report to the Council giving an
opinion on all contracts, documents, resolutions, or ordinances submitted to or
coming under the City Attorney’s notice.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.06 PROVIDE LEGAL OPINION.
The City Attorney shall give advice or a written legal opinion on City
contracts and all questions of law relating to City matters submitted by the
City Manager and Police Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.07 ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
The City Attorney shall attend meetings of the Council at the request of the
Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.08 PREPARE DOCUMENTS.
The City Attorney shall, upon request, formulate drafts for contracts, forms,
and other writings that may be required for the use of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
CHAPTER 19
CITY MANAGER
 
19.01 Appointment                           19.03 Transfer of Powers and Duties
19.02 Powers and Duties of the City Manager
 
19.01 APPOINTMENT.
The City Manager shall be appointed by a five-two vote of the Council at a
regular meeting thereof, and when so appointed they shall hold office during
the pleasure of said body and shall be subject to removal from office by a
five-two vote of all members of the Council at any time. Removal of the City
Manager shall proceed as set forth in Section 372.15 of the Code of Iowa as it
may from time to time be amended.
19.02 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE CITY MANAGER.
1.   The City Manager shall have sole power to appoint, employ, or discharge
all persons directly engaged in the operating, maintenance, clerical, or
construction departments of said systems and shall recommend to the Council the
compensation to be paid such employees.
2.   The City Manager shall manage and control the sewer system of the City and
issue permits to duly authorized persons to make lateral connections therewith
or repairs and extension thereto.
3.   The City Manager shall supervise the performance of all contents for work
to be done in connection with the public utilities, make all purchases of
material and supplies needed by the City, reporting the same detail to the
Council and see that such material and supplies are received and are of the
quality and character specified.
4.   The City Manager shall see that all the provisions of this Code, rules and
regulations relating to governing the installation, maintenance, operation, and
extension of the public utilities, are complied with and that the franchise
rights of privately owned public utilities operating within the City are not
exceeded or abridged.
5.   The City Manager shall see that all persons required to do so shall secure
the licenses provided by law or the provisions of this Code and shall collect
the fees therefor and deposit the same.
6.   The City Manager shall keep the Council fully advised of the financial
conditions as well as other conditions of the City and make recommendations
concerning future needs. The City Manager shall be the Chief Accounting and
Financial Officer of the City. The City Manager may appoint financial duties to
an appointee.
7.   The City Manager shall have general supervision of the public grounds and
buildings and shall keep the Council advised of the condition and needs of the
same.
8.   The City Manager shall perform all of the duties of City Clerk as provided
by law and the provisions of this Code. The City Manager may appoint a designee
to perform duties of Clerk as required.
9.   The City Manager shall perform such other services of a managerial,
supervisory, or clerical nature as the Council of them, and when required to
perform services other than herein enumerated they shall receive an additional
compensation in such amount as the Council may deem appropriate.
10.   The City Manager shall be empowered to require any appointee or employee
of the City whose general duties are not wholly inconsistent with the work to
be performed, to render service in any Department of Public Works under their
supervision, or to render service in department not under their supervision
when occasion requires.
11.   Supervise the official conduct of all officers of the City whom the City
Manager has appointed, and take active control of the Fire Department.
12.   Employ, reclassify, or discharge all employees under the City Manager’s
supervision and fix their compensation, subject to civil service provisions and
Chapter 70 of the Code of Iowa.
13.   Supervise the construction, improvement, repair, maintenance, and
management of all City property, capital improvements, and undertakings of the
City, including the making and preservation of all surveys, maps, drawings,
specifications, and estimates for capital improvements, except property,
improvements, and undertakings managed by a utility board of trustees.
14.   Cooperate with any administrative agency or City board or commission.
15.   The City Manager shall supervise the performance of the Police Chief and
shall keep the Council fully advised on the Police Chief’s operation of the
Police Department.
19.03 TRANSFER OF POWERS AND DUTIES.
1.   As the duties of the position of City Manager have been extracted from
duties and responsibilities assigned to the Mayor by the Code of Iowa, in the
absence of a City Manager for a period of time greater than two weeks, the
overall management and control of the City reverts to the Mayor. The Mayor will
be assisted in these responsibilities by the following personnel and by
whatever delegation of additional responsibilities the Mayor may convey in
writing to full-time City employees.
2.   The Mayor will normally retain the following powers and responsibilities:
   A.   Day to day operation of City Hall and the general offices and buildings
of the City.
   B.   Supervision of the official conduct of all officers of the City and
department heads including Fire Chief, Police Chief, and Director of Public
Works.
   C.   Authority to discharge, reprimand, suspend, or reclassify an employee
upon conferring with the appropriate supervisor and the Personnel Committee
when needed.
   D.   Authority to supervise construction, repair, maintenance, improvement,
and management of all City property including preservation of all surveys,
maps, plans, drawings, and estimates for capital improvements.
   E.   The power to supervise employees of the City and to require any
employee to render service in any department of the City.
   F.   The authority and power to employ, reclassify, or discharge all
employees of the City and fix compensation subject to civil service provisions
in Chapter 400 of the Code of Iowa.
3.   Management and control of the sewer and control of the sewer system shall
be under the authority and responsibility of the Alliance Water Resource, Inc.
Superintendent assigned to the City.
4.   The power to issue permits to make connections with the sewer system or
repairs or extensions of the sewer system shall be the authority and
responsibility of the Clerk or Deputy Clerk.
5.   The duty to purchase materials and supplies needed by City and the duty to
report purchases in detail to the Council and see that purchased materials and
supplies are received and are of the quality and character specified shall be
the duty and responsibility of the Deputy Clerk after conferring with the
appropriate department head.
6.   Duty to oversee that the provisions of this Code and rules and regulations
relating to the installation, maintenance, and operation, and extension of
public utilities are complied with, and that franchise rights of privately
owned public utilities are not exceeded or abridged, shall be the authority and
responsibility of the Deputy Clerk and the City Attorney when required.
7.   The duty to see that all persons required to do so have a license, and
that those persons pay the required fee, and the duty to collect the fee shall
be the authority and responsibility of the Deputy Clerk.
8.   The duty to keep the Council fully advised as to the financial condition
of the City shall be the authority and responsibility of the Financial Officer.
9.   The general supervision of City grounds and buildings and the duty to keep
the Council informed of the condition of the City grounds and buildings shall
be the authority and responsibility of the Director of Public Works.
   A.   The duty to perform all the duties of the Clerk as provided by the Code
of Iowa and the provisions of this Code shall be the authority and
responsibility of the Deputy Clerk. The duties of the Deputy Clerk shall
include the obligation to perform other managerial, supervisor, or clerical
services as the Mayor may require.
   B.   Supervision of the performance of all contracts in connection with the
Public Utilities shall be the responsibility of the appropriate department head
with assistance from the City’s engineering firm.
   C.   The duty to attest to and certify official City documents are conveyed
to the Deputy Clerk.
   D.   The duties of inspecting and approving building permits shall be the
responsibility of the Public Works Director with assistance from the City’s
local government consultant.
CHAPTER 20
LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
 
20.01 Public Library                   20.07 Nonresident Use
20.02 Library Trustees                 20.08 Expenditures
20.03 Qualifications of Trustees       20.09 Annual Report
20.04 Organization of the Board        20.10 Injury to Books or Property
20.05 Powers and Duties                20.11 Theft
20.06 Contracting with Other Libraries 20.12 Notice Posted
 
20.01 PUBLIC LIBRARY.
The public library for the City is known as the Maquoketa Public Library. It is
referred to in this chapter as the Library.
20.02 LIBRARY TRUSTEES.
The Board of Trustees of the Library, hereinafter referred to as the Board,
consists of nine resident trustees and one nonresident trustees. All resident
members are to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Council. The
nonresident member is to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the
County Board of Supervisors.
20.03 QUALIFICATIONS OF TRUSTEES.
All resident members of the Board shall be bona fide citizens and residents of
the City. The nonresident member of the Board shall be a bona fide citizen and
resident of the unincorporated County. Members shall be over the age of 18
years.
20.04 ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD.
The organization of the Board shall be as follows:
1.   Term of Office. All appointments to the Board shall be for six years,
except to fill vacancies. Each term shall commence on July 1. Appointments
shall be made every two years of one-third the total number or as near as
possible, to stagger the terms.
2.   Vacancies. The position of any resident Trustee shall be vacated if such
member moves permanently from the City. The position of a nonresident Trustee
shall be vacated if such member moves permanently from the County or into the
City. The position of any Trustee shall be deemed vacated if such member is
absent from six consecutive regular meetings of the Board, except in the case
of sickness or temporary absence from the City or County. Vacancies in the
Board shall be filled in the same manner as an original appointment except that
the new Trustee shall fill out the unexpired term for which the appointment is
made.
3.   Compensation. Trustees shall receive no compensation for their services.
20.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Board shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
1.   Officers. To meet and elect from its members a President, a Secretary, and
such other officers as it deems necessary. The City Treasurer shall serve as
Board Treasurer, but shall not be a member of the Board.
2.   Physical Plant. To have charge, control, and supervision of the Library,
its appurtenances, fixtures, and rooms containing the same.
3.   Charge of Affairs. To direct and control all affairs of the Library.
4.   Hiring of Personnel. To employ a Library Director, and authorize the
Library Director to employ such assistants and employees as may be necessary
for the proper management of the Library, and fix their compensation; provided,
however, prior to such employment, the compensation of the Library Director,
assistants, and employees shall have been fixed and approved by a majority of
the members of the Board voting in favor thereof.
5.   Removal of Personnel. To remove the Library Director, by a two-thirds vote
of the Board, and provide procedures for the removal of the assistants or
employees for misdemeanor, incompetence, or inattention to duty, subject
however, to the provisions of Chapter 35C of the Code of Iowa.
6.   Purchases. To select, or authorize the Library Director to select, and
make purchases of books, pamphlets, magazines, periodicals, papers, maps,
journals, other Library materials, furniture, fixtures, stationery, and
supplies for the Library within budgetary limits set by the Board.
7.   Use by Nonresidents. To authorize the use of the Library by nonresidents
and to fix charges therefor unless a contract for free service exists.
8.   Rules and Regulations. To make and adopt, amend, modify, or repeal rules
and regulations, not inconsistent with this Code of Ordinances and the law, for
the care, use, government, and management of the Library and the business of
the Board, fixing and enforcing penalties for violations.
9.   Expenditures. To have exclusive control of the expenditure of all funds
allocated for Library purposes by the Council, and of all moneys available by
gift or otherwise for the erection of Library buildings, and of all other
moneys belonging to the Library including fines and rentals collected under the
rules of the Board.
10.   Gifts. To accept gifts of real property, personal property, or mixed
property, and devises, and bequests, including trust funds; to take the title
to said property in the name of the Library; to execute deeds and bills of sale
for the conveyance of said property; and to expend the funds received by them
from such gifts, for the improvement of the Library.
11.   Enforce the Performance of Conditions on Gifts. To enforce the
performance of conditions on gifts, donations, devises, and bequests accepted
by the City by action against the Council.
12.   Record of Proceedings. To keep a record of its proceedings.
13.   County Historical Association. To have authority to make agreements with
the local County historical association where such exists, and to set apart the
necessary room and to care for such articles as may come into the possession of
the association. The Trustees are further authorized to purchase necessary
receptacles and materials for the preservation and protection of such articles
as are in their judgment of a historical and educational nature and pay for the
same out of funds allocated for Library purposes.
20.06 CONTRACTING WITH OTHER LIBRARIES.
The Board has power to contract with other libraries in accordance with the
following:
1.   Contracting. The Board may contract with any other boards of trustees of
free public libraries, with any other city, school corporation, private or
semiprivate organization, institution of higher learning, township, or County,
or with the trustees of any County library district for the use of the Library
by their respective residents.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.5 and Ch. 28E)
2.   Termination. Such a contract may be terminated at any time by mutual
consent of the contracting parties. It also may be terminated by a majority
vote of the electors represented by either of the contracting parties. Such a
termination proposition shall be submitted to the electors by the governing
body of a contracting party on a written petition of not less than five percent
in number of the electors who voted for governor in the territory of the
contracting party at the last general election. The petition must be presented
to the governing body not less than 40 days before the election. The
proposition may be submitted at any election provided by law which is held in
the territory of the party seeking to terminate the contract.
20.07 NONRESIDENT USE.
The Board may authorize the use of the Library by persons not residents of the
City or County in any one or more of the following ways:
1.   Lending. By lending the books or other materials of the Library to
nonresidents on the same terms and conditions as to residents of the City, or
County, or upon payment of a special nonresident Library fee.
2.   Depository. By establishing depositories of Library books or other
materials to be loaned to nonresidents.
3.   Bookmobiles. By establishing bookmobiles or a traveling library so that
books or other Library materials may be loaned to nonresidents.
4.   Branch Library. By establishing branch libraries for lending books or
other Library materials to nonresidents.
20.08 EXPENDITURES.
All money appropriated by the Council for the operation and maintenance of the
Library shall be set aside in an account for the Library. Expenditures shall be
paid for only on orders of the Board, signed by its President and Secretary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.20 and 392.5)
20.09 ANNUAL REPORT.
The Board shall make a report to the Council immediately after the close of the
fiscal year. This report shall contain statements as to the condition of the
Library, the number of books added, the number circulated, the amount of fines
collected, and the amount of money expended in the maintenance of the Library
during the year, together with such further information as may be required by
the Council.
20.10 INJURY TO BOOKS OR PROPERTY.
It is unlawful for a person willfully, maliciously or wantonly to tear, deface,
mutilate, injure or destroy, in whole or in part, any newspaper, periodical,
book, map, pamphlet, chart, picture, or other property belonging to the Library
or reading room.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
20.11 THEFT.
No person shall take possession or control of property of the Library with the
intent to deprive the Library thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
20.12 NOTICE POSTED.
There shall be posted in clear public view within the Library notices informing
the public of the following:
1.   Failure to Return. Failure to return Library materials for two months or
more after the date the person agreed to return the Library materials, or
failure to return Library equipment for one month or more after the date the
person agreed to return the Library equipment, is evidence of intent to deprive
the owner, provided a reasonable attempt, including the mailing by restricted
certified mail of notice that such material or equipment is overdue and
criminal actions will be taken, has been made to reclaim the materials or
equipment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.5)
2.   Detention and Search. Persons concealing Library materials may be detained
and searched pursuant to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 808.12)
CHAPTER 21
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
 
21.01 Commission Created                     21.05 Compensation
21.02 Planning and Zoning Commission Members 21.06 Duties and Powers
21.03 Term of Office                         21.07 Expenses, Money Appropriated
21.04 Vacancies
 
21.01 COMMISSION CREATED.
Under and by virtue of the authority conferred by Chapter 414.6 of the Code of
Iowa, 1987, a City Planning and Zoning Commission is hereby created and
established.
21.02 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION MEMBERS.  
The Commission shall consist of seven members, who shall be citizens of the
City and qualified by knowledge or experience to act in matters pertaining to
the development of a City plan and who shall not hold any elective office in
the municipal government. The Council shall appoint members of the Commission.
21.03 TERM OF OFFICE.  
The term of office of the members of said Commission shall be five years.
21.04 VACANCIES.
If any vacancy exist on said Commission caused by resignation, or otherwise,
the Council shall appoint a successor for the residue of said term.
21.05 COMPENSATION.
All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, except their
actual expenses, which shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
21.06 DUTIES AND POWERS.
1.   The Commission shall choose annually at its first regular meeting one of
its members to act as Chairperson of this Commission and another as Vice-
Chairperson, who shall perform all the duties of the Chairperson during their
absence or disability.
2.   The Commission shall adopt such rules and regulations governing its
organization and procedure as it may deem necessary.
3.   The Commission shall each year make a report to the Mayor and Council of
its proceedings, with a full statement of its receipts, and disbursements on
the progress of its work during the preceding fiscal year.
4.   Subject to the limitations contained in this chapter as to the expenditure
of funds, it may appoint such assistants as it may deem necessary and prescribe
and define their respective duties and fix and regulate the compensation to be
paid to the several persons employed by it.
5.   It shall have full power and authority to make or cause to be made such
surveys, studies, maps, plans, or charts of the whole or any portion of the
municipality or of any land outside thereof, which in the opinion of the
Commission, bears relation to a comprehensive plan and shall bring to the
attention of the Council and may publish its studies and recommendations.
6.   No statuary, memorial, or work of art in a public place, and no public
building, bridge, viaduct, street fixtures, public structure, or appurtenances,
shall be located or erected, or site therefor obtained, nor shall any permit be
issued by any department of the municipal government for the erection or
location thereof until and unless the design and proposed location of any such
improvement shall have been submitted to the Commission and its recommendations
shall not act as a stay upon action for any such improvement when such
Commission, after 30 days written notice requesting such recommendations, shall
have failed to file same.
7.   All plans, plats, or re-plats of subdivisions or resubivisions of land
embraced in said Municipality or adjacent thereto, laid out in lots or plats
with the streets, alleys, or other portions of the same intended to be
dedicated to the public in such municipality, shall first be submitted to the
Planning and Zoning Commission and its recommendations obtained before approval
by the Council.
8.   No plan for a street, park, parkway, boulevard, trafficway, river front,
or other public improvement affecting the City plan, shall be finally approved
by the municipality or the character or location thereof determined, unless
such proposal shall first have been submitted to the Commission and the latter
shall have had 30 days within which to file its recommendations thereon.
9.   The Commission shall have full, complete, and exclusive authority to
expend for and on behalf of the City all sums of money appropriated as
hereinafter provided, and to use and expend all gifts, donations, or payments
whatsoever which are received by the said City for City plan purposes.
10.   The Commission shall have no power to contract debts beyond the amount of
its income for the present year.
11.   For the purpose of making a comprehensive plan for the physical
development of the municipality, the Commission shall make careful and
comprehensive studies of present conditions and future growth of the
municipality and with due regard to its relation to neighboring territory. The
plan shall be made with the general purpose of guiding and accomplishing a
coordinated, adjusted, and harmonious development of the municipality and its
environs which will, in accordance with the present and future needs, best
promote health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, and general
welfare, as well as efficiency in the process of development.
12.   Before adopting a comprehensive plan, as referred to in Subsection 11 or
any part of it, or any substantial amendment thereof, the Commission shall hold
at least one public hearing thereon, notice of the time of which shall be given
by one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the City not less
than four nor more than 20 days before the date of the hearing. The adoption of
the plan or part or amendment thereof shall be by resolution of the Commission
carried by the affirmative vote of not less than two-thirds of the members of
the Commission. After adoption of said plan by the Commission an attested copy
thereof shall be certified to the Council of the City and the Council may
approve the same when said plan or any modification or amendment thereof shall
receive the approval of the Council. The said plan, until subsequently modified
or amended as hereinbefore authorized, shall constitute the official plan.
13.   When such a comprehensive plan, as hereinbefore provided, has been
adopted no substantial amendment or modification thereof shall be made without
such proposed change first being referred to the Commission for its
recommendations. If the Commission disapproves the proposed change, it may be
adopted by the Council only by the affirmative vote of at least three-fourths
of the members of the Council.
21.07 EXPENSES, MONEY APPROPRIATED.
The Council may annually appropriate a sum of money from the General Fund for
the payment of the expenses of the Commission.
CHAPTER 22
PARKS COMMISSION
 
22.01 Parks Commission                   22.07 Gifts
22.02 Terms, Appointments, and Vacancies 22.08 Acquisition of Land
22.03 Organization                       22.09 Sale or Lease of Property
22.04 Budget                             22.10 Rules
22.05 Reports                            22.11 Penalties
22.06 Employees
 
22.01 PARKS COMMISSION.
Subject to Council approval, Parks Commission shall advise the City on the
management of all City parks and shall develop policies for the management of
City parks.
22.02 TERMS, APPOINTMENTS, AND VACANCIES.
1.   The Commission shall consist of five Commissioners, appointed by the
Council, who shall be non-elected citizens. There shall be one member of the
Council, appointed by the Mayor, to serve as a non-voting member of the
Commission.
2.   Terms of offices shall be three year terms, staggered. The non-voting
Council position shall be a term as designated by the Mayor.
3.   Vacancies shall be filled as needed with terms of expiration of vacant
position remaining the same.
22.03 ORGANIZATION.
At its first meeting the Commission shall adopt organizational rules governing
the conduct of Commission business such as notice of meetings, agenda, quorum
for business, rules of order, and the election of a Chairperson Pro-Tem; and
shall elect a Chairperson and a Secretary for the following duties:
1.   Chairperson shall preside at all Commission meetings.
2.   Secretary shall be responsible for taking of Commission minutes, turning
same in to the City administration office for disbursement to Council and
permanent record keeping. At subsequent meetings, the Commission shall adopt
rules for the use of and conduct at City parks. The Commission shall also adopt
sanctions for violations of its rules.
22.04 BUDGET.
The Parks Commission shall receive a fiscal budget from the City. The breakdown
within that budget of revenues and expenditures shall be subject to Council
approval during the budget process. All expenses will be subject to the City
purchasing policy.
22.05 REPORTS.
The Secretary shall, in addition to providing minutes of meetings to City
Administration for Council disbursement, make written reports of its activities
as it deems advisable or upon Council request.
22.06 EMPLOYEES.
The Parks Commission shall not have employees and shall not manage City
employees; however, the City Manager shall consult with the Parks Commission
regarding work to be accomplished at City parks and facilities and events and
the City Manager shall assign City employees to provide services to the Parks
Commission if the City Manager, in their discretion, decides it is necessary.
22.07 GIFTS.
All gifts, donations, and bequests that may be made to the City for the purpose
of establishing, increasing, or improving the parks and their facilities shall
be administered by the Commission and expended subject to the $500.00
authorization required under Section
22.04.
22.08 ACQUISITION OF LAND.
With the consent of the Council, the Commission may initiate the acquisition of
real estate inside or outside the City for park purposes by donation, lease, or
purchase. However, condemnation proceedings shall be instituted and maintained
by the City. Title to all real estate for or managed by the Commission shall be
held in the name of the City.
22.09 SALE OR LEASE OF PROPERTY.
The Commission may sell, subject to the approval of the Council, exchange, or
lease any real estate acquired by it which in its discretion is unfit, not
desirable, unnecessary, or not required for park purposes.
22.10 RULES.
The Commission shall have power to make rules and regulations for the use of
parks or their recreational facilities, subject to the approval of the rules by
the Council. Such rules shall either be posted on the facility or otherwise
publicized in a manner to provide adequate notice to the using public.
22.11 PENALTIES.
Violation of any Commissioners rules regarding use of parks or conduct of
parties either in the parks or at any Parks Commission sponsored activity shall
be grounds for imposition of sanctions by the Parks Commissioners; but, any
such sanction may be appealed to the entire Council for their review and
decision. The Council decisions regarding sanctions shall be final.
CHAPTER 23
UTILITY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
23.01 Purpose         23.09 Powers and Duties
23.02 Established     23.10 Financial Reports
23.03 Appointment     23.11 Budget Preparation
23.04 Terms of Office 23.12 Use of Streets and Alleys
23.05 Meetings        23.13 Permit Payment
23.06 Bonds           23.14 Services to the Community
23.07 Compensation    23.15 Chairperson
23.08 Reimbursement   23.16 Management Personnel
 
23.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the operation of the Municipally
owned electric utility by a Board of Trustees.
23.02 ESTABLISHED.
There shall be established a Board of Municipal Electric Utility Trustees to
manage and control the Municipal electric utility as authorized by the voters
at the municipal election held November 5, 1985.
23.03 APPOINTMENT.
The Mayor shall appoint five members to the Board of Trustees. The Council will
confirm or deny said appointments. The Board shall serve in an advisory
capacity for a period not to exceed one year commencing with the passage of
this chapter. The Council may by resolution release the Board of its advisory
duties and grant the Board supervisory control of the electric utility prior to
the expiration of such one-year period.
23.04 TERMS OF OFFICE.
The terms of office shall be as follows:
1.   One person - Two year term.
2.   Two persons - Four year term.
3.   Two persons - Six year term.
All subsequent terms of office shall be for six years. The terms shall be
deemed to commence on January 1 of odd numbered years. Any vacancy shall be
filled in the manner of original appointments, but only for the balance of the
unexpired term where the vacancy occurs. All members of the Board shall be
residents of the City.
23.05 MEETINGS.
The Board of Trustees shall hold at least one regular meeting each month. The
Board shall also call special meetings as necessary. The Secretary shall
provide public notice of all regular and special meetings. The regular monthly
meeting date shall be set by the Board at their first meeting in January for
the following year. The regular monthly meeting date shall not conflict with
the regular monthly meetings of the Council.
23.06 BONDS.
Each Trustee shall execute and furnish to the City an official bond in the sum
of $5,000.00 to be approved by the Council and filed with the Clerk. A blanket
bond covering all officers and employees may be substituted in place of
individual bonds.
23.07 COMPENSATION.
Each Trustee shall receive compensation of $35.00 per meeting attended. Said
compensation shall commence January 1, 1986, and shall not exceed the sum of
$1,000.00 for one calendar year.
23.08 REIMBURSEMENT.
Each Trustee shall receive reimbursement for monies spent on mileage, lodging,
meals, and supplies while doing business for the Utility. The Trustee must
present the Utility with a receipt for each expense, and it will be approved by
the Board at the following meeting.
23.09 POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Board of Trustees shall have all the power and authority in the management
and control of the City electric plant and distribution system as is conferred
upon such Trustees in Chapter 388 of the Code of Iowa, or any amendments
thereto including the fixing of rates for electric service. Each Trustee shall
transmit to their successor in office all books, papers, records, and documents
belonging to the City in their custody or pertaining to their office.
23.10 FINANCIAL REPORTS.
Immediately following a regular or special meeting of the Board, the Secretary
shall prepare a condensed statement of the proceedings of the Board and cause
the statement to be published in the newspaper of general circulation in the
City. The statement must include a list of all claims allowed, showing the name
of the person or firm making the claim, the reason for the claim, and the
amount of the claim. A copy of such statement shall also be filed with the
Clerk. It shall immediately, after the close of each fiscal year, file with the
Clerk and Council a financial report including all money received and disbursed
for the fiscal year, and a comparative balance sheet showing assets and
liabilities of the fund at the beginning and end of the fiscal year. All
financial reports shall be subject to audit by a Certified Public Accountant.
All audits will be paid from the Utility Fund.
23.11 BUDGET PREPARATION.
The Board shall prepare its budget and present it to the Council not later than
January 15 of each year prior to the deadline for Council action approving the
annual budget in the form required for cities and by the Council. The Board may
establish a budget on a calendar year basis to coincide with electric reports
mandated by agencies and the State.
23.12 USE OF STREETS AND ALLEYS.
It shall be lawful for the municipal utility to cause to be set within the
limits of the public streets and alleys of the City such poles as it may deem
necessary, and to adjust conducting wires to and along said poles, for the
purpose of lighting the City with electricity, and the person or persons
putting up and adjusting said wires are hereby authorized and empowered to cut
off and remove such limbs of trees or other obstructions in the City right-of-
way and dedicated easements as may be necessary for the free and uninterrupted
use of said wires for the purpose of lighting the City with electricity in
accordance with standards established by the Council.
23.13 PERMIT PAYMENT.
In consideration of permission to use the streets and public ways of the City
for the construction, operation, maintenance, and reconstruction of a municipal
electric distribution system within the City, the Board shall pay to the City
an annual amount equal to two percent of the annual total gross revenues
collected from the sale of electricity to all customers, excluding sales made
under rate schedules lgs-1500 and lgs-2000 through December 31, 2003. The
payment shall be in addition to any other payment owed to the City by the
Board. Such payment shall be made in January of each year. The Board shall pass
an annual resolution that will accompany each permit payment which certifies
and details the amount(s) of total gross revenue from electric sales,
categories of revenues from electric sales, and time frame of electric sales
from which the payment is derived.
23.14 SERVICES TO THE COMMUNITY.
The Board shall continue to provide the following services to the City and
community without charge.
1.   Service and maintenance for the traffic signals, streetlights, electric
services in City buildings, airport buildings and lights, pumping stations, and
water wells. The Board may charge the City for parts and materials at the
Board's costs.
2.   Mounting, storing, and removing of the downtown Christmas decorations,
flags, and banners.
23.15 CHAIRPERSON.
The Board shall elect a Chairperson who shall preside over the Board meetings.
The terms shall be established by the Board. The Board may also elect a Vice
Chairperson and Secretary-Treasurer. All such appointments shall be made at the
first meeting in January.
23.16 MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL.
The City Manager may serve in an advisory capacity for the Utility Board of
Trustees until such time as the Council, by resolution, directs that such
assistance from the City Manager is no longer required. The Board may employ a
manager or secretary to administer the policies and directions of the Board.
CHAPTER 24
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
 
24.01 Board of Adjustment                24.03 Appeals; Fee
24.02 Rules, Meetings, General Procedure 24.04 Powers
 
24.01 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
A Board of Adjustment is hereby created. The Board shall consist of five
members appointed by the Mayor and approved by the Council, each to be
appointed for a term of five years. Members shall be removable for cause by the
Mayor and Council, upon written charges and after public hearings. Vacancies
shall be filed for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant.
24.02 RULES, MEETINGS, GENERAL PROCEDURE.
The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for the conduct of its business,
establish a quorum and procedure, and keep a public record of all findings and
decisions. Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson
and at such other times as the Board may determine. Each session of the Board
of Adjustment at which an appeal is to be heard shall be a public meeting with
public notice of said meeting and business to be carried on published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the City, at least one time seven days
prior to the meeting.
24.03 APPEALS; FEE.
An appeal may be taken to the Board of Adjustment by any person, group, or
organization, public or private, affected by a decision of the Building
Official. Such appeal shall be taken within such time as prescribed by the
Board by general rule, by filing with the Building Official a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof. There is a fee which is subject to the City’s
Fees & Fines Resolution, shall accompany all notices of appeals. The Building
Official shall forthwith transmit to the Board all papers constituting the
record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
(Section 24.03 – Ord. 1246 – Jun. 25 Supp.)
24.04 POWERS.
The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers:
1.   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in any
order, requirements, decision, or determination made by the Building Official
in the enforcement of the Zoning Code, and may affirm or reverse, in whole or
part, said decision of the enforcement officer.
2.   To hear requests for variances from the literal provisions of the zoning
regulations in instances where strict enforcement of the zoning regulations
would cause undue hardship due to circumstances unique to the individual
property under consideration, and grant such variances only when it is
demonstrated that such action will be in keeping with the spirit and intent of
the provisions of the zoning regulations. The Board of Adjustment shall not
permit, as a variance, any use in a district that is not permitted under the
regulations. The Board of Adjustment may impose conditions in the granting of a
variance to insure compliance and to protect adjacent property.
3.   To hold public hearings on, and decide the following exceptions or
variations of the Zoning Code:
   A.   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line thereof
divides a lot held in a single ownership at the time of adoption of the Zoning
Code.
   B.   Interpret the provisions of the Zoning Code in such a way as to carry
out the intent and purpose of the plan, as shown upon the Zoning District Map
where the street layout on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on
this map.
   C.   Permit reconstruction of a nonconforming building otherwise prohibited
where such action would not constitute continuation of a monopoly.
   D.   Vary the yard regulations where there is an exceptional or unusual
physical condition of a lot, not generally prevalent in the neighborhood, which
condition, when related to the yard regulations of the Zoning Code, would
prevent a reasonable or sensible arrangement of buildings on the lot.
   E.   Vary the parking regulations by not more than 50 percent where it is
conclusively shown that the specific use of a building would make unnecessary
the parking spaces otherwise required by the Zoning Code or where it can be
conclusively shown that adequate off-street parking to serve a particular use
has been provided by or is controlled by the municipality.
4.   Special Use Permits may be granted by the Board of Adjustment as provided
by Section
165.46.
5.   Decisions of the Board, with respect to the proceedings, shall be subject
to appeal to the District Court of the County within 30 days after the filing
of the decision in the office of the Board. However, appeals regarding the
enforcement of Section
165.41, shall proceed according to the procedure set forth in Section
165.41(9) of the Code of Ordinances.
6.   To hold public hearing regarding application for sign variances filed with
the City and make final decision whether application is approved or denied.
CHAPTER 25
BUILDING CODE BOARD OF APPEALS
 
25.01 Created        25.06 Powers and Duties
25.02 Members        25.07 General Procedure
25.03 Term of Office 25.08 Qualifications
25.04 Vacancies      25.09 Administration
25.05 Compensation
 
25.01 CREATED.
In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions, or determinations
made by the Building Official relative to the interpretation of the adopted
Building Code, a Building Code Board of Appeals is hereby created.
25.02 MEMBERS.
The Board shall consist of five members appointed by the Mayor and approved by
the Council. Meetings will be held on an as needed basis. The Building Official
shall be an ex officio member of said Board but shall not have a vote on any
matter before the Board.
25.03 TERM OF OFFICE.
The term of office of the members of said Board shall be three years. Terms
will run from January 1 to December 31 and will be staggered so that no more
than two members share a term. Members may be removed for cause by the Mayor
and Council, upon written charges and after public hearings.
25.04 VACANCIES.
If any vacancy shall exist on said Board caused by resignation, or otherwise,
the Council shall appoint a successor for the remainder of said term. Vacancies
shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant.
25.05 COMPENSATION.
All members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
25.06 POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Board shall hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions, or determinations
made by the Building Official relative to the interpretation of the adopted
Building Code. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the
true intent of the Code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been
incorrectly interpreted; the provisions of the Code do not fully apply, or an
equally good or better form of construction is proposed. The Board shall not
have authority to waive requirements of the Code.
25.07 GENERAL PROCEDURE.
The Building Code Board of Appeals shall adopt rules for the conduct of its
business, establish a quorum and procedures and keep a public record of all
findings and decisions. Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the
Chair and such other times as the Board may determine. Each session of the
Building Code Board of Appeals at which an appeal is to be heard shall be a
public meeting with public notice of said meeting published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the City, at least one time seven days prior to the
meeting. The Board shall render decisions and findings in writing to the
appellant with a duplicate copy to the Building Official.
25.08 QUALIFICATIONS.
The Board shall consist of residents who are qualified by experience and
training to pass judgment on matters pertaining to building construction and
are not employees of the jurisdiction.
25.09 ADMINISTRATION.
The Building Official shall take immediate action in accordance with the
decision of the Board.
CHAPTER 26
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
 
26.01 Civil Service Rules and Regulations Adopted 26.03 Procedure to Abolish
26.02 Civil Service Commission
 
26.01 CIVIL SERVICE RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
The provisions of Chapter 400 of the Code of Iowa, as that chapter may from
time to time be amended, are hereby adopted.
26.02 CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
The City of Maquoketa Civil Service Commission is hereby created and it shall
consist of three members who shall be appointed by a majority vote of the
Council and shall serve terms as set forth in Section 400.1 of the Code of
Iowa.
26.03 PROCEDURE TO ABOLISH.
The Civil Service Commission shall not be abolished except as provided by
Section 400.3 of the Code of Iowa as it may from time to time be amended. The
Clerk shall be the Clerk of the Commission.
CHAPTER 27
AIRPORT COMMISSION
 
27.01 Commission Created         27.05 Compensation
27.02 Airport Commission Members 27.06 Powers and Duties
27.03 Term of Office             27.07 Expenses, Money Appropriated
27.04 Vacancies                  27.08 Airport Advisory Board
 
27.01 COMMISSION CREATED.
Under and by virtue of the authority conferred by Chapter 330.17 of the Code of
Iowa, 1981, an Airport Commission is hereby created and established.
27.02 AIRPORT COMMISSION MEMBERS.
The Airport Commission shall consist of five members, who shall be citizens of
the City and qualified by knowledge or experience to act in matters pertaining
to the airport. The Council shall appoint members of the Commission.
27.03 TERM OF OFFICE.
The term of office of the voting members of said Commission shall be six years.
27.04 VACANCIES.
If any vacancy shall exist on said Commission caused by resignation, or
otherwise, the Council shall appoint a successor for the remainder of said
term.
27.05 COMPENSATION.
All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, except their
actual expenses, which shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
27.06 POWERS AND DUTIES.
1.   The Airport Commission shall choose annually at its first regular meeting
one of its members to act as Chairperson of this Commission and another as
Vice-Chairperson, who shall perform all the duties of the Chairperson during
their absence or disability.
2.   The Commission shall adopt such rules and regulations governing its
organization and procedure as it may deem necessary.
3.   The Commission shall each year make a report to the Mayor and Council of
its proceedings, with a full statement of its receipts, disbursements, and the
progress of its work during the preceding fiscal year.
4.   The Commission shall have full, complete, and exclusive authority to
expend for and on behalf of the City all sums of money appropriated as
hereinafter provided, and to use and expend all gifts, donations, or payments
whatsoever which are received by the City for airport purposes.
5.   The Commission shall have no power to contract debts beyond the amount of
its income for the present year.
27.07 EXPENSES, MONEY APPROPRIATED.
The Council may annually appropriate a sum of money from the General Fund for
the payment of the expenses of the Airport Commission.
27.08 AIRPORT ADVISORY BOARD.
1.   The Airport Commission shall be advised by a working group known as the
Airport Advisory Board consisting of three members.
2.   Beginning July 1, 2018, and every four years thereafter, the Mayor shall
appoint three members to serve on the Airport Advisory Board. Two of the
appointees shall come from a list of State eligible voters supplied by the
Chamber of Commerce and one appointee shall come from a list of State eligible
voters provided by the County Economic Alliance. All nominees shall have at
least existing or recent business experience, or shall have served within the
last five years on for-profit or not-for-profit economic development boards.
Membership on the Airport Advisory Board shall not be limited to County or City
residents. Appointees shall be approved by resolution of the Council
3.   The Airport Advisory Board shall meet at least annually, but as often as
is practicable and necessary:
   A.   Advise the Airport Commission, in writing, of comprehensive goals for
the regional and local marketing and economic development of the airport;
   B.   Advise the Airport Commission, in writing, of possible grant
application possibilities geared toward expanding the commercial usefulness of
the Municipal Airport;
   C.   Advise the Airport Commission, in writing, of methods of increasing
airport services to both commercial and recreational users of the airport; and
   D.   Advise the Airport Commission, in writing, of methods of increasing
revenue to the Airport Commission from the sale of services and from expanded
amenities.
4.   The Airport Advisory Board shall meet at least annually and shall follow
the requirements of Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa. At least one member of the
Airport Advisory Board shall attend all Airport Commission meetings.
5.   Vacancies on the Airport Advisory Board due to resignation, death, or
disqualification shall be filled by the Mayor from the same list from which the
former member was selected. If no such names remain on said list, the Mayor
shall solicit the Chamber of Commerce or the County Economic Alliance for a
replenished list from which to select a new member. Replacement appointees
shall be approved by resolution of the Council.
CHAPTER 28
DOWNTOWN INCENTIVE BOARD
 
28.01 Created        28.06 Duties and Powers
28.02 Members        28.07 General Procedure
28.03 Term of Office 28.08 Qualification
28.04 Vacancies      28.09 Administration
28.05 Compensation
 
28.01 CREATED.
There is hereby created and established the Downtown Incentive Board.
28.02 MEMBERS.
The Board shall consist of five voting members appointed by the Council. Up to
two members may be Council members. There shall be three non-voting members:
Building Official, Chamber of Commerce Director, and JCEA Director.
28.03 TERM OF OFFICE.
The term of office of the members of said Board shall be three years. Members
shall be removable for cause by the Mayor and Council, upon written charges and
after public hearings. Terms will run from January 1 to December 31.
28.04 VACANCIES.
If any vacancy shall exist on said Board caused by resignation, or otherwise,
the Council shall appoint a successor for the remainder of said term. Vacancies
shall be filed for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant.
28.05 COMPENSATION.
All members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
28.06 DUTIES AND POWERS.
To advise the Council regarding grant programs offered to building and business
owners in the Central Business District and to make recommendations regarding
applications to said grant programs. A report of grant activity including
applications, recommendations, and expenses will be given to Council annually.
28.07 GENERAL PROCEDURE.
The Downtown Incentive Board will meet as needed with no public notice and will
have a minimum of four meetings per year.
28.08 QUALIFICATION.
The Downtown Incentive Board members will need to demonstrate interest or
experience in construction, historic preservation, retail sales, housing, or
economic development.
28.09 ADMINISTRATION.
The recommendations made by the Downtown Incentive Board will be given to
Council in writing at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
CHAPTER 29
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
 
29.01 Purpose and Intent               29.04 Powers of the Commission
29.02 Definitions                      29.05 Amendatory Provisions
29.03 Historic Preservation Commission
 
29.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
The purpose of this chapter is to:
1.   Promote the education, cultural, economic, and general welfare of the
public through the recognition, enhancement, and perpetuation of sites and
districts of historical and cultural significance.
2.   Safeguard the City’s historic, aesthetic, and cultural heritage by
preserving sites and districts of historical and cultural significance.
3.   Stabilize and improve property values.
4.   Foster pride in the legacy of beauty and achievements of the past.
5.   Protect and enhance the City’s attractions to tourists and visitors and
the support and stimulus to business thereby provided.
6.   Strengthen the economy of the City.
7.   Promote the use of sites and districts of historic and cultural
significance as places for the education, pleasure, and welfare of the people
of the City.
29.02 DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Commission” means the Maquoketa Historic Preservation Commission, as
established by their proclamation.
2.   “Historic district” means an area which contains a significant portion of
buildings, structures, or other improvements which, considered as a whole,
possesses integrity of location, design, setting, materials, workmanship,
feeling, and association, and
   A.   Embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or method
of construction, or that presents the work of a master, or that possesses high
artistic values, or that represents a significant and distinguishable entity
whose components may lack individual distinction; or,
   B.   Is associated with events that have made significant contributions to
the broad patterns of our local, State, or national history; or,
   C.   Possesses a coherent and distinctive visual character or integrity
based upon similarity of scale, design, color, setting, workmanship, materials,
or combinations thereof, which is deemed to add significantly to the value and
attractiveness of properties within such area; or,
   D.   Is associated with the lives or persons significant to our past; or,
   E.   Has yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important to
prehistory or history.
3.   “Historic site” means a structure or building which;
   A.   Is associated with events that have made a significant contribution to
the broad patterns of our history; or,
   B.   Is associated with the lives of persons significant in our past; or,
   C.   Embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or method
of construction, or that represents a work of a master, or that possesses high
artistic values, or that represents a significant and distinguishable entity
whose components may lack individual distinction; or,
   D.   Has yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in
prehistory or history.
29.03 HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
1.   The Commission shall consist of five members who shall be residents of the
City.
2.   Members of the Commission shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice
and consent of the Council. Members should demonstrate a positive interest in
historic preservation, possessing interest in historic preservation, possessing
interest or expertise in architecture, architectural history, historic
preservation, City planning, building rehabilitation, conservation in general
of real estate.
3.   The original appointment of the members of the Commission shall be three
for two years, and two for three years, following the year of such appointment
or until their successor is appointed to serve for the term of three years.
4.   Vacancies occurring in the Commission, other than expiration of term of
office, shall be only for the unexpired portion of the term of the member
replaced.
5.   Members may serve for more than one term and each member shall serve until
the appointment of a successor.
6.   Vacancies shall be filled by the City according to the original selection
as aforesaid.
7.   Members shall serve without compensation.
8.   A simple majority of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business.
9.   The Commission shall elect a Chairperson who shall preside over all
Commission meetings and elect a Secretary who shall be responsible for
maintaining written records of the Commission’s proceedings.
10.   The Commission shall meet at least three times a year.
29.04 POWERS OF THE COMMISSION.
1.   The Commission may conduct inventory studies for identification and
designation of Historic Districts and sites meeting the definitions established
by this chapter. (The necessary inventory forms and procedures for their
completion are available from the State Office for Historic Preservation.) The
Commission may proceed at its own initiative or upon a petition from any
person, group, or association. The Commission shall maintain records of all
studies and inventories for public use.
2.   The Commission may make a recommendation to the State Office of Historic
Preservation for the listing of a historical district or site in the National
Register of Historic Places and may conduct a public hearing thereon.
3.   The Commission may investigate and recommend to the Council the adoption
of ordinances designating historic sites and historic districts if they qualify
as defined herein; and,
4.   Other Powers. In addition to those duties and powers specified above, the
Commission may, with City approval:
   A.   Accept unconditional gifts and donations of real and personal property,
including money, for the purpose of historic preservation.
   B.   Acquire by purchase, bequest or donation, fee, and lesser interests in
historic properties, including properties adjacent to or associated with
historic preservation.
   C.   Preserve, restore, maintain, and operate historic properties, under the
ownership or control of the Commission.
   D.   Lease, sell, and otherwise transfer or dispose of historic properties
subject to rights of public access and other covenants and in a manner that
will preserve the property.
   E.   Contract, with the approval of the governing body, with the State or
federal government organizations.
   F.   Cooperate with the federal, State, and local governments in the
pursuance of the objectives of historic preservation.
   G.   Provide information for the purpose of historic preservation to the
governing body.
   H.   Promote and conduct an educational and interpretive program on historic
properties within its jurisdiction.
29.05 AMENDATORY PROVISIONS.
The City may amend this proclamation to meet any unforeseen circumstances which
may affect the duties and responsibilities of the Commission.
CHAPTER 30
TREE BOARD
 
30.01 Creation and Establishment of Tree 30.04 Duties and Responsibilities
Board
30.02 Term of Office                     30.05 Operation
30.03 Compensation
 
30.01 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF TREE BOARD.
There is hereby created and established a Tree Board for the City, which shall
consist of five members, citizens, and residents of this City, who shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Council.
30.02 TERM OF OFFICE.
The term of the five persons to be appointed by the Mayor shall be three years
except that the term of two of the members appointed to the first Board shall
be for only one year and the term of two members of the first Board shall be
for two years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any
member, their successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the
term.
30.03 COMPENSATION.
Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
30.04 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate, counsel,
develop, and annually administer a written plan for the care, preservation,
pruning, planting, replanting, removal, or disposition of trees and shrubs in
parks, along streets and in other public areas. Such plan will be presented
annually to the Council and upon their acceptance and approval shall constitute
the official comprehensive City tree plan for the City. The Board, when
requested by the City, shall consider, investigate, make finding, report, and
recommend upon any special matter of question coming within the scope of its
work. Variations from Sections 151.02, 151.03, and 151.04 of this Code of
Ordinances may be made on an individual basis by action of the Tree Board.
30.05 OPERATION.
The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and regulations,
and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a
quorum for the transaction of business.
CHAPTER 31
COUNCIL COMMITTEES
 
31.01 Council Committees         31.04 Committee Meetings
31.02 Committee Responsibilities 31.05 Committee Power Limit
31.03 Committee Appointments
 
31.01 COUNCIL COMMITTEES.
There is hereby created the following four committees of the Council: Public
Safety, Recreation, Public Works, and Finance and Personnel.
31.02 COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES.
The Committees of the Council are created in order to provide a division of
labor regarding the issues that need to be addressed by the Council. The
Committees’ responsibilities are to thoroughly examine specific portions of the
City’s operations and functions. The various operations and functions assigned
to the Committees would include, but not be limited to, the following:
1.   Public Safety Committee shall address all issues concerning the Police
Department, Fire Department, traffic control, traffic signs, and any other
issues affecting the safety of the general public.
2.   Recreation Committee shall address all issues concerning the City’s parks
and recreation/community education programs. The Committee may also meet with
the Library Board of Trustees regarding issues that involve the Public Library.
3.   Public Works Committee shall address all issues that involve the City’s
parking lots, municipal airport, Mount Hope Cemetery, the City Hall Building,
and any private utilities doing business within the City; shall make
recommendations on all items that involve the Water Department, the Wastewater
Department, the sanitary sewer system, and streetlights; and shall make
recommendations regarding such items as the City streets, sidewalks, and storm
sewers.
4.   Finance and Personnel Committee shall be responsible for the auditing of
the City’s claims prior to the Council meeting on the third Monday of each
month. The Committee shall also make recommendations to the Council regarding
the financial transactions of the City, the annual audit reports, and the
overall financial condition of the City; and shall make recommendations to the
Council regarding all matters relating to the salaries and fringe benefits of
the City’s employees, labor negotiations, employee rules and regulations, and
any other personnel matters. The Personnel Committee shall also address items
relating to public relations.
31.03 COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS.
Each member of the Council shall be a member of one or more committees by
Mayoral appointment. The Mayor shall also annually designate four different
members of the Council to serve as Chairperson of one of the four committees
for a term of one year.
31.04 COMMITTEE MEETINGS.
Committee meeting dates shall be scheduled by resolution.
31.05 COMMITTEE POWER LIMIT.
The individual committees and the Committee of the Whole shall take no actions
or make any final decisions based upon its deliberations unless and until a
referral of said action or decision is made from the Committee of the Whole to
a regularly scheduled business meeting of the Council where said action is
placed on the agenda of that business meeting in accordance with Chapter 21 of
the Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 32
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE BOARD
 
32.01 Purpose                   32.03 Property Maintenance Board
32.02 Authority for Enforcement 32.04 Consultation
 
32.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to designate the responsibilities of persons for
maintenance of structures within the City.
32.02 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
The City Manager shall be responsible for the enforcement of this Code of
Ordinances and shall have all necessary authority to carry out such
enforcement. The City Manager may delegate their enforcement authority to a
Building Official.
32.03 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE BOARD.
There is hereby created and known as the Property Maintenance Board consisting
of five members, citizens, and residents of the City, who shall be appointed by
the Mayor with the approval of the Council. The term of the five persons to be
appointed by the Mayor shall be three years, except that the term of two of the
members appointed to the first committee shall be for only one year and the
term of two members of the first committee shall be for two years. In the event
that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, their successor shall
be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
32.04 CONSULTATION.
The City Manager, or their designated Building Official, may, in their
discretion, consult with the Property Maintenance Board concerning potential
violations of this Code of Ordinances. The Property Maintenance Board may make
non-binding recommendations to the City Manager or the Building Official
concerning enforcement of the City Code of Ordinances. However, the City
Manager or designated Building Official shall retain sole responsibility for
the enforcement of the Code.
CHAPTER 33
HOUSING AUTHORITY
 
33.01 Housing Authority Created 33.04 Vacancies
33.02 Housing Authority Members 33.05 Compensation
33.03 Term of Office            33.06 Duties and Powers
 
33.01 HOUSING AUTHORITY CREATED.
Under the provisions of Section 23 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, as
amended, a Housing Authority is hereby created and established.
33.02 HOUSING AUTHORITY MEMBERS.
A Housing Authority shall consist of five members, who shall be citizens of the
City and qualified by knowledge or experience to act in matters pertaining to
the Housing Authority. The Council shall appoint members of the Housing
Authority.
33.03 TERM OF OFFICE.
The term of office of the members of said Housing Authority shall be two years.
33.04 VACANCIES.
If any vacancy shall exist on said Housing Authority caused by resignation, or
otherwise, the Council shall appoint a successor for the remainder of said
term.
33.05 COMPENSATION.
All members of the Housing Authority shall serve without compensation, except
their actual expenses.
33.06 DUTIES AND POWERS.
1.   The Housing Authority shall choose annually, at its first regular meeting,
one of its members to act as Chairperson of this Housing Authority and another
as Vice-Chairperson, who shall perform all the duties of the Chairperson during
their absence or disability.
2.   The Housing Authority shall adopt such rules and regulations governing its
organization and procedure as it may deem necessary.
3.   The Housing Authority shall each year make an audit report to the Mayor of
its proceedings, with a full statement of its receipts, disbursements, and the
progress of its work during the preceding fiscal year.
4.   The Housing Authority shall have full, complete, and exclusive authority
to expend for and on behalf of the City all sums of money appropriated as
hereinafter provided, and to use and expend all payments whatsoever which are
received by the City for Housing Authority purposes.
5.   The Housing Authority shall have no power to contract debts beyond the
amount of its income for the present year.
CHAPTER 34
HOUSING REHABILITATION COMMITTEE
 
34.01 Housing Rehabilitation Committee Created 34.04 Vacancies
34.02 Housing Rehabilitation Committee Members 34.05 Compensation
34.03 Term of Office                           34.06 Duties and Powers
 
34.01 HOUSING REHABILITATION COMMITTEE CREATED.
There is hereby created and established a Housing Rehabilitation Committee of
interested citizens which will have part of the responsibility for the review
of the City’s Housing Rehabilitation Program as funded from a Community
Development Block Grant from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.
34.02 HOUSING REHABILITATION COMMITTEE MEMBERS.
A Committee shall consist of six members, who shall be citizens of the City and
qualified by knowledge or experience to act in matters pertaining to housing.
The Council shall appoint members of the Committee. One member shall be a
Council member.
34.03 TERM OF OFFICE.
The term of office of the members of said Committee shall be one year.
34.04 VACANCIES.
If any vacancy exist on said Committee caused by resignation, or otherwise, the
Council shall appoint a successor for the remainder of said term.
34.05 COMPENSATION.
All members of the Committee shall serve without compensation, except their
actual expenses, which shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
34.06 DUTIES AND POWERS.
The duties and powers of the Housing Rehabilitation Committee shall be as
follows:
1.   Establish and operate the rehabilitation programs for the City, in
accordance with local, State, and federal law, as well as the guidelines
established by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, and the
conditions of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and City
grant agreement; within the limits of the established.
2.   Indicate City approval of contract documents for housing rehabilitation
through the signature of the City Manager or Committee Chairman.
3.   Administer all rehabilitation funds, both grant and loan, in accordance
with this resolution.
4.   Encumber grant eligible administrative costs not to exceed $50.00 without
prior Council approval.
5.   Execute change orders by Committee approval, when change order delay would
prove economically unwise or present an imminent threat to health or safety;
change orders shall be approved by the signature of the Committee Chairperson,
City Manager, or Community Development Director.
6.   Approve contract payments on behalf of the City by signature of the
Committee Chairperson, City Manager, or Community Development Director.
CHAPTER 35
POLICE DEPARTMENT
 
35.01 Department Established       35.07 Powers and Duties of Police Chief
35.02 Organization                 35.08 Departmental Rules
35.03 Peace Officer Qualifications 35.09 Summoning Aid
35.04 Required Training            35.10 Taking Weapons
35.05 Compensation                 35.11 Contract Law Enforcement
35.06 Police Chief Appointed
 
35.01 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
The Police Department of the City is established to provide for the
preservation of peace and enforcement of law and ordinances within the
corporate limits of the City.
35.02 ORGANIZATION.
The department consists of the Police Chief and such other law enforcement
officers and personnel, whether full or part time, as may be authorized by the
Council.
35.03 PEACE OFFICER QUALIFICATIONS.
In no case shall any person be selected or appointed as a law enforcement
officer unless such person meets the minimum qualification standards
established by the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11)
35.04 REQUIRED TRAINING.
All peace officers shall have received the minimum training required by law at
an approved law enforcement training school within one year of employment.
Peace officers shall also meet the minimum in-service training as required by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11[2])
(501 IAC 3 and 8)
35.05 COMPENSATION.
Members of the department are designated by rank and receive such compensation
as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
35.06 POLICE CHIEF APPOINTED.
The Mayor shall appoint and dismiss the Police Chief subject to the consent of
a majority of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
35.07 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE CHIEF.
The Police Chief has the following powers and duties subject to the approval of
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   General. Perform all duties required of the Police Chief by law or
ordinance.
2.   Enforce Laws. Enforce all laws, ordinances, and regulations and bring all
persons committing any offense before the proper court.
3.   Writs. Execute and return all writs and other processes directed to the
Police Chief.
4.   Accident Reports. Report all motor vehicle accidents investigated to the
State Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.266)
5.   Prisoners. Be responsible for the custody of prisoners, including
conveyance to detention facilities as may be required.
6.   Assist Officials. When requested, provide aid to other City officers,
boards, and commissions in the execution of their official duties.
7.   Investigations. Provide for such investigation as may be necessary for the
prosecution of any person alleged to have violated any law or ordinance.
8.   Record of Arrests. Keep a record of all arrests made in the City by
showing whether said arrests were made under provisions of State law or City
ordinance, the offense charged, who made the arrest, and the disposition of the
charge.
9.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report as
well as such other reports as may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
10.   Command. Be in command of all officers appointed for police work and be
responsible for the care, maintenance, and use of all vehicles, equipment, and
materials of the department.
35.08 DEPARTMENTAL RULES.
The Police Chief shall establish such rules, not in conflict with the Code of
Ordinances, and subject to the approval of the Council, as may be necessary for
the operation of the department. The Police Chief shall wear upon their outer
garment and in plain view, a metal badge engraved with name of this office, and
such uniform as may be specified by the Council.
35.09 SUMMONING AID.
Any peace officer making a legal arrest may orally summon as many persons as
the officer reasonably finds necessary to aid the officer in making the arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.17)
35.10 TAKING WEAPONS.
Any person who makes an arrest may take from the person arrested all items that
are capable of causing bodily harm which the arrested person may have within
such person’s control, to be disposed of according to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.18)
35.11 CONTRACT LAW ENFORCEMENT.
In lieu of the appointment of a Police Chief by the Mayor as provided by
Section
35.06, the Council may contract with the County Sheriff or any other qualified
lawful entity to provide law enforcement services within the City and in such
event the Sheriff or such other entity shall have and exercise the powers and
duties of the Police Chief as provided herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 28E.30)
CHAPTER 36
RESERVE PEACE OFFICERS
 
36.01 Establishment of Force     36.07 No Reduction of Regular Force
36.02 Training                   36.08 Compensation
36.03 Status of Reserve Officers 36.09 Benefits When Injured
36.04 Carrying Weapons           36.10 Liability and False Arrest Insurance
36.05 Supplementary Capacity     36.11 No Participation in Pension Fund or
                                 Retirement System
36.06 Supervision of Officers
 
36.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF FORCE.
A force of reserve peace officers is hereby established. A reserve peace
officer is a volunteer, non-regular, sworn member of the Police Department who
will serve with or without compensation and has regular police powers while
functioning as the Police Department’s representative, and will participate on
a regular basis in the agency’s activities, including those of crime prevention
and control, preservation of the peace, and enforcement of the law.
36.02 TRAINING.
Training for individuals appointed as reserve peace officers shall be provided
by instructors in a community college or other facility, including a law
enforcement agency, selected by the individual and approved by the law
enforcement agency and the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy. All standards and
training required under Chapter 80D of the Code of Iowa constitute the minimum
standards for reserve peace officers. Upon satisfactory completion of training,
the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy shall certify the individual as a reserve
peace officer. There shall be no exemptions from the personal and training
standards provided for in this chapter.
36.03 STATUS OF RESERVE OFFICERS.
Reserve peace officers shall serve as peace officers on the orders and at the
discretion of the Police Chief. While in the actual performance of official
duties, reserve peace officers shall be vested with the same rights,
privileges, obligations, and duties as any other peace officer.
36.04 CARRYING WEAPONS.
A member of the reserve force shall not carry a weapon in the line of duty
until he or she has been approved by the Council and certified by the Iowa Law
Enforcement Academy Council. After approval and certification, a reserve peace
officer may carry a weapon in the line of duty only when authorized by the
Police Chief.
36.05 SUPPLEMENTARY CAPACITY.
Reserve peace officers shall act only in a supplementary capacity to the
regular force and shall not assume full-time duties of regular peace officers
without first complying with all the requirements of regular peace officers.
36.06 SUPERVISION OF OFFICERS.
Reserve peace officers shall be subordinate to regular peace officers, shall
not serve as peace officers unless under the direction of regular peace
officers, and shall wear a uniform prescribed by the Police Chief, unless that
superior officer designates alternate apparel for use when engaged in
assignments involving special investigations, civil process, court duties, jail
duties, and the handling of mental patients. The reserve peace officers shall
not wear an insignia of rank.
36.07 NO REDUCTION OF REGULAR FORCE.
There shall be no reduction of the authorized size of the regular law
enforcement department of the City because of the establishment or utilization
of reserve peace officers.
36.08 COMPENSATION.
While performing official duties, each reserve peace officer shall be
considered an employee of the City and shall be paid a minimum of $1.00 per
year. The Council may provide additional monetary assistance for the purchase
and maintenance of uniforms and equipment used by reserve peace officers.
36.09 BENEFITS WHEN INJURED.
Hospital and medical assistance and benefits, as provided in Chapter 85 of the
Code of Iowa, shall be provided by the Council to members of the reserve force
who sustain injury in the course of performing official duties.
36.10 LIABILITY AND FALSE ARREST INSURANCE.
Liability and false arrest insurance shall be provided by the City to members
of the reserve force while performing official duties in the same manner as for
regular peace officers.
36.11 NO PARTICIPATION IN PENSION FUND OR RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
This chapter shall not be construed to authorize or permit a reserve peace
officer to become eligible for participation in a pension fund or retirement
system created by the laws of the State and of which regular peace officers may
become members.
CHAPTER 37
FIRE DEPARTMENT
37.01 Establishment and Purpose 37.09 Constitution
37.02 Organization              37.10 Accidental Injury Insurance
37.03 Approved by Council       37.11 Liability Insurance
37.04 Training                  37.12 Calls Outside City
37.05 Compensation              37.13 Mutual Aid
37.06 Election of Officers      37.14 Authority to Cite Violations
37.07 Duties of Fire Chief      37.15 Purpose
37.08 Obedience to Fire Chief
 
37.01 ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
A volunteer fire department is hereby established to prevent and extinguish
fires and to protect lives and property against fires, to promote fire
prevention and fire safety, and to answer all emergency calls for which there
is no other established agency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.16)
37.02 ORGANIZATION.
The department consists of the Fire Chief and such other officers and personnel
as may be authorized by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
37.03 APPROVED BY COUNCIL.
No person having otherwise qualified shall be appointed to the department until
such appointment is submitted to and approved by a majority of the Council
members.
37.04 TRAINING.
All members of the department shall meet the minimum training standards
established by the State Fire Marshal and attend and actively participate in
regular or special training drills or programs as directed by the Fire Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100B.2[4])
37.05 COMPENSATION.
Members of the department shall be designated by rank and receive such
compensation as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
37.06 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
The department shall elect a Fire Chief and such other officers as its
constitution and bylaws may provide, but the election of the Fire Chief shall
be subject to the approval of the Council. In case of absence of the Fire
Chief, the officer next in rank shall be in charge and have and exercise all
the powers of Fire Chief.
37.07 DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
The Fire Chief shall perform all duties required of the Fire Chief by law or
ordinance, including (but not limited to) the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Enforce Laws. Enforce ordinances and laws regulating fire prevention and
the investigation of the cause, origin, and circumstances of fires.
2.   Technical Assistance. Upon request, give advice concerning private fire
alarm systems, fire extinguishing equipment, fire escapes and exits, and
development of fire emergency plans.
3.   Authority at Fires. When in charge of a fire scene, direct an operation as
necessary to extinguish or control a fire, perform a rescue operation,
investigate the existence of a suspected or reported fire, gas leak, or other
hazardous condition, or take any other action deemed necessary in the
reasonable performance of the department’s duties.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
4.   Control of Scenes. Prohibit an individual, vehicle, or vessel from
approaching a fire scene and remove from the scene any object, vehicle, vessel,
or individual that may impede or interfere with the operation of the Fire
Department.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
5.   Authority to Barricade. When in charge of a fire scene, place or erect
ropes, guards, barricades, or other obstructions across a street, alley, right-
of-way, or private property near the location of the fire or emergency so as to
prevent accidents or interference with the firefighting efforts of the Fire
Department, to control the scene until any required investigation is complete,
or to preserve evidence related to the fire or other emergency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.3)
6.   Command. Be charged with the duty of maintaining the efficiency,
discipline, and control of the Fire Department. The members of the Fire
Department shall, at all times, be subject to the direction of the Fire Chief.
7.   Property. Exercise and have full control over the disposition of all fire
apparatus, tools, equipment, and other property used by or belonging to the
Fire Department.
8.   Notification. Whenever death, serious bodily injury, or property damage in
excess of $200,000.00 has occurred as a result of a fire, or if arson is
suspected, notify the State Fire Marshal’s Division immediately. For all other
fires causing an estimated damage of $50.00 or more or emergency responses by
the Fire Department, file a report with the Fire Marshal’s Division within 10
days following the end of the month. The report shall indicate all fire
incidents occurring and state the name of the owners and occupants of the
property at the time of the fire, the value of the property, the estimated
total loss to the property, origin of the fire as determined by investigation,
and other facts, statistics, and circumstances concerning the fire incidents.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.2 and 100.3)
9.   Right of Entry. Have the right, during reasonable hours, to enter any
building or premises within the Fire Chief’s jurisdiction for the purpose of
making such investigation or inspection that under law or ordinance may be
necessary to be made and that is reasonably necessary to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 10A.514)
10.   Recommendation. Make such recommendations to owners, occupants,
caretakers, or managers of buildings necessary to eliminate fire hazards.
11.   Assist State Fire Marshal. At the request of the State Fire Marshal, and
as provided by law, aid said marshal in the performance of duties by
investigating, preventing, and reporting data pertaining to fires.
12.   Records. Cause to be kept records of the Fire Department personnel,
firefighting equipment, depreciation of all equipment and apparatus, the number
of responses to alarms, their cause, and location, and an analysis of losses by
value, type, and location of buildings.
13.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report of
the status and activities of the department as well as such other reports as
may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
37.08 OBEDIENCE TO FIRE CHIEF.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of the Fire Chief.
37.09 CONSTITUTION.
The department shall adopt a constitution and bylaws as they deem calculated to
accomplish the object contemplated, and such constitution and bylaws and any
change or amendment to such constitution and bylaws before being effective,
must be approved by the Council.
37.10 ACCIDENTAL INJURY INSURANCE.
The Council shall contract to insure the City against liability for worker’s
compensation and against statutory liability for the costs of hospitalization,
nursing, and medical attention for volunteer firefighters injured in the
performance of their duties as firefighters whether within or outside the
corporate limits of the City. All volunteer firefighters shall be covered by
the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 85.2, 85.61, and Sec. 410.18)
37.11 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
The Council shall contract to insure against liability of the City or members
of the department for injuries, death, or property damage arising out of and
resulting from the performance of departmental duties within or outside the
corporate limits of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 670.2 and 517A.1)
37.12 CALLS OUTSIDE CITY.
The department shall answer calls to fires and other emergencies outside the
City limits if the Fire Chief determines that such emergency exists and that
such action will not endanger persons and property within the City limits.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 and 3])
37.13 MUTUAL AID.
Subject to approval by resolution of the Council, the department may enter into
mutual aid agreements with other legally constituted fire departments. Copies
of any such agreements shall be filed with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 and 3])
37.14 AUTHORITY TO CITE VIOLATIONS.
Fire officials acting under the authority of Chapter 10A, Subchapter V, Part 2
of the Code of Iowa, may issue citations in accordance with Chapter 805 of the
Code of Iowa, for violations of Chapter 10A, Subchapter V, Part 2 of the Code
of Iowa or a violation of a local fire safety code.     
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.41)
(Section 37.14 – Ord._1235 – Oct. 24 Supp.)
37.15   PURPOSE.
To establish fees and charges for certain services, supplies, and equipment
provided by the Fire Department related to calls and services related to motor
vehicles, hazardous material or HAZMAT, and habitual false alarms, the “fees
and expenses,” and to implement a fair and equitable procedure by which to
collect said fees and expenses.
1.   Definitions. As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the
following meanings:
   A.   “Habitual false alarm” means the third fire alarm or call or greater
within a rolling twelve (12) month period, where the Fire Department responds
but no emergency requiring their presence is found upon arrival or during
investigation.
   B.   “Person” means and includes any individual, corporation, association,
partnership, firm, trustee, or legal representative.
   C.   “Recoverable expenses” means those expenses that are reasonable,
necessary and allocable to the Fire Department response. Recoverable expenses
allowable for recovery may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Disposable materials and supplies acquired, consumed and expended
specifically for the purpose of the emergency action;
      (2)   Compensation of employees for the time and efforts devoted
specifically to the emergency action;
      (3)   Rental or leasing of equipment used specifically for the emergency
action, such as protective equipment or clothing, scientific and technical
equipment;
      (4)   Replacement costs for equipment owned by the City that is
contaminated beyond reuse or repair, if the equipment was a total loss and the
loss occurred during the emergency action, such as self-contained breathing
apparatus irretrievably contaminated during the response;
      (5)   Decontamination of equipment contaminated during the response;
      (6)   Special technical services specifically required for the response,
such as costs associated with the time and efforts of technical experts or
specialists not otherwise provided for by the City;
      (7)   Other special services specifically required for the emergency
action;
      (8)   Laboratory costs of analyzing samples taken during the emergency
action;
      (9)   Costs of cleanup, storage, or disposal of the released material;
      (10)   Costs associated with the services, supplies and equipment
procured for a specific evacuation;
      (11)   Medical expenses incurred as a result of response activities;
      (12)   Legal expenses that may be incurred as a result of emergency
action, including efforts to recover expenses pursuant to this chapter.
   D.   “Release” means any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting,
emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping or disposing into
or upon the environment, which causes danger or harm to the public health or to
the environment, including but not limited to the release of any material
classified as hazardous material by any federal legislation or regulation, by
any State legislation or regulation, or by any City ordinance.
   E.   “Threatened release” mean any imminent or impending event potentially
causing but not resulting in a release, but causing the City to undertake an
emergency action.
2.   Strict Liability. Any and all persons causing or contributing to the
causing of a release or threatened release which results in an emergency action
shall be liable to the City for the recoverable expenses resulting from the
emergency action. This shall be in addition to any and all penalties, civil or
criminal provided by law.
3.   Recovery of Expenses.
   A.   Itemization of Recoverable Expenses. City personnel and departments
involved in a Fire Department response to an incident involving a motor
vehicle, typically an accident or a fire, but not to exclude other motor
vehicle calls, a call involving an actual or threatened release of hazardous
materials, a “HAZMAT” call, shall keep an itemized record of recoverable
expenses resulting from said incident/call. Promptly after completion of the
call, the appropriate City department shall certify those expenses to the City
Manager or designee.
   B.   Submission of Claim. The City shall submit a written itemized claim, in
accordance with Paragraph 4 of this section, to the responsible person with
written notice that the invoice is due in full within thirty (30) days of the
date of mailing, after which the City will consider civil action to collect the
invoiced sums, plus other permissible late fees, expenses, and costs.
   C.   Civil Suit. The City may bring a civil action to recover all sums
invoiced and costs and/or expenses incurred as permitted by this chapter
against the person deemed liable for said costs and expenses.
4.   Expense and Fee Schedule. Charges as stated hereafter per call shall be
assessed to the owner of the premises, or vehicle when appropriate, for
services rendered and/or materials provided by the Fire Department related to
response to such calls, either within, or outside the corporate limits of the
City.
   A.   Motor Vehicle Incidents.
      (1)   Level 1 - $500.00, which typically includes the provision of
hazardous materials assessment and scene stabilization. This will be the most
common “billing level.” This occurs almost every time the Fire Department
responds to an accident/incident.
      (2)   Level 2 - $575.00, which includes Level 1 services as well as clean
up and material used (sorbents) for hazardous fluid clean up and disposal.
Level 2 billing will apply anytime the Fire Department is required to perform
any clean-up of gasoline or other automotive fluids spilled or released as a
result of the incident.
      (3)   Level 3 - Vehicle Fire - $650.00, which typically includes the
provision of scene safety, fire suppression, breathing air, rescue tools, hand
tools, hose, tip use, foam, structure protection, and the clean-up of gasoline
or other automotive fluids that are spilled or released as a result of the
incident.
      (4)   Additional Services and Fees.
         a.   Extrication - $450.00, which typically includes the use of heavy
rescue tools, ropes, airbags, cribbing etc. This charge will be added to the
other fees as calculated in accordance with this chapter, if the Fire
Department frees or removes anyone from the vehicle(s) using any equipment.
Extrication fees will not be assessed if the Fire Department removes an
unconscious person or person from a vehicle without the use of equipment.
         b.   Creating a Landing Zone - $500.00, which includes Air Care
(multi-engine company response, mutual aid, helicopter). We will bill at this
level any time a helicopter landing zone is created to transport the patient
(s).
   B.   Hazardous Material (HAZMAT) Incidents.
      (1)   Level 1 - $500.00, a basic response which typically includes one or
more of the following, Fire Department response, interagency assistance or
response, first responder assistance or response, perimeter establishment,
evacuations, set-up and command.
   C.   Habitual False Alarm Incidents.
      (1)   Level 1 - $300.00, which typically includes one or more of the
following: Fire Department response, first responder assignment, perimeter
establishment, evacuations, first responder set-up and command, scene safety
and investigation (including possible contact with persons at scene and hazard
control).
   D.   Other Charges. The following charges, shall be assessed for all
responses or levels of service, in addition to the fees for said responses or
levels of service set forth above.
      (1)   Per truck billed at $500 per hour.
      (2)   Miscellaneous equipment billed at $300 per call.
   E.   Recoverable Expenses. The fees set forth above, in Section (4)(a)
through (c) are minimum charges or “billing levels” for up to one hour of
service, and are typical for the incident responses listed. Calls or responses
that last in excess of one hour will be itemized, when appropriate, to include
hourly charges under (4)(d) and all other recoverable expenses based on the
actual services provided and/or incurred by the City for the incident in
question, using itemized rates deemed usual, customary and reasonable for the
response and the services provided. These incidents will be billed, itemized
per apparatus, per personnel, plus products and equipment used.
5.   Resolution of Conflict With State or Federal Law. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to conflict with State or federal laws requiring persons
causing or responsible for releases or threatened releases from engaging in
remediation activities or paying the costs thereof, or both.
(Section 37.15 – Ord. 1254 – Aug. 25 Supp.)
CHAPTER 38
KEY LOCK BOX
 
38.01 Property Owners 38.02 Lock Box Installed
 
38.01 PROPERTY OWNERS.
This section shall apply to property owners of any:
1.   Commercial structures constructed after the effective date of this
chapter. † 3   
2.   Apartment buildings have a common area (or areas) that are locked to the
general public, constructed after the effective date of this chapter.
3.   An existing structure converted to commercial use after the effective date
of this chapter.
4.   An existing structure converted building which has a common area (or
areas) that is locked to the general public, after the effective date of this
chapter.
 
Notes
  †  EDITOR’S NOTE: Chapter 38 was first adopted by Ordinance No. 1044 passed on
3 March 19, 2007, and amended by Ordinance No. 1145 passed on December 14, 2018.
   
38.02 LOCK BOX INSTALLED.
For the purposes of this section, “Fire Official” shall mean the Fire Chief or
designee.
1.   The owners of any type of property designated in Section
38.01 shall install a key lock box system. This system shall be of a type
approved by the Fire Official and shall be installed in a location and in a
manner approved by the Fire Official. Such approval by the Fire Official must
be received before a certificate of occupancy can be issued for any applicable
structure. This requirement for a key lock box system may be waived by the Fire
Official if, in the opinion of the Fire Official, the size of the building or
other unusual circumstances render the lock box ineffective for its intended
purpose.
2.   The owners of commercial properties or apartment buildings that were in
existence before the effective date of this chapter may voluntarily participate
in the key lock box system. Upon notice to the Fire Official of the intent to
participate in this system, participating owners shall install a key lock box
upon the Fire Official’s approval of the key lock box’s type, location, and
manner of installation.
3.   Any owner that participates, whether required or voluntarily, in the Fire
Department’s key lock box program shall at all times provide a key for each
locked point of entry or exit, whether on the interior or exterior of the
structure; for each locked mechanical room; for each locked elevator room; for
each fire alarm or sprinkler system control room; and for any other areas as
directed by the Fire Official. Each key shall be labeled in a way that will
enable the Fire Official to determine which lock it operates.
4.   Any owner that participates, whether required or voluntarily, in the Fire
Department’s key lock box program shall immediately notify the Fire Official
and provide a replacement key for the key lock box if, for any reason, the
condition of the lock requires that its key be replaced.
5.   Key lock boxes must be mounted near the main entry door to the building.
The box must be mounted within three feet of the main entry at a height of four
to six feet. Unusual buildings may allow other mounting standards, at the
discretion of the Fire Official.
CHAPTER 39
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE SPILLS
 
39.01 Purpose                     39.05 Notifications
39.02 Definitions                 39.06 Police Authority
39.03 Cleanup Required            39.07 Liability
39.04 Liability for Cleanup Costs
 
39.01 PURPOSE.
In order to reduce the danger to the public health, safety, and welfare from
the leaks and spills of hazardous substances, these regulations are promulgated
to establish responsibility for the treatment, removal, and cleanup of
hazardous substance spills within the City limits.
39.02 DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Cleanup” means actions necessary to contain, collect, control, identify,
analyze, clean up, treat, disperse, remove, or dispose of a hazardous
substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[1])
2.   “Hazardous condition” means any situation involving the actual, imminent,
or probable spillage, leakage, or release of a hazardous substance onto the
land, into a water of the State, or into the atmosphere which creates an
immediate or potential danger to the public health or safety or to the
environment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[4])
3.   “Hazardous substance” means any substance or mixture of substances that
presents a danger to the public health or safety and includes, but is not
limited to, a substance that is toxic, corrosive, or flammable, or that is an
irritant or that generates pressure through decomposition, heat, or other
means. “Hazardous substance” may include any hazardous waste identified or
listed by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency under the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended by the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, or any toxic pollutant listed under
Section 307 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1,
1977, or any hazardous substance designated under Section 311 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1, 1977, or any hazardous
material designated by the Secretary of Transportation under the Hazardous
Materials Transportation Act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[5])
4.   “Responsible person” means a person who at any time produces, handles,
stores, uses, transports, refines, or disposes of a hazardous substance, the
release of which creates a hazardous condition, including bailees, carriers,
and any other person in control of a hazardous substance when a hazardous
condition occurs, whether the person owns the hazardous substance or is
operating under a lease, contract, or other agreement with the legal owner of
the hazardous substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[7])
39.03 CLEANUP REQUIRED.
Whenever a hazardous condition is created by the deposit, injection, dumping,
spilling, leaking, or placing of a hazardous substance, so that the hazardous
substance or a constituent of the hazardous substance may enter the environment
or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including ground
waters, the responsible person shall cause the condition to be remedied by a
cleanup, as defined in the preceding section, as rapidly as feasible to an
acceptable, safe condition. The costs of cleanup shall be borne by the
responsible person. If the responsible person does not cause the cleanup to
begin in a reasonable time in relation to the hazard and circumstances of the
incident, the City may, by an authorized officer, give reasonable notice, based
on the character of the hazardous condition, said notice setting a deadline for
accomplishing the cleanup and stating that the City will proceed to procure
cleanup services and bill the responsible person for all costs associated with
the cleanup if the cleanup is not accomplished within the deadline. In the
event that it is determined that immediate cleanup is necessary as a result of
the present danger to the public health, safety, and welfare, then no notice
shall be required and the City may proceed to procure the cleanup and bill the
responsible person for all costs associated with the cleanup. If the bill for
those services is not paid within 30 days, the City Attorney shall proceed to
obtain payment by all legal means. If the cost of the cleanup is beyond the
capacity of the City to finance it, the authorized officer shall report to the
Council and immediately seek any State or federal funds available for said
cleanup.
39.04 LIABILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS.
The responsible person shall be strictly liable to the City for all of the
following:
1.   The reasonable cleanup costs incurred by the City or the agents of the
City as a result of the failure of the responsible person to clean up a
hazardous substance involved in a hazardous condition.
2.   The reasonable costs incurred by the City or the agents of the City to
evacuate people from the area threatened by a hazardous condition caused by the
person.
3.   The reasonable damages to the City for the injury to, destruction of, or
loss of City property, including parks and roads, resulting from a hazardous
condition caused by that person, including the costs of assessing the injury,
destruction, or loss.
4.   The excessive and extraordinary cost incurred by the City or the agents of
the City in responding at and to the scene of a hazardous condition caused by
that person.
39.05 NOTIFICATIONS.
1.   A person manufacturing, storing, handling, transporting, or disposing of a
hazardous substance shall notify the State Department of Natural Resources and
the Police Chief of the occurrence of a hazardous condition as soon as possible
but not later than six hours after the onset of the hazardous condition or
discovery of the hazardous condition. The Police Chief shall immediately notify
the Department of Natural Resources.
2.   Any other person who discovers a hazardous condition shall notify the
Police Chief, who shall then notify the Department of Natural Resources.
39.06 POLICE AUTHORITY.
If the circumstances reasonably so require, the law enforcement officer or an
authorized representative may:
1.   Evacuate persons from their homes to areas away from the site of a
hazardous condition, and
2.   Establish perimeters or other boundaries at or near the site of a
hazardous condition and limit access to cleanup personnel.
No person shall disobey an order of any law enforcement officer issued under
this section.
39.07 LIABILITY.
The City shall not be liable to any person for claims of damages, injuries, or
losses resulting from any hazardous condition, unless the City is the
responsible person as defined in Section
39.02(4).
CHAPTER 40
PUBLIC PEACE
 
40.01 Assault    40.03 Disorderly Conduct
40.02 Harassment 40.04 Failure to Disperse
 
40.01 ASSAULT.
No person shall, without justification, commit any of the following:
1.   Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to cause pain or injury to
another or that is intended to result in physical contact that will be
insulting or offensive to another, coupled with the apparent ability to execute
the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[1])
2.   Threat of Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to place another in
fear of immediate physical contact which will be painful, injurious, insulting,
or offensive, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[2])
An act described in Subsections 1 and 2 shall not be an assault under the
following circumstances: (i) if the person doing any of the enumerated acts,
and such other person, are voluntary participants in a sport, social or other
activity, not in itself criminal, and such act is a reasonably foreseeable
incident of such sport or activity, and does not create an unreasonable risk of
serious injury or breach of the peace; (ii) if the person doing any of the
enumerated acts is employed by a school district or accredited nonpublic
school, or is an area education agency staff member who provides services to a
school or school district, and intervenes in a fight or physical struggle or
other disruptive situation that takes place in the presence of the employee or
staff member performing employment duties in a school building, on school
grounds, or at an official school function, regardless of the location, whether
the fight or physical struggle or other disruptive situation is between
students or other individuals, if the degree and the force of the intervention
is reasonably necessary to restore order and to protect the safety of those
assembled.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1)
40.02 HARASSMENT.
No person shall commit harassment.
1.   A person commits harassment when, with intent to intimidate, annoy, or
alarm another person, the person does any of the following:
   A.   Communicates with another by telephone, telegraph, writing, or via
electronic communication without legitimate purpose and in a manner likely to
cause the other person annoyance or harm.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   B.   Places any simulated explosive or simulated incendiary device in or
near any building, vehicle, airplane, railroad engine or railroad car, or boat
occupied by the other person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   C.   Orders merchandise or services in the name of another, or to be
delivered to another, without such other person’s knowledge or consent.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   D.   Reports or causes to be reported false information to a law enforcement
authority implicating another in some criminal activity, knowing that the
information is false, or reports the alleged occurrence of a criminal act,
knowing the same did not occur.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
2.   A person commits harassment when the person, purposefully and without
legitimate purpose, has personal contact with another person, with the intent
to threaten, intimidate or alarm that other person. As used in this section,
unless the context otherwise requires, “personal contact” means an encounter in
which two or more people are in visual or physical proximity to each other.
“Personal contact” does not require a physical touching or oral communication,
although it may include these types of contacts.
40.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
No person shall do any of the following:
1.   Fighting. Engage in fighting or violent behavior in any public place or in
or near any lawful assembly of persons, provided that participants in athletic
contests may engage in such conduct that is reasonably related to that sport.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1a])
2.   Noise. Make loud and raucous noise in the vicinity of any residence or
public building which intentionally or recklessly causes unreasonable distress
to the occupants thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1b])
3.   Abusive Language. Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture
that the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent
reaction by another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1c])
4.   Disrupt Lawful Assembly. Without lawful authority or color of authority,
disturb any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by conduct intended to
disrupt the meeting or assembly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1d])
5.   False Report of Catastrophe. By words or action, initiate or circulate a
report or warning of fire, epidemic, or other catastrophe, knowing such report
to be false or such warning to be baseless.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1e])
6.   Disrespect of Flag. Knowingly and publicly use the flag of the United
States in such a manner as to show disrespect for the flag as a symbol of the
United States, with the intent or reasonable expectation that such use will
provoke or encourage another to commit trespass or assault. As used in this
subsection:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1f])
   A.   “Deface” means to intentionally mar the external appearance.
   B.   “Defile” means to intentionally make physically unclean.
   C.   “Flag” means a piece of woven cloth or other material designed to be
flown from a pole or mast.
   D.   “Mutilate” means to intentionally cut up or alter so as to make
imperfect.
   E.   “Show disrespect” means to deface, defile, mutilate, or trample.
   F.   “Trample” means to intentionally tread upon or intentionally cause a
machine, vehicle, or animal to tread upon.
7.   Funeral or Memorial Service. Within 1,000 feet of the building or other
location where a funeral or memorial service is being conducted, or within
1,000 feet of a funeral procession or burial:
   A.   Make loud and raucous noise that causes unreasonable distress to the
persons attending the funeral or memorial service or participating in the
funeral procession.
   B.   Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture that the person
knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent reaction by
another.
   C.   Disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial service, funeral procession,
or burial by conduct intended to disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial
service, funeral procession, or burial.
   This subsection applies to conduct within 60 minutes preceding, during, and
within 60 minutes after a funeral, memorial service, funeral procession, or
burial.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5)
40.04 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
A peace officer may order the participants in a riot or unlawful assembly or
persons in the immediate vicinity of a riot or unlawful assembly to disperse.
No person within hearing distance of such command shall refuse to obey.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.3)
CHAPTER 41
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
41.01 Distributing Dangerous Substances                  41.09 Antenna and
                                                         Radio Wires
41.02 False Reports to or Communications with Public     41.10 Barbed Wire and
Safety Entities                                          Electric Fences
41.03 Providing False Identification Information         41.11 Discharging
                                                         Firearms
41.04 Refusing to Assist Officer                         41.12 Throwing and
                                                         Shooting
41.05 Harassment of Public Officers and Employees        41.13 Urinating and
                                                         Defecating
41.06 Interference with Official Acts                    41.14 Fireworks
41.07 Removal of an Officer’s Communication or Control 41.15 Drug
Device                                                   Paraphernalia
41.08 Abandoned or Unattended Refrigerators              41.16 Failure to
                                                         Assist
 
41.01 DISTRIBUTING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
No person shall distribute samples of any drugs or medicine, or any corrosive,
caustic, poisonous or other injurious substance unless the person delivers such
into the hands of a competent person, or otherwise takes reasonable precautions
that the substance will not be taken by children or animals from the place
where the substance is deposited.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.1)
41.02 FALSE REPORTS TO OR COMMUNICATIONS WITH PUBLIC SAFETY ENTITIES.
No person shall do any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.6)
1.   Report or cause to be reported false information to a fire department, a
law enforcement authority, or other public safety entity, knowing that the
information is false, or report the alleged occurrence of a criminal act
knowing the act did not occur.
2.   Telephone an emergency 911 communications center, knowing that he or she
is not reporting an emergency or otherwise needing emergency information or
assistance.
3.   Knowingly provide false information to a law enforcement officer who
enters the information on a citation.
41.03 PROVIDING FALSE IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION.
No person shall knowingly provide false identification information to anyone
known by the person to be a peace officer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, in the performance of any act that is
within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, emergency
medical care provider, or firefighter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1A)
41.04 REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
Any person who is requested or ordered by any magistrate or peace officer to
render the magistrate or officer assistance in making or attempting to make an
arrest, or to prevent the commission of any criminal act, shall render
assistance as required. No person shall unreasonably and without lawful cause,
refuse or neglect to render assistance when so requested.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.2)
41.05 HARASSMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
No person shall willfully prevent or attempt to prevent any public officer or
employee from performing the officer’s or employee’s duty.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.4)
41.06 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTS.
No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct anyone known by the person to be a
peace officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider under Chapter 147A of
the Code of Iowa, medical examiner, or firefighter, whether paid or volunteer,
or a person performing bailiff duties pursuant to Section 602.1303[4] of the
Code of Iowa, in the performance of any act that is within the scope of the
lawful duty or authority of that officer, jailer, emergency medical care
provider, medical examiner, or firefighter, or person performing bailiff
duties, or shall knowingly resist or obstruct the service or execution by any
authorized person of any civil or criminal process or order of any court. The
terms “resist” and “obstruct” as used in this section do not include verbal
harassment unless the verbal harassment is accompanied by a present ability and
apparent intention to execute a verbal threat physically.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1)
41.07 REMOVAL OF AN OFFICER’S COMMUNICATION OR CONTROL DEVICE.
No person shall knowingly or intentionally remove or attempt to remove a
communication device or any device used for control from the possession of a
peace officer or correctional officer, when the officer is in the performance
of any act which is within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that
officer and the person knew or should have known the individual to be an
officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.12)
41.08 ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED REFRIGERATORS.
No person shall abandon or otherwise leave unattended any refrigerator, ice
box, or similar container, with doors that may become locked, outside of
buildings and accessible to children, nor shall any person allow any such
refrigerator, ice box, or similar container, to remain outside of buildings on
premises in the person’s possession or control, abandoned or unattended and so
accessible to children.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.3)
41.09 ANTENNA AND RADIO WIRES.
It is unlawful for a person to allow antenna wires, antenna supports, radio
wires, or television wires to exist over any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
public way, public ground, or public building without written consent of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.10 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
It is unlawful for a person to use barbed wire or electric fences to enclose
land within the City limits without the written consent of the Council unless
such land consists of 10 acres or more and is used as agricultural land.
41.11 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
Any person who discharges an air gun, rifle, shotgun, pistol, or firearm of any
kind within the City limits, with exception of indoor or outdoor firing ranges
authorized by the Police Chief or in the act of self-defense of property
authorized by State law or Police officers in the line of duty, commits a
municipal infraction. The Police Chief shall have the authority to authorize
adult individuals to discharge shotguns or air guns for the eradication of
pigeons, sparrows, crows, and starlings. The shooting shall be under the direct
supervision of the Police Chief or other designated officer. The permission of
the property owner shall be obtained prior to any shooting on their premises.
Police Chief shall allow only birdshot or equivalent shot on such occasions.
41.12 THROWING AND SHOOTING.
It is unlawful for a person to throw stones, bricks, or missiles of any kind or
to shoot arrows, paintballs, rubber guns, slingshots, air rifles, BB guns, or
other dangerous instruments or toys on or into any street, alley, highway,
sidewalk, public way, public ground, or public building, without written
consent of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.13 URINATING AND DEFECATING.
It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate onto any sidewalk, street,
alley, or other public way, or onto any public or private building, including
but not limited to the wall, floor, hallway, steps, stairway, doorway, or
window thereof, or onto any public or private land.
41.14 FIREWORKS.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.2)
1.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
   A.   “Consumer fireworks” means the following fireworks, as described in
Chapter 3 of the American Pyrotechnics Association (“APA”) Standard 87-1:
      (1)   First-class consumer fireworks:
         a.   Aerial shell kits and reloadable tubes;
         b.   Chasers;
         c.   Helicopters and aerial spinners;
         d.   Firecrackers;
         e.   Mine and shell devices;
         f.   Missile-type rockets;
         g.   Roman candles;
         h.   Sky rockets and bottle rockets;
         i.   Multiple tube devices under this paragraph which are manufactured
in accordance with APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.5.
      (2)   Second-class consumer fireworks:
         a.   Cone fountains;
         b.   Cylindrical fountains;
         c.   Flitter sparklers;
         d.   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices, including multiple tube
ground and hand-held sparkling devices that are manufactured in accordance with
APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.5;
         e.   Ground spinners;
         f.   Illuminating torches;
         g.   Toy smoke devices that are not classified as novelties pursuant
to APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.2;
         h.   Wheels;
         i.   Wire or dipped sparklers that are not classified as novelties
pursuant to APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.2.
   B.   “Display fireworks” includes any explosive composition, or combination
of explosive substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration, or
detonation, and includes fireworks containing any explosive or flammable
compound, or other device containing any explosive substance. “Display
fireworks” does not include novelties or consumer fireworks enumerated in
Chapter 3 of the APA Standard 87-1.
   C.   “Novelties” includes all novelties enumerated in Chapter 3 of the APA
Standard 87-1, and that comply with the labeling regulations promulgated by the
United States Consumer Product Safety Commission.
2.   Display Fireworks. It is unlawful for any person to use or explode any
display fireworks; provided, the City Council may, upon application in writing,
grant a permit for the display of display fireworks by municipalities, fair
associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of individuals
approved by the City when the display fireworks will be handled by a competent
operator,   but no such permit shall be required for the display of display
fireworks at the Iowa State Fairgrounds by the Iowa State Fair Board, at
incorporated county fairs, or at district fairs receiving State aid.. No permit
shall be granted hereunder unless the operator or sponsoring organization has
filed with the City evidence of insurance in the following amounts:
   A.   Personal Injury:   $250,000.00 per person
   B.   Property Damage:   $50,000.00
   C.   Total Exposure:   $1,000,000.00
3.   Consumer Fireworks. It is unlawful for any person to use or explode
consumer fireworks within the City outside of the following dates:
   A.   State Code Dates. Allowed by Section 364.2(6) of the Code of Iowa:
      (1)   July 3 between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
         a.   Except when July 3 falls on a Saturday or Sunday preceding July
4, in which fireworks shall be allowed between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 11:00
p.m.
      (2)   July 4 between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.
      (3)   December 31 between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 12:30 a.m. on the
immediately following day.
   B.   City Allowed Dates.
      (1)   No other dates or times permitted.
   C.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, no fireworks shall be exploded during
any period of time when:
      (1)   County has declared a burn ban, or
      (2)   When the Fire Department has issued any dry conditions advisory
wherein fireworks shall not be discharged.
(Subsection 3 – Ord. 1253 – Jun. 25 Supp.)
 
4.   Novelties. This section does not apply to novelties.
41.15 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 124.414)
1.   As used in this section “drug paraphernalia” means all equipment, products
or materials of any kind used or attempted to be used in combination with a
controlled substance, except those items used in combination with the lawful
use of a controlled substance, to knowingly or intentionally and primarily do
any of the following:
   A.   Manufacture a controlled substance.
   B.   Inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance.
   C.   Test the strength, effectiveness, or purity of a controlled substance.
   D.   Enhance the effect of a controlled substance.
   Drug paraphernalia does not include hypodermic needles or syringes if
manufactured, delivered, sold, or possessed for a lawful purpose.
2.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally manufacture,
deliver, sell, or possess drug paraphernalia.
41.16 FAILURE TO ASSIST.
A person who reasonably believes another person is suffering from a risk of
serious bodily injury or imminent danger of death shall, if the person is able,
attempt to contact local law enforcement or local emergency response
authorities, if doing so does not place the person or other person at risk of
serious bodily injury or imminent danger of death. No person shall without
lawful cause violate the provisions of this section. A person shall not be
required to contact local law enforcement or emergency response authorities if
the person knows or reasonably believes that the other person is not in need of
help or assistance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.12)
CHAPTER 42
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
 
42.01 Trespassing                       42.05 Fraud
42.02 Criminal Mischief                 42.06 Theft
42.03 Defacing Proclamations or Notices 42.07 Other Public Property Offenses
42.04 Unauthorized Entry
 
42.01 TRESPASSING.
1.   Prohibited. It is unlawful for a person to knowingly trespass upon the
property of another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.8)
2.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[1])
   A.   “Property” includes any land, dwelling, building, conveyance, vehicle,
or other temporary or permanent structure, whether publicly or privately owned.
   B.   “Public utility” is a public utility as defined in Section 476.1 of the
Code of Iowa or an electric transmission line as provided in Chapter 478 of the
Code of Iowa.
   C.   “Public utility property” means any land, dwelling, building,
conveyance, vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure owned, leased,
or operated by a public utility and that is completely enclosed by a physical
barrier of any kind.
   D.   “Railway corporation” means a corporation, company, or person owning,
leasing, or operating any railroad in whole or in part within this State.
   E.   “Railway property” means all tangible real and personal property owned,
leased, or operated by a railway corporation, with the exception of any
administrative building or offices of the railway corporation.
   F.   “Trespass” means one or more of the following acts:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2a])
      (1)   Entering upon or in property without the express permission of the
owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession with the intent to commit a
public offense or to use, remove therefrom, alter, damage, harass, or place
thereon or therein anything animate or inanimate.
      (2)   Entering or remaining upon or in property without justification
after being notified or requested to abstain from entering or to remove or
vacate therefrom by the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or the
agent or employee of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or by
any peace officer, magistrate, or public employee whose duty it is to supervise
the use or maintenance of the property.
      (3)   Entering upon or in property for the purpose or with the effect of
unduly interfering with the lawful use of the property by others.
      (4)   Being upon or in property and wrongfully using, removing therefrom,
altering, damaging, harassing, or placing thereon or therein anything animate
or inanimate, without the implied or actual permission of the owner, lessee, or
person in lawful possession.
      (5)   Entering or remaining upon or in railway property without lawful
authority or without the consent of the railway corporation which owns, leases,
or operates the railway property. This paragraph does not apply to passage over
a railroad right-of-way, other than a track, railroad roadbed, viaduct, bridge,
trestle, or railroad yard, by an unarmed person if the person has not been
notified or requested to abstain from entering onto the right-of-way or to
vacate the right-of-way and the passage over the right-of-way does not
interfere with the operation of the railroad.
      (6)   Entering or remaining upon or in public utility property without
lawful authority or without the consent of the public utility that owns,
leases, or operates the public utility property. This paragraph does not apply
to passage over public utility right-of-way by a person if the person has not
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering onto the right-of-way or to vacate the right-of-way.
3.   Specific Exceptions. “Trespass” does not mean either of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2b])
   A.   Entering upon the property of another for the sole purpose of
retrieving personal property which has accidentally or inadvertently been
thrown, fallen, strayed, or blown onto the property of another, provided that
the person retrieving the property takes the most direct and accessible route
to and from the property to be retrieved, quits the property as quickly as is
possible, and does not unduly interfere with the lawful use of the property.
This paragraph does not apply to public utility property where the person has
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering.
   B.   Entering upon the right-of-way of a public road or highway.
42.02 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
It is unlawful, for any person who has no right to do so, to intentionally
damage, deface, alter, or destroy property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.03 DEFACING PROCLAMATIONS OR NOTICES.
It is unlawful for a person intentionally to deface, obliterate, tear down, or
destroy in whole or in part, any transcript or extract from or of any law of
the United States or the State, or any proclamation, advertisement, or
notification, set up at any place within the City by authority of the law or by
order of any court, during the time for which the same is to remain set up.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.04 UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.
No unauthorized person shall enter or remain in or upon any public building,
premises, or grounds in violation of any notice posted thereon or when said
building, premises or grounds are closed and not open to the public. When open
to the public, a failure to pay any required admission fee also constitutes an
unauthorized entry.
42.05 FRAUD.
It is unlawful for any person to commit a fraudulent practice as defined in
Section 714.8 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.8)
42.06 THEFT.
It is unlawful for any person to commit theft as defined in Section 714.1 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
42.07 OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other activities or conditions that are also deemed
to be public property offenses:
1.   
Chapter 20 – Library
   A.   Section
20.10 – Injury to Books or Property
   B.   Section
20.11 – Theft of Library Property
2.   
Chapter 105 – Solid Waste Control and Recycling
   A.   Section
105.09 – Littering Prohibited
3.   
Chapter 135 – Street Use and Maintenance
   A.   Section
135.01 – Removal of Warning Devices
   B.   Section
135.02 – Obstructing or Defacing
   C.   Section
135.03 – Placing Debris On
   D.   Section
135.04 – Playing In
   E.   Section
135.05 – Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley
   F.   Section
135.08 – Burning Prohibited
   G.   Section
135.12 – Dumping of Snow
4.   
Chapter 136 – Sidewalk Regulations
   A.   Section
136.18 – Interference with Sidewalk Improvements
   B.   Section
136.21– Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
   C.   Section
136.22 – Defacing
   D.   Section
136.23 – Debris on Sidewalks
CHAPTER 45
ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION AND INTOXICATION
 
45.01 Persons Under Legal Age 45.03 Open Containers in Motor Vehicles
45.02 Public Consumption or   45.04 Social Host
Intoxication
 
45.01 PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
As used in this section, “legal age” means 21 years of age or more.  
1.   A person or persons under legal age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase, consume, or individually or jointly have alcoholic beverages in their
possession or control; except in the case of any alcoholic beverage given or
dispensed to a person under legal age within a private home and with the
knowledge, presence, and consent of the parent or guardian, for beverage or
medicinal purposes or as administered to the person by either a physician or
dentist for medicinal purposes and except to the extent that a person under
legal age may handle alcoholic beverages during the regular course of the
person’s employment by a retail alcohol licensee, or wine or beer permittee
under State laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47[3])
2.   A person under legal age shall not misrepresent the person’s age for the
purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic beverage from any
retail alcohol licensee or wine or beer permittee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[3])
45.02 PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OR INTOXICATION.
1.   As used in this section unless the context otherwise requires:
   A.   “Arrest” means the same as defined in Section 804.5 of the Code of Iowa
and includes taking into custody pursuant to Section 232.19 of the Code of
Iowa.
   B.   “Chemical test” means a test of a person’s blood, breath, or urine to
determine the percentage of alcohol present by a qualified person using devices
and methods approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
   C.   “Peace officer” means the same as defined in Section 801.4 of the Code
of Iowa.
   D.   “School” means a public or private school or that portion of a public
or private school that provides teaching for any grade from kindergarten
through grade twelve.
2.   A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer upon the
public streets or highways. A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor
in any public place, except premises covered by a retail alcohol license. A
person shall not possess or consume alcoholic liquors, wine, or beer on public
school property or while attending any public or private school-related
function. A person shall not be intoxicated in a public place.
3.   A person shall not simulate intoxication in a public place.
4.   When a peace officer arrests a person on a charge of public intoxication
under this section, the peace officer shall inform the person that the person
may have a chemical test administered at the person’s own expense. If a device
approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety for testing a sample of a
person’s breath to determine the person’s blood alcohol concentration is
available, that is the only test that need be offered the person arrested. In a
prosecution for public intoxication, evidence of the results of a chemical test
performed under this subsection is admissible upon proof of a proper
foundation. The percentage of alcohol present in a person’s blood, breath, or
urine established by the results of a chemical test performed within two hours
after the person’s arrest on a charge of public intoxication is presumed to be
the percentage of alcohol present at the time of arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.46)
45.03 OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
[See Section
62.01(50) and (51) of this Code of Ordinances.]
45.04 SOCIAL HOST.
A person who is the owner or lessee of, or who otherwise has control over,
property that is not a licensed premises shall not knowingly permit any person,
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the person to be under the age of
18, to consume or possess on such property any alcoholic beverage. The
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a landlord or manager of the
property or to a person under legal age who consumes or possesses any alcoholic
beverage in connection with a religious observance, ceremony, or rite.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47)
CHAPTER 46
MINORS
 
46.01 Curfew                 46.03 Contributing to Delinquency
46.02 Cigarettes and Tobacco
 
46.01 CURFEW.
The Council has determined that a curfew for minors is necessary to promote the
public health, safety, morals and general welfare of the City and specifically
to reinforce the primary authority and responsibility of adults responsible for
minors; to protect the public from the illegal acts of minors committed after
the curfew hour; and to protect minors from improper influences and criminal
activity that prevail in public places after the curfew hour.
1.   Definitions. For use in this section, the following terms are defined:
   A.   “Emergency errand” means, but is not limited to, an errand relating to
a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any other situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious illness, bodily injury, or loss
of life.
   B.   “Knowingly” means knowledge that a responsible adult should reasonably
be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that responsible
adult’s custody. It is intended to continue to hold the neglectful or careless
adult responsible for a minor to a reasonable standard of adult responsibility
through an objective test. It is therefore no defense that an adult responsible
for a minor was completely indifferent to the activities or conduct or
whereabouts of the minor.
   C.   “Minor” means any unemancipated person under the age of 18 years.
   D.   “Nonsecured custody” means custody in an unlocked multipurpose area,
such as a lobby, office or interrogation room that is not designed, set aside,
or used as a secure detention area, and the person arrested is not physically
secured during the period of custody in the area; the person is physically
accompanied by a law enforcement officer or a person employed by the facility
where the person arrested is being held; and the use of the area is limited to
providing nonsecured custody only while awaiting transfer to an appropriate
juvenile facility or to court, for contacting of and release to the person’s
parents or other responsible adult or for other administrative purposes; but
not for longer than six hours without the oral or written order of a judge or
magistrate authorizing the detention. A judge shall not extend the period of
time in excess of six hours beyond the initial six-hour period.
   E.   “Public place” includes stores, parking lots, parks, playgrounds,
streets, alleys, and sidewalks dedicated to public use and also includes such
parts of buildings and other premises, whether publicly or privately owned,
that are used by the general public or to which the general public is invited
commercially for a fee or otherwise; or in or on which the general public is
permitted without specific invitation; or to which the general public has
access. For purposes of this section, a vehicle or other conveyance is
considered to be a public place when in the areas defined above.
   F.   “Responsible adult” means a parent, guardian or other adult
specifically authorized by law or authorized by a parent or guardian to have
custody or control of a minor.
2.   Curfew Established. It is unlawful for any minor to be or remain upon any
of the alleys, streets, or public places or to be in places of business and
amusement in the City between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
3.   Exceptions. The following are exceptions to the curfew:
   A.   The minor is accompanied by a responsible adult.
   B.   The minor is on the sidewalk or property where the minor resides or on
either side of the place where the minor resides and the adult responsible for
the minor has given permission for the minor to be there.
   C.   The minor is present at or is traveling between home and one of the
following:
      (1)   Minor’s place of employment in a business, trade or occupation in
which the minor is permitted by law to be engaged or, if traveling, within one
hour after the end or before the beginning of work;
      (2)   Minor’s place of religious activity or, if traveling, within one
hour after the end or before the beginning of the religious activity;
      (3)   Governmental or political activity or, if traveling, within one
hour after the end or before the beginning of the activity;
      (4)   School activity or, if traveling, within one hour after the end or
before the beginning of the activity;
      (5)   Assembly such as a march, protest, demonstration, sit-in or meeting
of an association for the advancement of economic, political, religious or
cultural matters, or for any other activity protected by the First Amendment of
the U.S. Constitution guarantees of free exercise of religion, freedom of
speech, freedom of assembly or, if traveling, within one hour after the end or
before the beginning of the activity.
   D.   The minor is on an emergency errand for a responsible adult;
   E.   The minor is engaged in interstate travel through the City beginning,
ending or passing through the City when such travel is by direct route.
4.   Responsibility of Adults. It is unlawful for any responsible adult
knowingly to permit or to allow a minor to be in any public place in the City
within the time periods prohibited by this section unless the minor’s presence
falls within one of the above exceptions.
5.   Enforcement Procedures.
   A.   Determination of Age. In determining the age of the juvenile and in the
absence of convincing evidence such as a birth certificate or driver’s license,
a law enforcement officer on the street shall, in the first instance, use his
or her best judgment in determining age.
   B.   Grounds for Arrest; Conditions of Custody. Grounds for arrest are that
the person refuses to sign the citation without qualification; persists in
violating the ordinance; refuses to provide proper identification or to
identify himself or herself; or constitutes an immediate threat to the person’s
own safety or to the safety of the public. A law enforcement officer who
arrests a minor for a curfew violation may keep the minor in custody either in
a shelter care facility or in any nonsecured setting. The officer shall not
place bodily restraints, such as handcuffs, on the minor unless the minor
physically resists or threatens physical violence when being taken into
custody. A minor shall not be placed in detention following a curfew violation.
   C.   Notification of Responsible Adult. After a minor is taken into custody,
the law enforcement officer shall notify the adult responsible for the minor as
soon as possible. The minor shall be released to the adult responsible for the
minor upon the promise of such person to produce the child in court at such
time as the court may direct.
   D.   Minor Without Adult Supervision. If a law enforcement officer
determines that a minor does not have adult supervision because the law
enforcement officer cannot locate the minor’s parent, guardian or other person
legally responsible for the care of the minor, within a reasonable time, the
law enforcement officer shall attempt to place the minor with an adult relative
of the minor, an adult person who cares for the child or another adult person
who is known to the child.
6.   Penalties.
   A.   Responsible Adult’s First Violation. In the case of a first violation
by a minor, the law enforcement officer shall, by certified mail, send to the
adult responsible for the minor, written notice of the violation with a warning
that any subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of the curfew
ordinance against both the responsible adult and minor, with applicable
penalties.
   B.   Responsible Adult’s Second Violation. Any responsible adult as defined
in this section who, following receipt of a warning, knowingly allows the minor
to violate any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a municipal
infraction.
   C.   Minor’s First Violation. In the case of a first violation by a minor,
the law enforcement officer shall give the minor a written warning, which
states that any subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of the
curfew ordinance against the responsible adult and the minor, with applicable
penalties, or, at the law enforcement officer’s discretion, may issue the minor
a citation for a first violation.
   D.   Minor’s Second Violation. For the minor’s second and subsequent
violations of any of the provisions of this section, the minor is guilty of a
municipal infraction.
46.02 CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO.
It is unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to smoke, use, possess,
purchase, or attempt to purchase any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes. Possession of tobacco,
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes
by an individual under 21 years of age shall not constitute a violation of this
section if the individual under 21 years of age possesses the tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes as part
of the person’s employment and said person is employed by a person who holds a
valid permit under Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or who lawfully offers for
sale or sells cigarettes or tobacco products.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2)
46.03 CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY.
It is unlawful for any person to encourage any child under 18 years of age to
commit any act of delinquency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 709A.1)
CHAPTER 47
PARK REGULATIONS
 
47.01 Purpose                47.06 Camping
47.02 Use of Drives Required 47.07 Swimming or Wading
47.03 Fires                  47.08 Motorized Boat
47.04 Littering              47.09 Smoking and Vaping Prohibited
47.05 Parks Closed
 
47.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the enjoyment of park facilities
by the general public by establishing rules and regulations governing the use
of park facilities.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12)
47.02 USE OF DRIVES REQUIRED.
No person shall drive any car, cycle, or other vehicle, or ride or lead any
horse, in any portion of a park except upon the established drives or roadways
therein or such other places as may be officially designated by the City.
47.03 FIRES.
No fire shall be built, except in a place designated for such purpose, and such
fire shall be extinguished before leaving the area unless it is to be
immediately used by some other party.
47.04 LITTERING.
No person shall place, deposit, or throw any waste, refuse, litter, or foreign
substance in any area or receptacle except those provided for that purpose.
47.05 PARKS CLOSED.
No person, except those camping in designated areas, shall enter or remain
within any park between the hours of 11:00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m. the following
morning. Anyone present in a public park during the hours that the park is
closed shall be removed and may be prosecuted for trespassing.
47.06 CAMPING.
1.   Designated Locations. No person shall camp in any portion of a park except
in portions prescribed or designated by the Council, and the City may refuse
camping privileges or rescind any and all camping privileges for cause.
2.   Camping Time Limit. No person shall park a camper or recreational vehicle
at any City park for more than 14 consecutive calendar days.
47.07 SWIMMING OR WADING.
No persons shall be permitted to swim or wade in the pond at Horseshoe Pond
Park or at the City boat ramp at the end of North Fifth Street.
47.08 MOTORIZED BOAT.
No person shall operate any type of motorized boat and watercraft at Horseshoe
Pond Park.
47.09 SMOKING AND VAPING PROHIBITED.
Except within campers located in designated camping areas, smoking is
prohibited in City parks. Persons violating this section shall be guilty of a
municipal infraction.
CHAPTER 48
NOISE CONTROL
 
48.01 Purpose                                48.08 Inspections
48.02 Definitions                            48.09 Abatement Order
48.03 Noise Disturbances Prohibited          48.10 Separate Offenses
48.04 Specific Prohibitions                  48.11 Nuisance; Abatement
48.05 Exemptions                             48.12 Other Remedies
48.06 Permit for Relief from Chapter         48.13 Citizen Suits
48.07 Noise Sound Pressure Level Measurement
 
48.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to prevent excessive sound and vibration, which
are a serious hazard to public health and welfare, safety, and quality of life
in the City.
48.02 DEFINITIONS.
All terminology used in this chapter and not defined below shall be in
conformance with applicable publications of the American National Standards
Institute (ANSI) or its successor body.
1.   “A-weighted sound” means the sound pressure level in decibels as measured
on a sound level meter using the A-weighting network. The level so read is
designated dB(A) or dBA.
2.   “Ambient noise” means the all-encompassing noise associated with a given
environment, being usually a composite of sounds from any sources near and far.
3.   “Chief of Police” means the Chief of Police of the City or a duly
authorized officer subject to their order.
4.   “Commercial power equipment” means any equipment or device rated at more
than five horsepower and used for home or building repairs or grounds
maintenance.
5.   “Commercial premises” means any premises where offices, clinics, kennels,
shopping, and service establishments exist.
6.   “Construction” means any equipment of devices such as, but not limited to,
pile drivers, power shovels, derricks, hoist tractors, loaders, rollers,
concrete hauling motor vehicles, pavement breakers, trenchers, scrapers,
wagons, pumps, compressors, and pneumatic power equipment, or other mechanical
apparatus operated by fuel or electric power in the construction, repair or
demolition of any building, structure, land, street, alley, waterway, sewer, or
appurtenance thereto.
7.   “Decibel” means a logarithmic unit of measure often used in measuring
volume of sound. The symbol is dB.
8.   “Device” means any equipment or mechanism which is intended to produce or
which actually produces sound when operated or handled.
9.   “Domestic power equipment” means any equipment or device rated at five
horsepower or less and used for home or building repairs or grounds
maintenance.
10.   “Emergency vehicle” means a motor vehicle authorized to have sound
warning devices such as sirens and bells which can lawfully be used when
responding to an emergency or during a police activity.
11.   “Emergency work” means work made necessary to restore property to a safe
condition following a public calamity or work required to protect persons or
property from an imminent exposure to danger.
12.   “Manufacturing facility” means any premise where manufacturing,
processing, or fabrication of goods or products takes place.
13.   “Motor vehicle” means any vehicle such as, but not limited to, a
passenger vehicle, truck, truck-trailer, trailer, or semi-trailer propelled, or
drawn by mechanical power, and shall include motorcycles, snowmobiles,
minibikes, go-carts, and any other vehicle which is self-propelled.
14.   “Muffler-approved type” means an apparatus consisting of a series of
chambers, baffle plates or other mechanical devices designated for the purpose
of receiving and transmitting gases and which reduces sound emanating from such
apparatus by at least 20 decibels in the A-weighting network dB(A), from the
unmuffled condition, which is in good working order.
15.   “Noise” means sound which annoys or disturbs humans.
16.   “Noise disturbance” means any sound which:
   A.   Endangers or injures the safety or health of humans or animals, or
   B.   Annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivities, or
   C.   Endangers or injures personal or real property.
17.   “Person” means any individual, firm, corporation, association, or
organization of any kind.
18.   “Premise” means any building, structure, land, utility, or portion
thereof, including all appurtenances, and shall include yards, lots, courts,
inner yards, and real properties without buildings or improvements owned,
controlled, or occupied by a person.
19.   “Property line” means that real or imaginary line and its vertical
extension which:
   A.   Separates real property owned, controlled, or occupied by another
person; and
   B.   Separates real property from the public premises.
20.   “Public premises” means all real property including appurtenances thereon
which is owned or controlled by any public governmental entity and shall
include streets, alleys, parks, and waterways.
21.   “Residential premises” means any premises where single or multiple
dwelling units exist and shall include schools, churches, hospitals, nursing
homes, and similar institutional facilities.
22.   “Sound” means an oscillation in pressure, particle displacement, particle
velocity, or other physical parameter, in a medium with internal forces that
cause compression and rarefaction of that medium. The description of sound may
include any characteristic of such sound, including duration, intensity, and
frequency.
23.   “Sound level” means the weighted sound pressure level obtained by the use
of a sound level meter and frequency weighting network, such as A, B, or C as
specified in American National Standards Institute specifications for sound
level meters (ANSI SI.4-1971 or the latest approved revision thereof). If the
frequency weighting employed is not indicated, the A-weighting shall apply.
24.   “Sound level meter” means an apparatus or instrument including a
microphone, amplifier, attenuator, output meter, and frequency weighting
networks for the measurement of sound levels. The sound level meter shall be of
a design and have the characteristics of a Type 2 or better instrument as
established by the American National Standards Institute, publication entitled
“Specification for Sound Level Meters”.
25.   “Sound pressure” means the instantaneous difference between the actual
pressure and the average or barometric pressure at a given point in space, as
produced by sound energy.
26.   “Sound pressure level” means 20 times the logarithm, to the base 10 of
the ratio of the pressure of a sound to the reference pressure of 20
micronewtons per square meter (20 x 10 Newtons/ meter), and is expressed in
decibels (dB).
48.03 NOISE DISTURBANCES PROHIBITED.
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, cause to be made or
continued, or allow to be made or continued on any residential or commercial
premises owned, controlled, or occupied by said person, any noise disturbance.
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be made any
noise disturbances on any public premises.
48.04 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS.
The following acts and the causing thereof are declared to be in violation of
this chapter, but such enumerations are not exclusive and not intended to limit
or preclude enforcement of any other provision of this chapter.
1.   The sounding or the causing or allowing to be sounded of any horn or
signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle, streetcar or other vehicle
unless it is necessary as a warning to prevent or avoid a traffic accident; the
creating by means of any such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or
harsh sounds; or the sounding of such device for an unnecessary or unreasonable
period of time.
2.   The playing, using, operating, or the causing or allowing to be played,
used, or operated any radio, musical instrument, television set, phonograph,
loud speaker, sound amplifier, other machine, or device for the producing or
reproducing of sound at any time with louder volume than is necessary for the
convenient hearing of a reasonable person of normal sensitivity in the room,
vehicle, chamber or area in which such machine or device is operated. Any noise
exceeding the ambient noise level at the property line, at the premises
boundary, or at a distance of 25 feet from a motor vehicle or from any such
device located on a public premises by more than five decibels shall be deemed
not to be necessary for the convenient hearing of a reasonable person of normal
sensitivity.
3.   Talking, yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling, or singing between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., so as to be plainly audible at a distance of
50 feet by a reasonable person of normal sensitivity.
4.   The blowing of any locomotive steam whistle or steam whistle attached to
any stationary boiler except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work
or as a warning of fire or danger, or upon request of proper City authorities.
5.   The owning or operating of any motor vehicle or combination of motor
vehicles at any time or place when the operation of any such motor vehicle
would or does exceed the following noise sound pressure levels for the category
of motor vehicle and for the designated time period as specified in Table A;
provided that the ownership of a motor vehicle weighing more than 10,000 pounds
according to the Manufacturer’s Gross Vehicle Weight, which does not exceed 88
dB(A) when operated shall not be unlawful.
The standards in Table A shall apply to all noise emitted from motor vehicles
including any and all equipment thereon, under any condition of acceleration,
deceleration, idle, grade, or load and whether or not in motion.
 
Table A
Maximum Allowable Noise Sound Pressure Levels for Motor Vehicles
                                                                                    Maximum    Measurement
                                                                             Time   Allowable  Distance
Type of Vehicle                                                              Period Sound      from Motor
                                                                                    Pressure   Vehicle
                                                                                    Level
Motor vehicle weighing less than 10,000 lbs., manufacturer’s gross vehicle At any 80 dB(A)   25 ft.
weight                                                                       time
                                                                             7:00
Motor vehicle weighing more than 10,000 lbs., manufacturer’s gross vehicle a.m.
weight                                                                       to 10: 88 dB(A)   25 ft.
                                                                             00
                                                                             p.m.
                                                                                    80 dB(A)
                                                                                    on any
                                                                                    premises
                                                                                    or streets
                                                                                    not
                                                                                    permitting
                                                                             10:00  heavy
Motor vehicle weighing more than 10,000 lbs., manufacturer’s gross vehicle p.m.   vehicle
weight                                                                       to 7:  traffic    25 ft.
                                                                             00     88 dB(A)
                                                                             a.m.   on streets
                                                                                    and
                                                                                    highways
                                                                                    designated
                                                                                    for heavy
                                                                                    vehicle
                                                                                    traffic
 
6.   The discharging into the ambient air of the exhaust any stationary
internal combustion engine or air compressor equipment, unless such discharge
be through a muffler of the approved type as defined by Section
48.02 or through an apparatus providing equal noise reduction.
7.   The operating of an engine of any standing motor vehicle with a weight in
excess of 10,000 pounds Manufacturer’s Gross Vehicle Weight (GVW) for a period
in excess of 10 minutes when such vehicle is parked on a residential premises
or on the public premises next to a residential premises, provided however,
that vehicles confined and operated within an enclosed structure shall not be
subject to the provisions of this subsection.
8.   The erecting (including excavation), demolishing, altering, or repairing
of any building, structure, land, street, alley, waterway, sewer, or
appurtenance thereto between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following
day, except for emergency work done with a permit from the City Manager or
designated Building Official, which permit may be granted for a period not to
exceed seven days or less while the emergency continues and which permit may be
renewed for periods of seven days or less while the emergency continues. If the
City Manager or Building Official should determine that the public health and
safety will not be impaired by the erection, demolition, alteration, or repair
of any building, structure, land, street, alley, waterway, sewer, or
appurtenance thereto, and if they shall further determine that such work is
necessary to protect persons or property from an eminent exposure to danger or
an unreasonable loss of profits, they may grant permission for such work to be
done between the hours of 9:00 p.m., and 7:00 a.m. for the following day upon
application being made at the time the permit for the work is awarded or during
the progress of the work.
9.   The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers, and vendors.
10.   The using of any drum or other instrument or device for the purpose of
attracting attention by the creation of a noise to any performance, show, or
sale.
11.   The operating of any noise-creating blower or power fan or any internal
combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due to the explosion of
operating gases or fluids, including any motor vehicle or motorcycle, unless
the noise from such blower or fan is muffled and such engine is equipped with a
muffler of the approved type as defined by Section
48.02.
12.   The emitting or the causing or allowing to be emitted any noise which
leaves the premises on which it originates, crosses a property line, and enters
onto any other premises in excess of the sound pressure levels during the time
periods as specified in Table B; the emitting or the causing or allowing to be
emitted any noise within the public premises in excess of the noise sound
pressure level during the time period as specified in Table B.
48.05 EXEMPTIONS.
The following noises shall be exempt from noise level regulations:
1.   Noises of safety signals, warning devices, and emergency pressure relief
valves.
2.   Noises resulting from an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to
an emergency call or acting in time of urgency.
3.   Noises resulting from emergency work as defined in Section
48.02.
4.   Any other noise resulting from activities of a temporary duration
permitted by law and for which a license or permit therefor has been granted by
the City including, but not limited to, parades, sporting events, concerts, and
firework displays.
5.   The noises resulting from any aircraft operated in conformity with, or
pursuant to, federal law, federal air regulations, and air traffic control
instruction used pursuant to and within a duly operated federal air regulation;
and any aircraft operated under technical difficulties, in any kind of
distress, under emergency orders of air traffic control or being operated
pursuant to and subsequent to the declaration of an emergency under federal air
regulations.
6.   The noise resulting from the operation of any domestic power equipment
upon any residential, commercial, industrial, or public premises between 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. which does not exceed a sound pressure level of 80 dB(A)
when measured 25 feet from the noise source, and between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. which does not exceed the maximum sound pressure levels as
specified in Table B below.
7.   The noise resulting from the operation of any commercial power equipment
upon any residential, commercial, industrial, or public premises between 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. which does not exceed a sound pressure level of 88 dB(A)
when measured 25 feet from the noise source and between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. which does not exceed the maximum sound pressure levels as specified in
Table B below.
8.   The noises resulting from alarm systems used in case of fire, collision,
civil defense, police activity, or imminent danger.
Table B
Maximum Allowable Noise Sound Pressure Levels for Specific Premises
Type of Premises Where             Maximum Allowable Sound Location of Sound
Noise is Measured      Time Period Pressure Level          Pressure Level
                                                           Measurement
Table B
Maximum Allowable Noise Sound Pressure Levels for Specific Premises
Type of Premises                       Maximum Allowable Location of Sound
Where Noise is      Time Period        Sound Pressure    Pressure Level
Measured                               Level             Measurement
                    7:00 a.m. to 10:00 55 dB(A)          Property line or
Residential         p.m.                                 Boundary of premises
Premises            10:00 p.m. to 7:00 50 dB(A)          Property line or
                    a.m.                                 boundary of premises
                    7:00 a.m. to 10:00 65 dB(A)          Property line
Commercial Premises p.m.
                    10:00 p.m. to 7:00 60 dB(A)          Property line
                    a.m.
                    7:00 a.m. to 10:00 80 dB(A)          Property line
Industrial Premises p.m.
                    10:00 p.m. to 7:00 75 dB(A)          Property line
                    a.m.
                    7:00 a.m. to 10:00                   Property line or
                    p.m.               75 dB(A)          anywhere on public
Public Premises                                          premises
                    10:00 p.m. to 7:00                   Property line or
                    a.m.               70 dB(A)          anywhere on public
                                                         premises
 
Sound or noise projecting from one type of premises into another type of
premises with a different sound pressure level limit shall not exceed the
limits of the premises into which the noise is projected.
9.   The noises resulting from any bell, chime or similar device on any
building, clock, school, or church.
48.06 PERMIT FOR RELIEF FROM CHAPTER.
Application for permit for relief from this chapter on the basis of undue
hardship may be made to the Council or its duly authorized representative. Any
permit granted by the Council hereunder shall contain all conditions upon which
said permit has been granted and shall specify a reasonable time the permit
shall be effective. The Council or its duly authorized representative may grant
the relief as applied for if it finds:
1.   That additional time is necessary for the applicant to alter or modify
their activity or operation to comply with this chapter; or
2.   The activity, operation or noise source will be of temporary duration, and
cannot be in a manner that would comply with other subsections of this chapter;
and
3.   That no other reasonable alternative is available to the applicant.
The Council may prescribe any condition or requirement it deems necessary to
minimize adverse effects upon the community or the surrounding neighborhood.
48.07 NOISE SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL MEASUREMENT.
For the purpose of determining noise sound pressure levels as set forth in this
chapter, the following test procedures and measurements are applicable:
1.   The instrumentation for determining noise sound pressure levels shall be
with a sound level meter of standard design as defined in this chapter. Sound
pressure level measurements shall be made with the A-weighting network.
2.   Noise sound pressure level(s) shall be measured at a linear distance of 25
feet from the noise source or at the property line or other premises boundary
as specified in this chapter. Whenever it is impossible or impractical to
measure the noise sound pressure level(s) at 25 feet or at the property line or
other premises boundary, a greater distance from the noise source shall be used
to determine compliance with this chapter.
48.08 INSPECTIONS.
1.   For the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of this
chapter, the Chief of Police is hereby authorized to make inspections of all
noise sources and to take measurements and tests whenever necessary to
determine the quantity and character of noise. In the event that any person
refuses or restricts entry and free access to any part of a premises, or
refuses inspection, testing, or noise measurement of any activity, device,
facility, motor vehicle, or process where inspection is sought, the Chief of
Police may seek from a court of competent jurisdiction a warrant for inspection
requiring that such person permit entry and free access without interference,
restriction, or obstruction, at a reasonable time, for the purpose of
inspecting, testing, or measuring noise.
2.   It shall be unlawful for any reason to refuse to allow or permit the Chief
of Police, or their authorized representative, free access to any premises when
a warrant for inspection and order has been issued by the Court.
3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate the provisions of any
warrant or court order requiring inspection, testing, or measurement of noise
or noise services.
4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, obstruct, delay, resist,
prevent in any way, interfere with any authorized person while in the
performance of their duties under this chapter.
48.09 ABATEMENT ORDER.
The department responsible for enforcement of this chapter may issue an order
requiring abatement of any noise alleged to be in violation of this chapter. If
the abatement order is not complied with, or if no abatement order is issued,
the alleged violator shall be charged and punished pursuant to Section
48.10.
48.10 SEPARATE OFFENSES.
Each day a violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable as such. It shall be unlawful for any
person to misrepresent or give any false or inaccurate information or in any
way attempt to deceive the Chief of Police or their authorized representative
in order to avoid compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
48.11 NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
The operation or maintenance of any device, instrument, vehicle, or machinery
in violation of any provision of this chapter is declared to be a public
nuisance and may be subject to abatement summarily by a restraining order or
injunction issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
48.12 OTHER REMEDIES.
No provision of this chapter shall be construed to impair any statutory, legal,
or common law remedy of any person for injury or damage arising from any
violation of this chapter.
48.13 CITIZEN SUITS.
Any person may commence a civil action on their own behalf against any person
who is alleged to be in violation of this chapter. The County District Court
shall have jurisdiction to grant such relief as it deems necessary. The Court,
in issuing any final order in any action brought pursuant to this section, may,
at its discretion, award the costs of litigation, including attorney fees, to
any party to the action.
CHAPTER 50
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
 
50.01 Definition of Nuisance 50.05 Nuisance Abatement
50.02 Nuisances Enumerated   50.06 Abatement of Nuisance by Written Notice
50.03 Other Conditions       50.07 Municipal Infraction Abatement Procedure
50.04 Nuisances Prohibited   50.08 Adult Establishments
 
50.01 DEFINITION OF NUISANCE.
Whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or unreasonably offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is a
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.1)
50.02 NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions that are
deemed to be nuisances in the City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.2)
1.   Offensive Smells. Erecting, continuing, or using any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture that, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, unreasonably offensive smells, or other
annoyances, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort, or property
of individuals or the public.
2.   Filth or Noisome Substance. Causing or suffering any offal, filth, or
noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place to the prejudice of
others.
3.   Impeding Passage of Navigable River. Obstructing or impeding without legal
authority the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or collection of water.
4.   Water Pollution. Corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the water
of any river, stream, or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from its
natural course or state, to the injury or prejudice of others.
5.   Blocking Public and Private Ways. Obstructing or encumbering, by fences,
buildings or otherwise, the public roads, private ways, streets, alleys,
commons, landing places, or burying grounds.
6.   Billboards. Billboards, signboards, and advertising signs, whether erected
and constructed on public or private property, that so obstruct and impair the
view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway, boulevard, or
alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render dangerous the use
thereof. (See also Section
62.06) 
7.   Storing of Flammable Junk. Depositing or storing of flammable junk, such
as old rags, rope, cordage, rubber, bones and paper, by dealers in such
articles within the fire limits of the City, unless in a building of fireproof
construction. (See also
Chapter 51) 
8.   Air Pollution. Emission of dense smoke, noxious fumes, or fly ash.
9.   Weeds. Any condition relating to weeds which is described as a nuisance in
the Municipal Code of Ordinances or under State law. Dense growth of all weeds,
vines, brush, or other vegetation in the City so as to constitute a health,
safety, or fire hazard, including any City-owned property between the abutting
property line and the street right-of-way. Any condition related to weeds
described or defined as a nuisance under the Code of Iowa or the City Code. No
person shall allow any plants to grow uncultivated and out of context with the
surrounding plant life when such plant has a seed head formed or forming and
with a height of eight inches or more, nor shall any person allow their grass
to grow unattended with a consistent height above eight inches.
10.   Dutch Elm Disease. Trees infected with Dutch elm disease. (See also
Chapter 151)
11.   Airport Air Space. Any object or structure hereafter erected within 1,000
feet of the limits of any municipal or regularly established airport or landing
place, which may endanger or obstruct aerial navigation including take-off and
landing, unless such object or structure constitutes a proper use or enjoyment
of the land on which the same is located.
12.   Houses of Ill Fame. Houses of ill fame, kept for the purpose of
prostitution and lewdness; gambling houses; places resorted to by persons
participating in criminal gang activity prohibited by Chapter 723A of the Code
of Iowa or places resorted to by persons using controlled substances, as
defined in Section 124.101 of the Code of Iowa, in violation of law, or houses
where drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, or breaches of the peace are carried
on or permitted to the disturbance of others.
13.   Any water service line constructed of lead.
14.   Any equipment or other structure erected in the right-of-way by any
utility or private owner which is not kept in good repair, is unsightly due to
lack of maintenance, or which is dilapidated or broken such that the equipment
or structure is dangerous, or offensive to the senses, or unsightly.
15.   The use of amplified sound creating a disturbance or annoyance to others
and can be plainly heard of 50 feet from the source of the amplified sound.
16.   The erection, excavation, demolition, alteration, repair, or construction
of any building or other property between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m.,
except in the case of an emergency of a public health and safety nature, with
the approval of the City.
17.   Pipes lumber, drywall, flooring, roofing shingles, and other building
material left on the property visible from the public right-of-way or adjoining
property for a period of time exceeding 72 hours.
50.03 OTHER CONDITIONS.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other conditions that are deemed to be nuisances:
1.   Noise Control (See
Chapter 48)
2.   Junk and Junk Vehicles (See
Chapter 51)
3.   Weeds and Grass (See
Chapter 52)
4.   Backyard Chickens (See
Chapter 58)
5.   Beekeeping Standards (See
Chapter 59)
6.   Storage and Disposal of Solid Waste (See
Chapter 105)
7.   Rental Property Standards (See Section
125.11)
8.   Vacant Building Registration (See
Chapter 127)
9.   Dangerous Buildings (See
Chapter 145)
10.   Trees (See
Chapter 151)
50.04 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited, and a nuisance, public
or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in this chapter or State
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.3)
50.05 NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
Whenever any authorized municipal officer finds that a nuisance exists, such
officer has the authority to determine on a case-by-case basis whether to
utilize the nuisance abatement procedure described in Section
50.06 of this chapter or the municipal infraction procedure referred to in
Section
50.07.  
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
50.06 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY WRITTEN NOTICE.
Any nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in
this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
1.   Contents of Notice to Property Owner. The notice to abate shall contain: †
1
  
   A.   Description of Nuisance. A description of what constitutes the
nuisance.
   B.   Location of Nuisance. The location of the nuisance.
   C.   Acts Necessary to Abate. A statement of the act or acts necessary to
abate the nuisance.
   D.   Reasonable Time. A reasonable time within which to complete the
abatement.
   E.   Assessment of City Costs. A statement that if the nuisance or condition
is not abated as directed and no request for hearing is made within the time
prescribed, the City will abate it and assess the costs against the property
owner.
2.   Method of Service. The notice may be in the form of an ordinance or sent
by certified mail to the property owner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
3.   Request for Hearing. Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a
hearing with the Council as to whether a nuisance exists. A request for a
hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the Clerk within the time
stated in the notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that a nuisance
exists and it must be abated as ordered. The hearing will be before the Council
at a time and place fixed by the Council. The findings of the Council shall be
conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered abated
within a reasonable time under the circumstances.
4.   Abatement in Emergency. If it is determined that an emergency exists by
reason of the continuing maintenance of the nuisance or condition, the City may
perform any action that may be required under this chapter without prior
notice. The City shall assess the costs as provided in Subsection 6 of this
section after notice to the property owner under the applicable provisions of
Subsections 1 and 2, and the hearing as provided in Subsection 3.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
5.   Abatement by City. If the person notified to abate a nuisance or condition
neglects or fails to abate as directed, the City may perform the required
action to abate, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred. The
itemized expense account shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall pay such
expenses on behalf of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
6.   Collection of Costs. The Clerk shall send a statement of the total expense
incurred by certified mail to the property owner who has failed to abide by the
notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has not been paid
within one month, the Clerk shall certify the costs to the County Treasurer and
such costs shall then be collected with, and in the same manner as, general
property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
7.   Installment Payment of Cost of Abatement. If the amount expended to abate
the nuisance or condition exceeds $500.00, the City may permit the assessment
to be paid in up to 10 annual installments, to be paid in the same manner and
with the same interest rates provided for assessments against benefited
property under State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.13)
8.   Failure to Abate. Any person causing or maintaining a nuisance who shall
fail or refuse to abate or remove the same within the reasonable time required
and specified in the notice to abate is in violation of this Code of
Ordinances.
 
Notes
  †  EDITOR’S NOTE: A suggested form of notice for the abatement of nuisances is
  included in the Appendix of this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use of
  this administrative abatement procedure, particularly where cost of abatement is
1 more than minimal or where there is doubt as to whether or not a nuisance does in
  fact exist. If compliance is not secured following notice and hearings, we
  recommend you review the situation with your attorney before proceeding with
  abatement and assessment of costs. Your attorney may recommend proceedings in court
  under Chapter 657 of the Code of Iowa rather than this procedure.
50.07 MUNICIPAL INFRACTION ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
In lieu of the abatement procedures set forth in Section
50.06, the requirements of this chapter may be enforced under the procedures
applicable to municipal infractions as set forth in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
50.08   ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS.
1.   As used in this section, “adult establishment” means any business that
provides nude or topless dancing or operates any other adult-oriented business.
2.   A public safety nuisance exists when it is established by clear and
convincing evidence that an owner, manager, employee, contemporaneous patron,
or guest of an adult establishment commits any of the following acts either on
the premises or in any parking lots or areas, including but not limited to
public rights-of-way, adjacent to the premises:
   A.   Unlawfully discharges a firearm or uses an offensive weapon, as defined
in Section 724.1 of the Code of Iowa, regardless of whether it inflicts injury
or death.
   B.   Assaults another person with a dangerous weapon as defined in Section
702.7 of the Code of Iowa resulting in injury or death.
   C.   Engages in a riot as defined in Section 723.1 of the Code of Iowa on
three or more dates within a 12-month period to which the police respond and
disperse a crowd. The participants need not be the same persons for each
incident.
3.   When the City Attorney believes a serious threat to the public safety
exists, the City Attorney or any other attorney on behalf of the City Attorney,
may file a suit in equity in the district court without bond seeking abatement
of the public safety nuisance arising from an adult establishment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.12)
(Section 50.08 – Ord._1232 – Oct. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 51
JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES
 
51.01 Definitions                       51.04 Exceptions
51.02 Junk and Junk Vehicles Prohibited 51.05 Notice to Abate
51.03 Junk and Junk Vehicles a Nuisance
 
51.01 DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
1.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other non-
ferrous metal; old or discarded rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste or used lumber, or salvaged wood; dismantled vehicles, machinery,
and appliances or parts of such vehicles, machinery, or appliances; iron,
steel, or other old or scrap ferrous materials; old or discarded glass,
tinware, plastic or old or discarded household goods or hardware. Neatly
stacked firewood located on a side yard or a rear yard is not considered junk.
Rusty, deteriorated, dilapidated, or unusable play equipment visible from any
adjoining property.
2.   “Junk vehicle” means any vehicle legally placed in storage with the County
Treasurer or unlicensed and having any of the following characteristics:
   A.   Broken Glass. Any vehicle with a broken or cracked windshield, window,
headlight or tail light, or any other cracked or broken glass.
   B.   Broken, Loose, or Missing Part. Any vehicle with a broken, loose, or
missing fender, door, bumper, hood, steering wheel, or trunk lid.
   C.   Habitat for Nuisance Animals or Insects. Any vehicle that has become
the habitat for rats, mice, snakes, or any other vermin or insects.
   D.   Flammable Fuel. Any vehicle that contains gasoline or any other
flammable fuel.
   E.   Inoperable. Any motor vehicle that lacks an engine or two or more
wheels or other structural parts, rendering said motor vehicle totally
inoperable, or that cannot be moved under its own power or has not been used as
an operating vehicle for a period of 30 days or more.
   F.   Defective or Obsolete Condition. Any other vehicle that, because of its
defective or obsolete condition, in any other way constitutes a threat to the
public health and safety.
Mere licensing of such vehicle shall not constitute a defense to the finding
that the vehicle is a junk vehicle.
3.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which a person or property is
or may be transported or drawn upon a highway or street, except devices moved
by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and
includes without limitation a motor vehicle, automobile, truck, motorcycle,
tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery, or any combination thereof.
51.02 JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any person to store, accumulate, or allow to remain on any
private property within the corporate limits of the City any junk or junk
vehicle.
51.03 JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES A NUISANCE.
It is hereby declared that any junk or junk vehicle located upon private
property, unless excepted by Section
51.04, constitutes a threat to the health and safety of the citizens and is a
nuisance within the meaning of Section 657.1 of the Code of Iowa. If any junk
or junk vehicle is kept upon private property in violation hereof, the owner of
or person occupying the property upon which it is located shall be prima facie
liable for said violation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
51.04 EXCEPTIONS.
The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any junk or a junk vehicle
stored within:
1.   Structure. A garage or other enclosed structure; or
2.   Salvage Yard. An auto salvage yard or junk yard lawfully operated within
the City.
51.05 NOTICE TO ABATE.
Upon discovery of any junk or junk vehicle located upon private property in
violation of Section
51.03, the City shall within five days initiate abatement procedures as
outlined in
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
CHAPTER 52
WEEDS AND GRASS
 
52.01 Definitions                                   52.04 Failure to Comply
52.02 Maintenance of Boulevard and Private Property 52.05 Notice to Owners
52.03 Exceptions
 
52.01 DEFINITIONS.
The following words and phrases whenever used in the ordinances of the City,
shall be construed as defined in this section unless, from the context, a
different meaning is intended or unless different meaning is specifically
defined and more particularly directed to the use of such words or phrases:
1.   “Boulevard” means the property outside a property owner’s lot and property
lines and inside the curb lines upon the public streets, or in the absence of a
curb from the traveled portion of the public street to the lot or property
line.
2.   “Inspector” means the City Inspector or their designee.
3.   “Naturalized area” means a garden cultivated with native and non-native
perennial flowering plants including, but not limited to, aster, bee balm,
black-eyed Susan, blazing star, coneflower, hyssop, mint, and phlox.
4.   “Private property” means all real estate within the owner’s property or
lot lines as shown on the plats of the County Auditor.
5.   “Property owner” means the owner of real estate as shown in the records of
the County Auditor.
6.   “Public street” means the area from curb to curb or in the absence of
curbing, the traveled portion of a public street, highway, road, or alley
within the City limits.
7.   “Waterway” means a river, lake, pond, stream, creek, wetland, or other
watercourse and adjacent banks.
8.   “Zone” and “areas zoned” means the R-1, R-2, R-3, B-1, B-2, I-1, I-2, or
I-3 districts with boundaries established under Sections
165.03 – 165.10 of this Code of Ordinances and set forth upon the Official
Zoning Map as it may, from time to time, be amended.
52.02 MAINTENANCE OF BOULEVARD AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
All property owners shall maintain their property and the abutting boulevard
according to the following standards:
1.   In districts zoned R-1, R-2, R-3, B-1, or B-2, all grasses, weeds, vines,
and brush shall be cut or destroyed when said growth exceeds six inches in
height.
2.   In areas zoned other than R-1, R-2, R-3, B-1, or B-2, all grasses, weeds,
vines, and brush shall be cut or destroyed when said growth exceeds 10 inches
in height.
3.   In the boulevard in all districts, all grasses and plants shall be cut or
destroyed when said growth exceeds 12 inches in height.
4.   Keep the abutting boulevard free of holes, excavations, protrusions, or
other obstacles which could cause injury to the public.
5.   Further, it shall be unlawful to discharge into the storm sewer system any
yard waste, sticks or branches, garbage or trash, sand or silt, or any other
material in such a way as obstruct the system from functioning properly. It
shall also be unlawful to discharge or place such materials into a public
right-of-way (such as a street) in a manner likely to cause these materials to
eventually accumulate in the storm sewer system or create a safety hazard.
6.   In all zoning districts, the abutting property owner is required to
maintain all abutting boulevard property, except that a property owner is not
required to remove diseased trees or dead wood on the publicly owned property
or right-of-way. This duty to maintain abutting boulevard property includes,
but is not limited to, the duty to maintain sidewalks, grass areas, and any
retaining walls located on the publicly owned property or right-of-way.
52.03 EXCEPTIONS.
1.   “Street trees” as that term is defined in
Chapter 151, are hereby excepted from the requirements and enforcement of this
chapter.
2.   Waterways may exceed the standards established by this chapter, except
that any growth of weeds, vines, or brush shall be cut or destroyed when such
growth exceeds two feet in height.
3.   Farm crops, pasture, vineyards, orchards, and garden plants grown or
located on private property may exceed the requirements of this chapter.
However, weeds and brush in such areas shall be cut when the height of such
weeds or brush exceeds two feet.
4.   The owner of a hillside, waterway, or gully located on private property
may make application to the City Inspector to exceed the requirements of this
chapter for the hillside, waterway, or gully located on private property; and,
upon receipt of such an application, the Council shall make a finding whether
or not the hillside, waterway, or gully located on private property may be
maintained as a natural area. However, weeds and brush in such areas shall be
cut when the height of such weeds or brush exceeds two feet.
5.   The City Inspector may make a similar application for hillsides,
waterways, and gullies located on publicly owned property.
6.   Applications to maintain hillsides, waterways, and gullies as naturalized
areas shall be reviewed and approved by the City Manager and records shall be
kept by the Clerk.
52.04 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
If the property owner fails to maintain the property as required under this
chapter after notice is given as provided in this chapter, the Inspector shall
order the work to be done by City employees or by a contractor. The total cost
and expense of the work done, including any administrative fees, shall be paid
by the property owner. Failure to pay shall result in the cost being assessed
against the property for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
52.05 NOTICE TO OWNERS.
Notice to the owner or person in control of lands within the City subject to
the provision of this chapter shall be as follows: The City Manager or their
designee shall cause to be published at least once per mowing season
(preferably on or before April 15 of each year) in a newspaper of general
circulation within the City a notice stating that work of cutting or destroying
weeds, vines, brush, or other growth is required to be done during the months
of May through October, inclusive, and a statement that property owners have
three days, not including Saturdays, Sundays, holidays within which such owners
may cause the work to be done. Further, the notice shall state that failure to
comply after publication of the notice will result in the work being done by
the City, and the costs incurred by the City shall be assessed against the
property in the manner provided by law. No further notice shall be required. In
addition, this notice shall inform the property owner that they have the right
to appeal that matter to the City Manager under
Chapter 50.
CHAPTER 53
ADMINISTRATIVE PROPERTY ENFORCEMENT
 
53.01  General             53.05 Penalty and Payment
53.02 Definitions          53.06 Contesting an Administrative Property Citation
53.03 Offenses             53.07 Other Remedies
53.04  Notice of Violation
 
53.01   GENERAL.
The City of Maquoketa, in accordance with its police powers, may
administratively enforce its ordinances to reduce costs incurred by the City to
enforce property-based regulations identified herein.
53.02   DEFINITIONS.   
The following terms are defined as used in this section:
1.   “Administrative Property Citation” means a notice of fine generated in
connection with the City’s Administrative Property Enforcement.
2.   “Property Owner” means the person or entity identified by the real estate
records of the Jackson County, Iowa Assessor’s office.
3.   “Tenant” means any person who occupies the whole or a part of a building
or land, whether alone or with others, pursuant to a written lease or rental
agreement of a registered rental property, pursuant to
Chapter 125.
53.03   OFFENSES.
Violations of the following Maquoketa Iowa Code of Ordinances may be enforced
through the administrative procedures set forth in this chapter, and may be
issued to the property owner or a tenant of the property on which the violation
occurred, within the discretion of the issuing officer.
1.   Dog at Large – Section
55.06 At Large Prohibited
2.   Dogs and Cats as a Nuisance – Section
55.19 Actions of Dogs and Cats Constituting a Nuisance
3.   Unlicensed Cat or Dog –
Chapter 56 Dog and Cat License Required
4.   Fireworks – Section
41.14 Fireworks
5.   Noise – Section
48.03 Noise Disturbances Prohibited
6.   Grass – Section
154.02 Maintenance of Boulevard and Private Property
7.   Snow – Section
136.03 Removal of Snow, Ice and Accumulations
8.   Open Burning – Section
105.05 Open Burning
9.   Curfew – Section
46.01 Curfew
10.   Littering Prohibited – Section
105.09,
47.04
11.   Overweight Vehicle – The driver of a vehicle shall be liable for a fine
imposed under Section
53.05, if such vehicle is determined to be an overweight vehicle on a City
street other than specifically required under Section
66.03 Load Limits Upon Certain Streets. The citation will in no event be sent
or reported to the Iowa Department of Transportation or similar department of
any other state for the purpose of being added to the vehicle owner’s driving
record.
53.04   NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
Notice of the violation shall be made by the issuance of an Administrative
Traffic Citation either personally provided by a police officer or Building
Inspector at the time of the violation or sent by ordinary mail to the person
or property owner for each applicable violation under this chapter. The notice
shall include the name and address of the property owner; the violation
charged; the time, the date, and location of the alleged violation; the
applicable fine; information as to the availability of an appeal in which the
notice may be contested on its merits; and that the basis of the hearing in
which the notice may be contested on its merits.
53.05   PENALTY AND PAYMENT.
Any violation of Section
53.03 above shall be subject to a civil fine of $60.00 payable to the City at
the Maquoketa Police Department. Payment shall be made within 30 days of the
date of the Administrative Property Citation. If payment is not made within 30
days, the fine shall increase to $90.00.
53.06   CONTESTING AN ADMINISTRATIVE PROPERTY CITATION.
1.   Appeal. By submitting in a form specified by the City, a request that in
lieu of the Administrative Property Citation, a municipal infraction be issued
and filed with the State District Court in the County. Such a request must be
filed within 30 days from the date of the Administrative Property Citation sent
to the property owner or tenant, as applicable. Such a request will result in a
court order requiring the property owner or tenant to file an answer and
appearance with the Clerk of Court, as well as setting the matter for trial
before a judge. If the court finds the property owner or tenant guilty of the
municipal infraction, State mandated court costs and fees, if applicable, will
be added to the amount of the fine imposed by this section or underlying
chapter.
2.   Failure to timely pay or appeal. If the recipient of an Administrative
Property Citation does not either pay the fine by the due date stated in the
citation or appeal the citation provided herein, a municipal infraction may be
filed by the City Police Department or at the direction of the City, in
accordance with the City’s ordinances. The civil penalties for the violation
shall be as set forth in this chapter or the underlying chapter for each
alleged violation. If the court finds the person or property owner guilty of
the municipal infraction, State mandated court costs and fees, if applicable,
will be added to the amount of the fine imposed by this section or underlying
chapter. Further, failure to pay or contest liability within the required time
frame set forth above shall be considered an admission of liability and waiver
of the right to an appeal hearing. As an alternative to filing a municipal
infraction, the City may use alternative collection methods to collect unpaid
administrative property citations, as permitted by law.
53.07   OTHER REMEDIES.
No provision of this chapter shall be construed to impair, limit, or restrict
any application of any other Chapter of the Maquoketa Code of Ordinances or any
other statutory, legal, or common law remedies governing the same or similar
provisions herein.
CHAPTER 55
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND CONTROL
55.01 Definitions                  55.12 Confinement
55.02 Animal Neglect               55.13 At Large: Impoundment
55.03 Livestock Neglect            55.14 Disposition of Animals
55.04 Abandonment of Cats and Dogs 55.15 Impounding Costs
55.05 Livestock                    55.16 Pet Awards Prohibited
55.06 At Large Prohibited          55.17 Tampering with A Rabies Vaccination
                                   Tag
55.07 Damage or Interference       55.18 Tampering with An Electronic Handling
                                   Device
55.08 Annoyance or Disturbance     55.19 Actions of Dogs and Cats Constituting
                                   a Nuisance
55.09 Vicious Dogs                 55.20 Animal Excrement
55.10 Rabies Vaccination           55.21 Exception to Animal Excrement
55.11 Owner’s Duty
 
55.01 DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
1.   “Advertise” means to present a commercial message in any medium, including
(but not limited to) print, radio, television, sign, display, label, tag, or
articulation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
2.   “Animal” means a nonhuman vertebrate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.1)
3.   “Animal shelter” means a facility which is used to house or contain dogs
or cats, or both, and which is owned, operated, or maintained by an
incorporated humane society, animal welfare society, society for the prevention
of cruelty to animals, or other nonprofit organization devoted to the welfare,
protection, and humane treatment of such animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
4.   “At large” means off the premises of the owner and not under the control
of a competent person, restrained within a motor vehicle, or housed in a
veterinary hospital or kennel, on a leash or “at heel” beside a competent
person and obedient to that person’s command.
5.   “Business” means any enterprise relating to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   A.   The sale or offer for sale of goods or services.
   B.   A recruitment for employment or membership in an organization.
   C.   A solicitation to make an investment.
   D.   An amusement or entertainment activity.
6.   “Cats” means both male and female animals of the feline species whether
altered or not.
7.   “Commercial establishment” means an animal shelter, boarding kennel,
commercial breeder, commercial kennel, dealer, pet shop, pound, public auction,
or research facility.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
8.   “Dogs” means both male and female animals of the canine species whether
altered or not.
9.   “Fair” means any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   A.   The annual fair and exposition held by the Iowa State Fair Board
pursuant to Chapter 173 of the Code of Iowa or any fair event conducted by a
fair under the provisions of Chapter 174 of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   An exhibition of agricultural or manufactured products.
   C.   An event for operation of amusement rides or devices or concession
booths.
10.   “Game” means a “game of chance” or “game of skill” as defined in Section
99B.1 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
11.   “Injury” means an animal’s disfigurement; the impairment of an animal’s
health; or an impairment to the functioning of an animal’s limb or organ, or
the loss of an animal’s limb or organ.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
12.   “Kennel” means any person or person’s firm, association or corporation
keeping, sheltering, or harboring a dog and/or cat.
13.   “Livestock” means an animal belonging to the bovine, caprine, equine,
ovine or porcine species, ostriches, rheas, and emus; farm deer (as defined in
Section 170.1 of the Code of Iowa); or poultry.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.1)
14.   “Owner” means any person owning, keeping, sheltering, or harboring an
animal.
15.   “Pet” means a living dog, cat, or an animal normally maintained in a
small tank or cage in or near a residence, including but not limited to a
rabbit, gerbil, hamster, mouse, parrot, canary, mynah, finch, tropical fish,
goldfish, snake, turtle, gecko, or iguana.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
16.   “Pound” means a facility for the prevention of cruelty to animals
operated by the State, a municipal corporation, or other political subdivision
of the State for the purpose of impounding or harboring seized stray, homeless,
abandoned, or unwanted dogs, cats, or other animals; or a facility operated for
such a purpose under a contract with any municipal corporation or incorporated
society.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
17.   “Research facility” means any school or college of medicine, veterinary
medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, or osteopathic medicine, or hospital, diagnostic
or research laboratories, or other educational or scientific establishment
situated in the State concerned with the investigation of, or instruction
concerning the structure or function of living organisms, the cause,
prevention, control, or cure of diseases or abnormal conditions of human beings
or animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
18.   “Veterinarian” means a veterinarian licensed pursuant to Chapter 169 of
the Code of Iowa who practices veterinary medicine in the State.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
55.02 ANIMAL NEGLECT.
1.   It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of an animal and
confines that animal to fail to provide the animal with any of the following
conditions for the animal’s welfare:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.3)
   A.   Access to food in an amount and quality reasonably sufficient to
satisfy the animal’s basic nutrition level to the extent that the animal’s
health or life is endangered.
   B.   Access to a supply of potable water in an amount reasonably sufficient
to satisfy the animal’s basic hydration level to the extent that the animal’s
health or life is endangered.  Access to snow or ice does not satisfy this
requirement.
   C.   Sanitary conditions free from excessive animal waste or the
overcrowding of animals to the extent that the animal’s health or life is
endangered.
   D.   Ventilated shelter reasonably sufficient to provide adequate protection
from the elements and weather conditions suitable for the age, species, and
physical condition of the animal so as to maintain the animal in a state of
good health to the extent that the animal’s health or life is endangered. The
shelter must protect the animal from wind, rain, snow, or sun and have adequate
bedding to provide reasonable protection against cold and dampness. A shelter
may include a residence, garage, barn, shed, or doghouse.
   E.   Grooming, to the extent it is reasonably necessary to prevent adverse
health effects or suffering.
   F.   Veterinary care deemed necessary by a reasonably prudent person to
relieve an animal’s distress from any of the following:
      (1)   A condition caused by failing to provide for the animal’s welfare
as described in this section.
      (2)   An injury or illness suffered by the animal causing the animal to
suffer prolonged pain and suffering.
2.   This section does not apply to any of the following:
   A.   A person operating a commercial establishment under a valid
authorization issued or renewed under Section 162.2A of the Code of Iowa, or a
person acting under the direction or supervision of that person, if all of the
following apply:
      (1)   The animal, as described in Subsection 1, was maintained as part of
the commercial establishment’s operation.
      (2)   In providing conditions for the welfare of the animal, as described
in Subsection 1, the person complied with the standard of care requirements
provided in Section 162.10A[1] of the Code of Iowa, including any applicable
rules adopted by the Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship applying
to: (i) a State licensee or registrant operating pursuant to Section 162.10A
[2a] or [2b] of the Code of Iowa; or (ii) a permittee operating pursuant to
Section 162.10A[2c] of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   A research facility if the research facility has been issued or renewed
a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship
pursuant to Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa, and performs functions within the
scope of accepted practices and disciplines associated with the research
facility.
55.03 LIVESTOCK NEGLECT.
It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines livestock in any place to
fail to provide the livestock with care consistent with customary animal
husbandry practices, or to deprive the livestock of necessary sustenance, or to
injure or destroy livestock by any means that causes pain or suffering in a
manner inconsistent with customary animal husbandry practices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.2)
55.04 ABANDONMENT OF CATS AND DOGS.
It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of a cat or dog to
relinquish all rights in and duties to care for the cat or dog. This section
does not apply to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.8)
1.   The delivery of a cat or dog to another person who will accept ownership
and custody of the cat or dog.
2.   The delivery of a cat or dog to an animal shelter or pound or that has
been issued or renewed a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture
and Land Stewardship under Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa.
3.   A person who relinquishes custody of a cat at a location in which the
person does not hold a legal or equitable interest, if previously the person
had taken custody of the cat at the same location and provided for the cat’s
sterilization by a veterinarian.
55.05 LIVESTOCK.
It is unlawful for a person to keep livestock within the City except by written
consent of the Council or except in compliance with the City’s zoning
regulations.
55.06 AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any owner to allow an animal to run at large within the
corporate limits of the City.
55.07 DAMAGE OR INTERFERENCE.
It is unlawful for the owner of an animal to allow or permit such animal to
pass upon the premises of another thereby causing damage to, or interference
with, the premises.
55.08 ANNOYANCE OR DISTURBANCE.
It is unlawful for the owner of a dog to allow or permit such dog to cause
serious annoyance or disturbance to any person by frequent and habitual
howling, yelping, barking, or otherwise, or by running after or chasing
persons, bicycles, automobiles, or other vehicles.
55.09 VICIOUS DOGS.
See
Chapter 57.
55.10 RABIES VACCINATION.
Every owner of a dog shall obtain a rabies vaccination for such animal. It is
unlawful for any person to own or have a dog in said person’s possession, six
months of age or over, which has not been vaccinated against rabies. Dogs kept
in State or federally licensed kennels and not allowed to run at large are not
subject to these vaccination requirements.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.33)
55.11 OWNER’S DUTY.
It is the duty of the owner of any dog, cat, or other animal that has bitten or
attacked a person or any person having knowledge of such bite or attack to
report this act to a local health or law enforcement official. It is the duty
of physicians and veterinarians to report to the local board of health the
existence of any animal known or suspected to be suffering from rabies.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.38)
55.12 CONFINEMENT.
If a local board of health receives information that an animal has bitten a
person or that a dog or animal is suspected of having rabies, the board shall
order the owner to confine such animal in the manner it directs. If the owner
fails to confine such animal in the manner directed, the animal shall be
apprehended and impounded by such board, and after 10 days the board may
humanely destroy the animal. If such animal is returned to its owner, the owner
shall pay the cost of impoundment. This section does not apply if a police
service dog or a horse used by a law enforcement agency and acting in the
performance of its duties has bitten a person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.39)
55.13 AT LARGE: IMPOUNDMENT.
Animals found at large in violation of this chapter shall be seized and
impounded, or at the discretion of the peace officer, the owner may be served a
summons to appear before a proper court to answer charges made thereunder.
55.14 DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
When an animal has been apprehended and impounded, written notice shall be
provided to the owner within two days after impoundment, if the owner’s name
and current address can reasonably be determined by accessing a tag or other
device that is on or part of the animal. Impounded animals may be recovered by
the owner upon payment of impounding costs, and if an unvaccinated dog, by
having it immediately vaccinated. If the owner fails to redeem the animal
within seven days from the date that the notice is mailed, or if the owner
cannot be located within seven days, the animal shall be disposed of in
accordance with law or destroyed by euthanasia.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.37, 351.41)
55.15 IMPOUNDING COSTS.
Impounding costs are $20.00 for the first day or any part thereof, and $5.00
per day thereafter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.37)
55.16 PET AWARDS PROHIBITED.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 717E)
1.   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to award a pet or advertise
that a pet may be awarded as any of the following:
   A.   A prize for participating in a game.
   B.   A prize for participating in a fair.
   C.   An inducement or condition for visiting a place of business or
attending an event sponsored by a business.
   D.   An inducement or condition for executing a contract that includes
provisions unrelated to the ownership, care, or disposition of the pet.
2.   Exceptions. This section does not apply to any of the following:
   A.   A pet shop licensed pursuant to Section 162.5 of the Code of Iowa if
the award of a pet is provided in connection with the sale of a pet on the
premises of the pet shop.
   B.   Youth programs associated with 4-H Clubs; Future Farmers of America;
the Izaak Walton League of America; or organizations associated with outdoor
recreation, hunting, or fishing, including but not limited to the Iowa
Sportsmen’s Federation.
55.17 TAMPERING WITH A RABIES VACCINATION TAG.
It is unlawful to tamper with a rabies vaccination tag.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.45)
1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with a rabies vaccination tag if
all of the following apply:
   A.   The person knowingly removes, damages, or destroys a rabies vaccination
tag as described in Section 351.35 of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   The rabies vaccination tag is attached to a collar worn by a dog,
including as provided in Sections 351.25 and 351.26 of the Code of Iowa.
2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
   A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized to
take action by the owner.
   B.   A peace officer.
   C.   A veterinarian.
   D.   An animal shelter or pound.
55.18 TAMPERING WITH AN ELECTRONIC HANDLING DEVICE.
It is unlawful to tamper with an electronic handling device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.46)
1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with an electronic handling
device if all of the following apply:
   A.   The person knowingly removes, disables, or destroys an electronic
device designed and used to maintain custody or control of the dog or modify
the dog’s behavior.
   B.   The electronic device is attached to or worn by the dog or attached to
an item worn by the dog, including (but not limited to) a collar, harness, or
vest.
2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
   A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized to
take action by the owner.
   B.   A peace officer.
   C.   A veterinarian.
   D.   An animal shelter or pound.
55.19 ACTIONS OF DOGS AND CATS CONSTITUTING A NUISANCE.
1.   It shall be unlawful for an owner of a dog or cat to allow or permit such
dog or cat to enter upon the premises or property of another.
2.   It shall be unlawful for an owner of a dog or cat to allow or permit such
dog or cat to cause serious annoyance or disturbance to any person or persons
by frequent and habitual howling, yelping, barking, or otherwise; or by running
after or chasing persons, bicycles, automobiles, or other vehicles.
3.   It shall be unlawful to permit dog or cat manure to accumulate upon the
premises.
4.   No dog shall be tethered at a residence that would allow such dog to enter
an adjoining public right-of-way, boulevard, or alley, or would allow such dog
to block access to utility meters or common areas.
55.20 ANIMAL EXCREMENT.
It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in charge of a dog, cat, horse, or
other animal to fail to clean up and remove as soon as possible any excrement
or droppings deposited by said dog, cat, horse, or other animal on any real
estate, whether publicly or privately owned, other than the owner or person in
charge’s own property. A violation of this section is a municipal infraction.
55.21 EXCEPTION TO ANIMAL EXCREMENT.
Animal excrement section shall not apply to the County Fair Parade and other
activities that are duly approved by the Council.
CHAPTER 56
DOG AND CAT LICENSE REQUIRED
(Repealed by Ordinance No. 1237 – Nov. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 57
PROBLEMATIC AND VICIOUS ANIMALS
 
57.01 Definitions                          57.05 Registration and Handling
                                           Requirements
57.02 Determination of Problematic Animals 57.06 Owner Responsibility
57.03 Determination of Vicious Animals     57.07 License Required
57.04 Exceptions; Consequences of          57.08 Penalty
Determinations
 
57.01 DEFINITIONS.
For purposes in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “At large” means animals found off premises of the owner or keeper. An
animal shall not be deemed at large if the animal is:
   A.   Muzzled, attached to a leash of sufficient strength and no greater than
six feet in length to control the animal where such leash is held by its owner
or keeper at all time;
   B.   Contained within an enclosed motor vehicle or crate;
   C.   Housed in a licensed veterinarian's clinic or kennel;
   D.   The animal is trained and used by a government agency and accompanied
by the appropriate government agency handler;
   E.   The owner and the animal are participating in a regularly scheduled
competitive or exhibition event sanctioned or sponsored by a nationally
recognized organization, local chapter thereof, or other generally recognized
local organization;
   F.   The animal is actively engaged in training for hunting or is in the act
of hunting;
   G.   The animal and the owner are actively engaged in a generally recognized
obedience training program or training for a generally recognized kennel club
event, provided:
      (1)   The animal is in the actual physical presence of the owner or
trainer at all times;
      (2)   The owner or trainer is at no time more than 50 feet from the
animal;
      (3)   The animal is immediately obedient to the commands of the owner or
trainer; and
      (4)   The owner or trainer has, at all times, on his or her person a
leash of sufficient strength to restrain the animal.
2.   “Owner” means any person owning, keeping, harboring, in control of, or in
possession of one or more animals.
3.   “Problematic animal” means an animal that may reasonably be assumed to
pose a threat to public safety as demonstrated by at least one of the following
behaviors:
   A.   Any animal that bites or attacks any person or other domestic animal
without provocation either on public or private property;
   B.   Any animal, running at large, as defined herein, and impounded, or
owners cited by the Police Department, or the organization authorized to
enforce the problematic or vicious animal law two times for running at large
within any 12-month period;
   C.   Any animal who, in a dangerous or terrorizing manner, approaches any
person or other domestic animal and displays threatening or aggressive
behavior;
   D.   Any animal with a history, known propensity, tendency, or disposition
to attack or cause injury to or otherwise endanger the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
4.   “Proper enclosure” means an enclosure that is sufficiently constructed and
maintained to effectively prevent an animal subject to this chapter from
escaping. Such enclosure requires the following minimum requirements:
   A.   Problematic and vicious animals to be securely confined within an
occupied house or residence or in an enclosed and locked pen or kennel, except
when leashed as provided in this chapter. Such pen, kennel, or structure must
have secure sides and a secure top attached to the sides or, in lieu of a top,
walls at least six feet in height and at least six feet taller than any
internal structure. Confinement conditions must be humane, permitting the
animal adequate exercise and protection from the elements;
   B.   All pens or other structures designed, constructed, or used to confine
problematic and vicious animals must be locked with a key or combination lock
when such animals are within the structure. Such structure must have a secure
bottom, floor, or foundation attached to the sides of the pen, or the sides of
the pen must be embedded in the ground no less than two feet so as to prevent
digging under the walls by the confined problematic or vicious animal;
   C.   Compliance with all pertinent zoning ordinances and other ordinances;
and
   D.   No problematic or vicious animal may be kept on a porch, patio, or in
any part of a house or structure that would allow the animal to exit such
building on its own volition.
5.   “Quarantine” means the strict isolation imposed to prevent the spread of
disease.
6.   “Rabies” means an acute viral disease of the central nervous system that
is transmitted through the saliva from a bite or abrasion from an infected
animal.
7.   “Responsible person” means a person at least 18 years old who is able to
keep the animal under control at all times.
8.   “Review committee” means a three-member board appointed by the Council
consisting of a member of the public, an animal professional and a City
employee for the purpose of making a determination of whether an animal is a
problematic or vicious animal.
9.   “Serious injury” means any injury causing heavy bleeding, permanent nerve
damage, damage beneath the skin or stitches.
10.   “Vicious animal” means any animal that has been declared or found to pose
an unacceptable risk to public safety by the animal control authority, law
enforcement agency, or court for conduct consistent with at least one of the
following:
   A.   Any animal that on any single occasion caused the death or the serious
injury to a person;
   B.   Any animal that has killed a domestic animal or pet or inflicted injury
upon a domestic animal or pet such that the domestic animal or pet later dies
or must be euthanized due to the attack;
   C.   Any animal that has previously been designated as a “problematic
animal” by this or any other jurisdiction, and engages in behavior that poses a
threat to public safety;
   D.   Any animal that has previously been designated as “vicious animal” by
this jurisdiction or its substantial equivalent by any other jurisdiction; or
   E.   Any animal that has engaged in or has been trained to engage in
exhibitions of fighting.
   F.   Any animal that has been trained to attack human beings, upon command
or spontaneously in response to human activities.
57.02 DETERMINATION OF PROBLEMATIC ANIMALS.
1.   After an investigation, the Police Chief is authorized to make a
determination whether an animal is problematic based on the definition of this
chapter and shall notify the owner of the animal in writing by certified mail
or hand delivery.
2.   Following attempted notice to the owner, if the Police Chief has probable
cause to believe that an animal is a problematic animal and may pose a threat
to public safety, the Police Department may, by owner consent or warrant,
impound the animal pending disposition of the case or until the animal owner
has fulfilled the requirements hereof. The owner of the animal will be liable
for the costs of impounding and maintaining the animal.
3.   The owner may request a hearing before a review committee by sending a
written notice to the Clerk within 15 days after the date of notice from the
City of the determination of a problematic animal. Upon receipt of a request
for hearing, the review committee shall schedule a hearing concerning the
determination of a problematic animal to be held within 30 days after receipt
by the City of the request for hearing.
4.   If the owner timely requests a hearing before the review committee, such
hearing shall follow the following procedures:
   A.   A hearing officer appointed by the review committee shall impartially
preside over the hearing.
   B.   Each case before the hearing officer shall be presented by the Police
Chief who will have the burden of presenting evidence that the animal is a
problematic animal and should be classified as such. If the evidence indicates
that the animal is problematic, the burden is on the owner to present evidence
that the animal is not problematic. At the hearing, the Police Chief may call
witnesses, cross examine witnesses, present evidence, and examine evidence.
   C.   All testimony shall be under oath and shall be recorded. The hearing
officer shall hear testimony from the animal control officer, the owner of the
animal, and any witnesses for either side. Formal rules of evidence shall not
apply, but fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the
proceedings.
   D.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall issue
findings of fact, based on evidence of record and conclusions of law, and shall
issue an order classifying an animal as problematic, or an order stating that
there’s insufficient cause to declare the animal as problematic. A decision by
the review committee overturning the determination shall not affect the City’s
right to later declare an animal to be a problematic animal, or to determine
that the animal poses a threat to public safety for the animal’s subsequent
behavior.
   E.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a hearing officer from taking a
case under advisement or continuing a hearing in the interest of justice.
57.03 DETERMINATION OF VICIOUS ANIMALS.
1.   After an investigation, the Police Chief is authorized to determine
whether an animal is vicious as defined by this chapter and shall notify the
owner of the animal in writing by certified mail or hand delivery.
2.   Following attempted notice to the owner, if the Police Chief has reason to
believe that an animal is a vicious animal and poses an unacceptable risk to
public safety, the Police Department may, by owner consent or warrant, impound
the animal pending disposition of the case or until the animal owner has
fulfilled the requirements of this chapter. The owner of the animal will be
liable for the costs of impounding and maintaining the animal.
3.   The owner may request a hearing before a review committee by sending a
written notice to the Clerk within 15 days after the date of notice from the
City of the determination of a vicious animal. Upon receipt of a request for
hearing, the review committee shall schedule a hearing concerning the
determination of a vicious animal to be held within 30 days after receipt by
the City of the request for hearing. The determination regarding a vicious
animal shall be stayed pending the results of the hearing.
4.   If the owner timely requests a hearing before the review committee, such
hearing shall follow the following procedures:
   A.   A hearing officer appointed by the review committee shall impartially
preside over the hearing.
   B.   Each case before the hearing officer shall be presented by the Police
Chief who will have the burden of presenting evidence that the animal is a
vicious animal and should be classified as such. If the evidence indicates that
the animal is vicious, the burden is on the owner to present evidence that the
animal is not vicious. At the hearing, the Police Chief may call witnesses,
cross examine witnesses, present evidence, and examine evidence.
   C.   All testimony shall be under oath and shall be recorded. The hearing
officer shall hear testimony from the animal control officer, the owner of the
animal, and any witnesses for either side. Formal rules of evidence shall not
apply, but fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the
proceedings.
   D.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall issue
findings of fact, based on evidence of record and conclusions of law, and shall
issue an order classifying an animal as vicious, or an order stating that
there’s insufficient cause to declare the animal as vicious. A decision by the
review committee overturning the determination shall not affect the City’s
right to later declare an animal to be a vicious animal, or to determine that
the animal poses a threat to public safety for the animal’s subsequent
behavior.
   E.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a hearing officer from taking a
case under advisement or continuing a hearing in the interest of justice.
5.   In the event that the vicious animal determination has been in place for
12 months or more, and provided there have been no further violations of the
provisions of this chapter during such time, the owner may make application to
the review committee to have the vicious animal designation, or any
requirements contained therein, rescinded or amended. The owner shall make such
application by providing a written request for hearing to the Clerk. This
request must state the full name and address of the applicant, the breed, age,
and name of the vicious animal, proof of current applicable vaccinations for
the vicious animal, a brief summary as to why the vicious animal designation
should be lifted, and a certification from the Police Department, or agency
tasked with enforcing this chapter, that no further violations of this chapter
have occurred in the 12-month period immediately preceding such application.
Within 20 days of receipt of the application, the Clerk shall set the matter
for hearing before the review committee, which hearing shall occur no later
than 45 days after the date the application was filed with the Clerk. In
rendering its decision, the review committee may consider, among other items,
the severity of the incident that resulted in the designation, the need to
protect the public from further incidents, and the likelihood of future
incidents based on the history of the owner and/or the subject animal. At the
conclusion of the hearing, the review committee may rescind the vicious animal
designation, may rescind or amend specific requirements set forth in the
designation, or may take no action. The original vicious animal determination
shall remain in effect pending the results of the hearing. In the event the
review committee declines to rescind or amend the vicious animal designation or
any requirements contained therein, the owner may not request another hearing
before the review committee for another 12 months from the date of the review
committee’s decision, unless the review committee, in rendering its decision,
shall specifically provide for a subsequent review within a shorter period of
time.
57.04 EXCEPTIONS; CONSEQUENCES OF DETERMINATIONS.
1.   No animal shall be declared a vicious animal or a problematic animal if
the animal was being utilized by a law enforcement agency for law enforcement
purposes while under the control and direction of a law enforcement officer.
2.   If the Police Chief determines that an animal is a problematic or vicious
animal, the owner shall comply with the provisions of this chapter and any
other special security or care requirements which are reasonable.
3.   The Police Chief may cause an animal to be quarantined for observation for
a minimum period of no less than 10 days when any such animal has bitten,
scratched, or otherwise broken the skin of a person or domesticated animal. If
said animal has a current rabies certificate, then such quarantine may be at
the discretion of the person or persons in charge of animal enforcement and the
quarantine may occur on the owner’s premises in a manner ordered and as
directed. If the owner fails to confine the animal as directed, then it shall
be apprehended and held for the remainder of the 10-day quarantine at a
veterinarian’s office. If said animal has not been vaccinated against the
rabies virus or the rabies vaccination has since expired, then said animal will
be quarantined at a veterinarian’s office for no less than 10 days. If an
animal is placed in quarantine outside of the home, the owner shall be required
to pay the impounding fees. If the owner fails to pay the fees at the end of
the period of isolation as directed by the animal enforcement authority, the
animal will be turned over to the local animal shelter for assessment of
adoptability. No animal shall be adopted back to the owner of the animal to
avoid paying reclaim fees and citations issued. If said animal is deemed
unadoptable it will be humanely euthanized. If an animal has bitten a
domesticated animal or a person or caused a skin abrasion upon a person and is
unclaimed or the owner is unknown, then it shall be held for a quarantine time
of no less than 10 days and then may be humanely euthanized.
4.   The Police Chief may require immediate impoundment of the animal if the
owner is unable or unwilling to comply with the requirements of this chapter
until the owner of the animal has satisfied all the requirements of the
certificate of registration. The requirements must be met within 30 days. If,
after 30 days, the owner has not satisfied all the requirements of the
certificate of registration, the animal may be humanely euthanized. The owner
of the problematic or vicious animal shall be liable to the organization
designated to hold said animal for all costs incurred while housing whether or
not the animal is reclaimed by the owner.
5.   If the occurrence results in the death of a person, the animal shall be
euthanized, and the costs of impoundment and euthanizing shall be assessed to
the owner of the animal.
57.05 REGISTRATION AND HANDLING REQUIREMENTS.
1.   The Police Department shall issue a certificate of registration to the
owner of a problematic animal if the owner establishes to the satisfaction of
the Police Chief, or that:
   A.   The owner of the problematic animal is 18 years of age or older;
   B.   The owner of the problematic animal shall present a certificate of
insurance issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State,
providing personal liability insurance coverage as in a homeowners policy, with
a minimum liability amount of $50,000.00 for the injury or death of any person,
for damage to property of others and for acts of negligence by the owner or
their agents. The certificate shall require notice to the City, in conformity
with general City standards for certificates of insurance, if the underlying
policy of insurance is cancelled for any reason. In lieu of such a certificate,
a copy of a current homeowner’s policy designating these requirements shall be
sufficient proof of insurance for purposes of this section. If a certificate of
insurance or policy is not immediately available, a binder indicating the
coverage may be accepted for up to 30 days subsequent to the determination that
an animal is problematic; however, if after 30 days a certificate of insurance
or a policy has not been submitted, the animal shall be deemed unlicensed and
subject to immediate impoundment or humane euthanasia at the owner’s expense;
   C.   A valid license has been issued for the problematic animal at the
owner’s expense pursuant to jurisdiction. The City is authorized to impose an
additional licensing fee on pets designated as problematic animals;
   D.   The problematic animal has a current rabies vaccination at the owner’s
expense;
   E.   The owner has a proper enclosure to prevent the entry of any person or
animal and the escape of said problematic animal;
   F.   The problematic animal has been spayed or neutered at the owner’s
expense;
   G.   The problematic animal has been implanted with a microchip containing
owner identification information at the owner’s expense. The microchip
information must be registered with the law enforcement, the animal authority,
the animal control authority or their designee of the jurisdiction; and
   H.   The problematic animal has been photographed for identification
purposes.
2.   The Police Department shall issue a certificate of registration to the
owner of a vicious animal if the owner, in addition to satisfying the
requirements for registration of a problematic animal pursuant to Subsection 1
above, establishes to the satisfaction of the Police Chief that:
   A.   The owner will maintain the vicious animal exclusively on the owner’s
property, except for medical treatment or examination; and
   B.   The owner of the vicious animal has posted on the premises a clearly
visible “Beware of Animal” warning sign indicating there is a vicious animal on
the property. The sign shall be very visible from the public roadway or 50
feet, whichever is less.
3.   The Police Chief may order the immediate impoundment of a vicious animal
if the owner fails to abide by the conditions for registration or confinement
or handling of a vicious or problematic animal.
4.   If any animal previously determined to be a problematic animal has not
exhibited any of the behaviors specified in this chapter within 12 months since
the date of the problematic animal determination, then that animal is eligible
for a review of the determination with the potential for lifting the
requirements of this section. Annual reviews shall be completed by the Police
Chief upon application of the owner, which application shall be made to the
Clerk. The Police Chief may rescind the problematic animal designation, may
rescind, or amend specific requirements set forth in the designation, or may
take no action.
5.   If an owner applies for an annual review to the Police Chief and the owner
is aggrieved by the Police Chief’s decision, the owner may make application to
the review committee to have the problematic animal designation, or any
requirements contained therein, rescinded or amended. The owner shall make such
application by providing a written request for hearing to the Clerk. The
application must be submitted within 15 days from the date of the Police
Chief’s decision to continue the problematic animal determination, must set
forth the full name of the applicant and the subject animal, and must contain a
certification that no further violations of this chapter have occurred in the
12-month period immediately preceding such application. Within 20 days of
receipt of the application, the Clerk shall set the matter for hearing before
the review committee, which hearing shall occur no later than 45 days after the
date the application was filed with the City Clerk. In rendering its decision,
the review committee may consider, among other items, the severity of the
incident that resulted in the designation, the need to protect the public from
further incidents, the likelihood of future incidents based on the history of
the owner and/or the subject animal. At the conclusion of the hearing, the
review committee may rescind the problematic animal designation, may rescind,
or amend specific requirements set forth in the designation, or may take no
action. The original problematic animal determination shall remain in effect
pending the results of the hearing. In the event the review committee declines
to rescind or amend the problematic animal designation or any requirements
contained therein, the owner may not request another hearing before the review
committee for another 12 months from the date of the review committee’s
decision, unless the review committee, in rendering its decision, shall
specifically provide for a subsequent review within a shorter period of time.
57.06 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
It shall be unlawful to:
1.   Keep an animal determined to be vicious or problematic without a valid
certificate of registration issued under this chapter;
2.   Permit a problematic animal to be outside a proper enclosure unless the
problematic animal is under the control of a responsible person, as defined in
this chapter, muzzled and restrained by a sturdy lead not exceeding six feet in
length. The muzzle shall be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the
animal or obscure its vision or interfere with its respiration, but shall
prevent it from biting any person or animal;
3.   Fail to maintain a vicious animal exclusively on the owner’s property as
required except for medical treatment or examination. When removed from the
owner’s property for medical treatment or examination, the vicious animal shall
be crated or under the control of a responsible person, as defined in this
chapter, muzzled and restrained with a sturdy lead not exceeding six feet in
length. The muzzle shall be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the
animal or obscure its vision or interfere with its respiration, but shall
prevent it from biting any human being or animal;
4.   Keep a vicious or problematic animal chained or otherwise tethered to any
object or structure including, but not limited to, trees, posts, fences,
buildings, or other structures;
5.   Fail to immediately notify the Police Department in person or by telephone
upon escape of a vicious or problematic animal such that the animal is running
at large, is unconfined, has attacked a domestic animal or has attacked a
person;
6.   Fail to notify within seven days the Police Department with the name,
address, and telephone number of the new owner of the vicious or problematic
animal if the animal has been sold or has been given away to an owner inside or
outside the jurisdiction; and, if requested by the Police Department, the owner
must execute an affidavit under oath setting forth the complete name, address,
and telephone number of the person to whom the animal has been transferred;
7.   Fail to notify, within seven days, the Police Department of a change of
address or telephone number by the owner of the vicious or problematic animal;
8.   Fail to notify, within seven days, the Police Department if the vicious or
problematic animal has died; and
9.   Fail to surrender a vicious or problematic animal to law enforcement, the
animal control authority or their designee for safe confinement pending a
disposition of the case when there is a reason to believe that the vicious or
problematic animal poses a threat to public safety.
10.   The animal owner’s property and the animal are subject to periodic
inspection by the Police Department to ensure compliance with this chapter.
57.07 LICENSE REQUIRED.
All animals shall be licensed in compliance with other sections within this
chapter in addition to the requirements provided herein.
57.08 PENALTY.
1.   Except as provided in Section
57.05(B), a violation of this chapter shall be a municipal infraction under
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances and violators shall be subject to a civil
penalty. The City may also seek alternative relief including, but not limited
to, removal of the problematic or vicious animal from the City, relinquishment
of ownership, or euthanasia of the problematic or vicious animal.
2.   Running At Large Ticket. If an animal is observed running at large and law
enforcement or the animal control entity charged with enforcement of this
chapter are summoned to secure the animal, a running at large ticket may be
issued to its owner requiring the payment of a fee for the City’s cost in
attempting to secure the animal and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   A.   Municipal Infraction. In the event of the owner of an animal has been
served a ticket for the payment of the running at large fee and fails to pay
the required amount due to the City within 30 days of the date of issuance,
such failure shall constitute a municipal infraction under
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 58
BACKYARD CHICKENS
 
58.01 Definitions                      58.08 Predators, Rodents, Insects, and
                                       Parasites
58.02 Backyard Chicken Permit Required 58.09 Feed and Water
58.03 Rules and Regulations            58.10 Waste Storage and Removal
58.04 Revocation of Backyard Chicken   58.11 Chickens At Large
Permit
58.05 Effect of Denial or Revocation   58.12 Liability
58.06 Appeals                          58.13 Unlawful Acts
58.07 Odor and Noise Impacts           58.14 Nuisances
 
58.01 DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Applicant” means the owner of a parcel for which a backyard chicken
permit is being requested.
2.   “Backyard chicken permit” means a permit granted under this chapter to
allow for the keeping or harboring of chickens in the City.
3.   “Chicken run” means an enclosed outdoor area for chickens:
4.   “Chicken” means a member of the subspecies Gallus Gallus Domesticus.
5.   “Henhouse” means a small building with nesting boxes.
6.   “Parcel” means a tract of land identified by address legally described
with definitive boundaries.
7.   “Permitted parcel” means the parcel identified in the application upon
which a backyard chicken permit is granted under this chapter.
8.   “Permittee” means the applicant who has been granted a permit to raise,
harbor, or keep chickens pursuant to this chapter.
9.   “Permitting Officer” means the City Manager, or their designee.
10.   “Single-family dwelling” means any building that contains only one
dwelling unit is used or leased to be occupied for living purposes.
For purposes of this Code, the term livestock shall not apply to any person who
is keeping or harboring chickens under a valid backyard chicken permit issued
pursuant to Section
58.02.
58.02 BACKYARD CHICKEN PERMIT REQUIRED.
1.   Permit Required. No person shall raise, harbor, or keep chickens within
the City without a valid permit obtained from the Permitting Officer under the
provisions of this chapter.
2.   Application. In order to obtain a permit, the applicant must submit the
completed application on forms provided by the City and pay the backyard
chicken permit fee, said fees to be set by resolution of the Council.
3.   Requirements for the issuance of a backyard chicken permit.
   A.   Prior to the issuance of a backyard chicken permit, the Permitting
Officer shall ensure that the following requirements are met by the applicant:
      (1)   The application has been completed and all fees paid to the City.
      (2)   The proposed parcel is in compliance with this Code of Ordinances.
      (3)   The proposed parcel is zoned for residential or agricultural uses
only.
      (4)   The proposed parcel shall contain only one single-family dwelling
occupied by the owner at the time of completion of the application.
      (5)   That the applicant certifies that the keeping or harboring of
chickens does not violate the restrictive covenants that apply to the proposed
tract of land.
      (6)   Proof of completion of an approved class in raising chickens in a
backyard environment.
      (7)   The applicant owes no outstanding debts or liens to the City.
   B.   If the applicant has met the requirements outlined in Subsection 3(A)
above, the Permitting Officer shall issue the backyard chicken permit. Said
backyard chicken permit shall be valid for a year and each permit shall expire
on March 31 of the calendar year. All backyard chicken permits must be renewed
on an annual basis.
   C.   In the event that a backyard chicken permit is not renewed by March 31
of the calendar year a 30-day grace period will be granted and an
administrative fee charged as set by resolution by the Council. In the event
that a backyard chicken permit is not renewed by April 30 of the calendar year,
the permit will be considered null and void and the administrative fee will be
considered outstanding debt to the City.
58.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
All permittees shall be subject to the following rules and regulations:
1.   No permittee shall keep or harbor more than six chickens on the permitted
parcel.
2.   No person shall keep or harbor any roosters on the permitted parcel.
3.   The permittee shall not engage in the breeding of chickens or other
commercial activities on the permitted parcel.
4.   Each permitted parcel shall contain an enclosure consisting of a henhouse
and chicken run that meets the following minimum requirements:
   A.   Enclosures shall be kept in a dry, odor-free, and sanitary condition at
all times.
   B.   Henhouses must provide adequate ventilation and must be impermeable to
rodents, birds, and other animals.
   C.   Henhouses must provide a minimum of four-square feet per chicken with
one laying box for every two hens and one linear foot of roosting bar per hen.
   D.   Henhouses and chicken runs shall be enclosed on all sides and shall
have a roof and doors, which access shall be secured at night. All openings
must be covered with predator and bird-proof material made of wire with less
than one-inch openings.
   E.   Enclosures shall be constructed of uniform materials and the roof shall
have a uniform color and style of shingles or other coverings. Scrap metal and
scrap lumber are prohibited materials.
   F.   Enclosures shall be maintained and secure.
   G.   No enclosure may be located in a required front or side yard as defined
in 165.02 of this Code.
   H.   Enclosures may not be located within 10 feet from an adjoining property
line and shall not be located within 10 feet from the dwelling.
   I.   Runs shall be made of sturdy wire fencing which is covered in wire,
aviary netting, or solid roofing. Runs shall provide a minimum of six square
feet per hen.
   J.   Heated water shall be provided when keeping chickens through the
winter.
5.   Each potential permitted parcel shall be inspected to assure it meets the
minimum requirements. Inspections will be done before a backyard chicken permit
is issued initially; previous to the first annual renewal and every other year
thereafter.
58.04 REVOCATION OF BACKYARD CHICKEN PERMIT.
The Permitting Officer may revoke a backyard chicken permit on the following
grounds:
1.   False statements on any application or other information given to the City
by the applicant.
2.   Failure to pay any application, inspection or reinspection fee required by
this chapter and Council resolution.
3.   Failure to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter.
58.05 EFFECT OF DENIAL OR REVOCATION.
When an applicant is denied a backyard chicken permit for violation of this
chapter, applicant shall not be eligible for another permit until one year has
passed since said denial or revocation. If a backyard chicken permit is
revoked, the permittee shall remove all chickens and enclosures from the
permitted tract of land within 10 days of said revocation.
58.06 APPEALS.
No application for a backyard chicken permit shall be denied or backyard
chicken permit be revoked unless the applicant or permittee, as the case may
be, shall have the right to a hearing. The Permitting Officer may deny an
application or revoke a permit by sending written notice of the same to the
address listed on the application outlining the reasons for said denial or
revocation. The applicant or permittee, as the case may be, shall have the
right to request a hearing on said denial or revocation, by filing written
notice of appeal with the Clerk no later than 10 days after the issuance of the
written denial or revocation. Failure to request a hearing will cause the
decision of the Permitting Officer to be final.
58.07 ODOR AND NOISE IMPACTS.
Odors from chickens, chicken manure, and other chicken related substances shall
not be perceptible beyond the boundaries of the permitted parcel.
58.08 PREDATORS, RODENTS, INSECTS, AND PARASITES.
The permittee shall take any and all necessary action to reduce the attraction
of predators and rodents and the potential infestation of insects and
parasites. Chickens found to be infested with insects and parasites may result
in unhealthy conditions to human habitation and may be removed by the Police
Department.
58.09 FEED AND WATER.
Chickens shall be provided with access to feed and water at all times. The feed
and water shall be made unavailable to rodents, birds, and other predators.
58.10 WASTE STORAGE AND REMOVAL.
All stored manure shall be covered by a fully enclosed structure with a roof or
lid over the entire structure. No more than three cubic feet of manure shall be
stored on a permitted parcel. The enclosure and surrounding area shall be kept
free from trash and accumulated droppings. Uneaten feed shall be removed in a
timely manner.
58.11 CHICKENS AT LARGE.
The permittee shall not allow the permittee’s chickens to roam off the
permitted parcel or roam outside of the enclosures on the permitted parcel.
58.12 LIABILITY.
The City shall not be liable for any injury or death to chickens caused by
cats, dogs, or other animals, domestic or wild, whether such animals are
licensed or not by the City. Further, the injury or death of a chicken caused
by an animal is not, in and of itself, sufficient grounds for declaring that
animal vicious pursuant to
Chapter 57 of this Code.
58.13 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor chickens in
violation of any provision of this chapter or any other provision of this Code.
2.   No person shall keep chickens inside a single-family dwelling unit.
3.   No person shall slaughter chickens within the public view of a public area
or adjacent property owner.
58.14 NUISANCES.
Any violation of the terms of this chapter that constitutes a health hazard or
that interferes with the use or enjoyment of neighboring property is a nuisance
and in addition to any other remedy provided by law, may be abated under
Chapter 50 of this Code.
CHAPTER 59
BEEKEEPING STANDARDS
 
59.01 Definitions          59.03 Liability
59.02 Beekeeping Permitted 59.04 Nuisances
 
59.01 DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Apiary”' means a place where bees are kept.
2.   “Constructed hive” means an enclosure made of wood or metal used to house
bees for honey production.
59.02 BEEKEEPING PERMITTED.
1.   One apiary shall be allowed per parcel in areas zoned A-1 Agricultural or
1-3 Heavy Industrial.
2.   Each apiary must consist of only one constructed hive.
59.03 LIABILITY.
The City shall not be liable for any damages, injury, or death caused by bees
under this chapter.
59.04 NUISANCES.
Any violation of the terms of this chapter that constitutes a health hazard or
that interferes with the use or enjoyment of neighboring property is a nuisance
and in addition to any other remedy provided by law, may be abated under
Chapter 50 of this code.
CHAPTER 60
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE
 
60.01 Title                          60.06 Peace Officer’s Authority
60.02 Definitions                    60.07 Obedience to Peace Officers
60.03 Administration and Enforcement 60.08 Parades Regulated
60.04 Power to Direct Traffic        60.09 Fawn Brook Estates Enforcement
60.05 Reports of Traffic Accidents
 
60.01 TITLE.
Chapters 60 through 70 of this Code of Ordinances may be known and cited as the
“Maquoketa Traffic Code” (and are referred to herein as the “Traffic Code”).
60.02 DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in the Traffic Code are defined by State law, such
definitions apply to their use in said Traffic Code and are hereby adopted by
reference. Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, have the following
meanings:
1.   “Business District” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway when 50 percent or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of 300
feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(7))
2.   “MPH” means miles per hour.
3.   “Parade” means any march or procession of persons or vehicles organized
for marching or moving on the streets in an organized fashion or manner or any
march or procession of persons or vehicles represented or advertised to the
public as a parade.
4.   “Park” or “parking” means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
5.   “Peace officer” means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
6.   “Pedestrian” means a person afoot or a person using a pedestrian
conveyance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(51))
7.   “Pedestrian conveyance” means any human-powered device by which a
pedestrian may move other than by walking or by which a pedestrian may move
another person, including but not limited to a wheelchair, stroller,
skateboard, scooter, or other similar device. Pedestrian conveyance also
includes an electric personal assistive mobility device and any other device
used to move a person sitting or standing on the device regardless of whether
the device is powered by an electric motor, so long as the electric motor
produces less than 750 watts. Pedestrian conveyance does not include a bicycle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(51A))
8.   “Recreational vehicle” means a general term for a vehicular unit not
exceeding 36 feet in overall length, eight feet in width, or 12 feet in overall
height, which applies to the following specific vehicle types:
   A.   Camper Trailer. A folding or collapsible vehicular structure, without
its own power, designed as a temporary living quarters for travel, camping,
recreation, and vacation uses, and which is licensed and registered for highway
use.
   B.   Travel Trailer. A rigid structure, without its own motive power,
designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, camping, recreation, and vacation
use; licensed and registered for highway use; and which when equipped for the
road, has a body width of not more than eight feet.
   C.   Truck Camper. A portable structure, without its own motive power,
designed to be transported on a power vehicle as a temporary dwelling for
travel, camping, recreation, and vacation use; and which in combination with
the carrying vehicle is licensed and registered for highway use.
   D.   Motor Home. A vehicular unit built on or as a part of a self-propelled
motor vehicle chassis, primarily designed to provide temporary living quarters
for travel, camping, recreation, and vacation use, and which is for highway use
licensed and registered.
   E.   Boat Trailer. A vehicular structure, without its own motive power,
designed to transport a recreational vessel for recreation and vacation use,
for highway use and which is licensed and registered.
   F.   Horse Trailer. A vehicular structure, without its own motive power,
designed primarily for the transportation of horses and which, in combination
with the towing vehicle, is licensed and registered for highway use.
   G.   Utility Trailer. A vehicular structure, without its own motive power,
designed and/or used for the transportation of all manner of motor vehicles,
goods, or materials and licensed and registered for highway use.
   H.   Recreational Vessel. A general term applying to all manner of
watercraft, other than a seaplane on water, whether impelled by wind, oars, or
mechanical devices, and which is designed primarily for recreation or vacation
use. A recreation vessel, when mounted upon a boat trailer, and its towing
vehicle, when parked, shall be considered one unit, exclusive of its towing
vehicle.
9.   “Residence district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway not comprising a business, suburban, or school district, where 40
percent or more of the frontage on such a highway for a distance of 300 feet or
more is occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings in use for
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(63))
10.   “School district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway for a distance of 200 feet in either direction from a schoolhouse.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(70))
11.   “Stand” or “standing” means the halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving
or discharging passengers.
12.   “Stop” means when required, the complete cessation of movement.
13.   “Stop” or “stopping” means when prohibited, any halting of a vehicle,
even momentarily, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control sign or signal.
14.   “Suburban district” means all other parts of the City not included in the
business, school, or residence districts.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(78))
15.   “Traffic control device” means all signs, signals, markings, and devices
not inconsistent with this chapter, lawfully placed or erected for the purpose
of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
16.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway. Vehicle does not include:
   A.   Any device moved by human power, including a low-speed electric
bicycle.
   B.   Any device used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   C.   Any personal delivery device operated pursuant to Chapter 321O of the
Code of Iowa.
   D.   Any integral part of a truck tractor or road tractor which is mounted
on the frame of the truck tractor or road tractor immediately behind the cab
and which may be used to transport persons and property, but which cannot be
drawn upon the highway by the truck tractor or another motor vehicle.
E.   Any steering axle, dolly, auxiliary axle, or other integral part of
another vehicle which in and of itself is incapable of commercially
transporting any person or property but is used primarily to support another
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(90))
(Section 60.02 – Ord._1229 – Oct. 24 Supp.)
60.03 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
Provisions of this Traffic Code and State law relating to motor vehicles and
law of the road are enforced by the Police Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
60.04 POWER TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
A peace officer or, in the absence of a peace officer, any officer of the Fire
Department when at the scene of a fire, is authorized to direct all traffic by
voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws. In the event of an
emergency, traffic may be directed as conditions require, notwithstanding the
provisions of the traffic laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.4 and 321.236[2])
60.05 REPORTS OF TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS.
The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident within the limits of the City
shall file a report as and when required by the Iowa Department of
Transportation. A copy of this report shall be filed with the City for the
confidential use of peace officers and shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 321.271 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.273)
60.06 PEACE OFFICER’S AUTHORITY.
A peace officer is authorized to stop a vehicle to require exhibition of the
driver’s license of the driver, to serve a summons or memorandum of traffic
violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to inspect the vehicle with
reference to size, weight, cargo, log book, bills of lading, or other manifest
of employment, tires and safety equipment, or to inspect the registration
certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or permit of such
vehicle. A peace officer having probable cause to stop a vehicle may require
exhibition of the proof of financial liability coverage card issued for the
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.492)
60.07 OBEDIENCE TO PEACE OFFICERS.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control, or regulate traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.229)
60.08 PARADES REGULATED.
No person shall conduct or cause any parade on any street except as provided
herein:
1.   Permit Required. No parade shall be conducted without first obtaining a
written permit from the City Manager. Such permit shall state the time and date
for the parade to be held and the streets or general route therefor. Such
written permit granted to the person organizing or sponsoring the parade shall
be permission for all participants therein to parade when such participants
have been invited by the permittee to participate therein.
2.   Parade Not A Street Obstruction. Any parade for which a permit has been
issued as herein required, and the persons lawfully participating therein,
shall not be deemed an obstruction of the streets notwithstanding the
provisions of any other ordinance to the contrary.
3.   Control by Police and Firefighters. Persons participating in any parade
shall at all times be subject to the lawful orders and directions in the
performance of their duties of law enforcement personnel and members of the
Fire Department.
60.09 FAWN BROOK ESTATES ENFORCEMENT.
The vehicular traffic provisions and all other provisions of this Code of
Ordinances shall be enforced within Fawn Brook Estates by the law enforcement
officials of the City.
CHAPTER 61
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
 
61.01 Installation  61.04 Standards
61.02 Crosswalks    61.05 Compliance
61.03 Traffic Lanes
 
61.01 INSTALLATION.
The Police Chief shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic control
devices when and as required under this Traffic Code or under State law or
emergency or temporary traffic control devices for the duration of an emergency
or temporary condition as traffic conditions may require to regulate, guide or
warn traffic. The Police Chief shall keep a record of all such traffic control
devices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.02 CROSSWALKS.
The Police Chief is hereby authorized, subject to approval of the Council by
resolution, to designate and maintain crosswalks by appropriate traffic control
devices at intersections where, due to traffic conditions, there is particular
danger to pedestrians crossing the street or roadway, and at such other places
as traffic conditions require.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] and 321.255)
61.03 TRAFFIC LANES.
The Police Chief is hereby authorized to mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as traffic conditions require, consistent with this
Traffic Code. Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] and 321.255)
61.04 STANDARDS.
Traffic control devices shall comply with standards established by The Manual
of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.05 COMPLIANCE.
No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official traffic
control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, unless
at the time otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject to the exceptions
granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under Section 321.231 and
321.231A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
CHAPTER 62
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
 
62.01 Violation of Regulations 62.05 Quiet Zones
62.02 Play Streets Designated  62.06 Obstructing View at Intersections
62.03 Vehicles on Sidewalks    62.07 Milling
62.04 Clinging to Vehicle      62.08 Engine Brakes and Compression Brakes
 
62.01 VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
Any person who willfully fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order of a
peace officer or direction of a Fire Department officer during a fire, or who
fails to abide by the applicable provisions of the following Iowa statutory
laws relating to motor vehicles and the statutory law of the road is in
violation of this section. These sections of the Code of Iowa are adopted by
reference and are as follows:
1.   Section321.17 – Misdemeanor to violate registration provisions.
2.   Section 321.32 – Registration card, carried and exhibited; exception.
3.   Section 321.37 – Display of plates.
4.   Section 321.38 – Plates, method of attaching, imitations prohibited.
5.   Section 321.57 – Operation under special plates.
6.   Section 321.67 – Certificate of title must be executed.
7.   Section 321.78 – Injuring or tampering with vehicle.
8.   Section 321.79 – Intent to injure.
9.   Section 321.91 – Limitation on liability; penalty for abandonment.
10.   Section 321.98 – Operation without registration.
11.   Section 321.99 – Fraudulent use of registration.
12.   Section 321.104 – Penal offenses against title law.
13.   Section 321.11">321.115 – Antique vehicles; model year plates permitted.
14.   Section 321.174 – Operators licensed; operation of commercial vehicles.
15.   Section 321.174A – Operation of motor vehicle with expired license.
16.   Section 321.180 – Instruction permits, commercial learner’s permits, and
chauffeur’s instruction permits.
17.   Section 321.180B – Graduated driver’s licenses for persons aged fourteen
through seventeen.
18.   Section 321.193 – Restrictions on licenses; penalty.
19.   Section 321.194 – Special minors’ licenses.
20.   Section 321.208A – Operation in violation of out-of-service order;
penalties.
21.   Section 321.216 – Unlawful use of license and nonoperator’s
identification card; penalty.
22.   Section 321.216B – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain alcohol.
23.   Section 321.216C – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain tobacco, tobacco products
alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes.
24.   Section 321.218 – Operating without valid driver’s license or when
disqualified; penalties.
25.   Section 321.219 – Permitting unauthorized minor to drive.
26.   Section 321.220 – Permitting unauthorized person to drive.
27.   Section 321.221 – Employing unlicensed chauffeur.
28.   Section 321.222 – Renting motor vehicle to another.
29.   Section 321.223 – Driver’s license inspection for motor vehicle rental.
30.   Section 321.224 – Record kept.
31.   Section 321.232 – Speed detection jamming devices; penalty.
32.   Section 321.234A – All-terrain vehicles, highway use.
33.   Section 321.235A – Electric personal assistive mobility devices.
34.   Section 321.235B – Low-speed electric bicycles.
35.   Section 321.247 – Golf cart operation on City streets.
36.   Section 321.257 – Official traffic control signal.
37.   Section 321.259 – Unauthorized signs, signals or markings.
38.   Section 321.260 – Interference with devices, signs, or signals; unlawful
possession; traffic signal preemption devices.
39.   Section 321.262 – Leaving scene of traffic accident prohibited; vehicle
damage only; removal of vehicles.
40.   Section 321.263 – Information and aid; leaving scene of personal injury
accident.
41.   Section 321.264 – Striking unattended vehicle.
42.   Section 321.265 – Striking fixtures upon a highway.
43.   Section 321.266 – Reporting accidents.
44.   Section 321.275 – Operation of motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
45.   Section 321.276 – Use of electronic communication device while driving;
text-messaging.
46.   Section 321.277 – Reckless driving.
47.   Section 321.277A – Careless driving.
48.   Section 321.278 – Drag racing prohibited.
49.   Section 321.281 – Actions against bicyclists.
50.   Section 321.284 – Open container in motor vehicles, drivers.
51.   Section 321.284A – Open container in motor vehicles, passengers.
52.   Section 321.288 – Control of vehicle; reduced speed.
53.   Section 321.295 – Limitation on bridge or elevated structures.
54.   Section 321.297 – Driving on right-hand side of roadways; exceptions.
55.   Section 321.298 – Meeting and turning to right.
56.   Section 321.299 – Overtaking a vehicle.
57.   Section 321.302 – Overtaking and passing.
58.   Section 321.303 – Limitations on overtaking on the left.
59.   Section 321.304 – Prohibited passing.
60.   Section 321.305 – One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands.
61.   Section 321.306 – Roadways laned for traffic.
62.   Section 321.307 – Following too closely.
63.   Section 321.309 – Towing.
64.   Section 321.310 – Towing four-wheel trailers.
65.   Section 321.312 – Turning on curve or crest of grade.
66.   Section 321.313 – Starting parked vehicle.
67.   Section 321.314 – When signal required.
68.   Section 321.315 – Signal continuous.
69.   Section 321.316 – Stopping.
70.   Section 321.317 – Signals by hand and arm or signal device.
71.   Section 321.318 – Method of giving hand and arm signals.
72.   Section 321.319 – Entering intersections from different highways.
73.   Section 321.320 – Left turns; yielding.
74.   Section 321.321 – Entering through highways.
75.   Section 321.322 – Vehicles entering stop or yield intersection.
76.   Section 321.323 – Moving vehicle backward on highway.
77.   Section 321.323A – Approaching certain stationary vehicles.
78.   Section 321.324 – Operation on approach of emergency vehicles.
79.   Section 321.324A – Funeral processions.
80.   Section 321.329 – Duty of driver; pedestrians crossing or working on
highways.
81.   Section 321.330 – Use of crosswalks.
82.   Section 321.332 – White canes restricted to blind persons.
83.   Section 321.333 – Duty of drivers.
84.   Section 321.340 – Driving through safety zone.
85.   Section 321.341 – Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad
train or railroad track equipment.
86.   Section 321.342 – Stop at certain railroad crossings; posting warning.
87.   Section 321.343 – Certain vehicles must stop.
88.   Section 321.344 – Heavy equipment at crossing.
89.   Section 321.344B – Immediate safety threat; penalty.
90.   Section 321.354 – Stopping on traveled way.
91.   Section 321.359 – Moving other vehicle.
92.   Section 321.362 – Unattended motor vehicle.
93.   Section 321.363 – Obstruction to driver’s view.
94.   Section 321.364 – Preventing contamination of food by hazardous material.
95.   Section 321.365 – Coasting prohibited.
96.   Section 321.366 – Acts prohibited on fully-controlled access facilities.
97.   Section 321.367 – Following fire apparatus.
98.   Section 321.368 – Crossing fire hose.
99.   Section 321.369 – Putting debris on highway.
100.   Section 321.370 – Removing injurious material.
101.   Section 321.371 – Clearing up wrecks.
102.   Section 321.372 – Discharging pupils, stopping requirements; penalties.
103.   Section 321.381 – Movement of unsafe or improperly equipped vehicles.
104.   Section 321.381A – Operation of low-speed vehicles.
105.   Section 321.382 – Upgrade pulls; minimum speed.
106.   Section 321.383 – Exceptions; slow vehicles identified.
107.   Section 321.384 – When lighted lamps required.
108.   Section 321.385 – Head lamps on motor vehicles.
109.   Section 321.386 – Head lamps on motorcycles, motorized bicycles, and
all-terrain vehicles.
110.   Section 321.387 – Rear lamps.
111.   Section 321.388 – Illuminating plates.
112.   Section 321.389 – Reflector requirement.
113.   Section 321.390 – Reflector requirements.
114.   Section 321.392 – Clearance and identification lights.
115.   Section 321.393 – Color and mounting.
116.   Section 321.394 – Lamp or flag on projecting load.
117.   Section 321.395 – Lamps on parked vehicles.
118.   Section 321.398 – Lamps on other vehicles and equipment.
119.   Section 321.402 – Spot lamps.
120.   Section 321.403 – Auxiliary driving lamps.
121.   Section 321.404 – Signal lamps and signal devices.
122.   Section 321.404A – Light-restricting devices prohibited.
123.   Section 321.405 – Self-illumination.
124.   Section 321.408 – Back-up lamps.
125.   Section 321.409 – Mandatory lighting equipment.
126.   Section 321.415 – Required usage of lighting devices.
127.   Section 321.417 – Single-beam road-lighting equipment.
128.   Section 321.418 – Alternate road-lighting equipment.
129.   Section 321.419 – Number of driving lamps required or permitted.
130.   Section 321.420 – Number of lamps lighted.
131.   Section 321.421 – Special restrictions on lamps.
132.   Section 321.422 – Red light in front, rear lights.
133.   Section 321.423 – Flashing lights.
134.   Section 321.430 – Brake, hitch, and control requirements.
135.   Section 321.431 – Performance ability.
136.   Section 321.432 – Horns and warning devices.
137.   Section 321.433 – Sirens, whistles, air horns, and bells prohibited.
138.   Section 321.434 – Bicycle sirens or whistles.
139.   Section 321.436 – Mufflers, prevention of noise.
140.   Section 321.437 – Mirrors.
141.   Section 321.438 – Windshields and windows.
142.   Section 321.439 – Windshield wipers.
143.   Section 321.440 – Restrictions as to tire equipment.
144.   Section 321.441 – Metal tires prohibited.
145.   Section 321.442 – Projections on wheels.
146.   Section 321.444 – Safety glass.
147.   Section 321.445 – Safety belts and safety harnesses; use required.
148.   Section 321.446 – Child restraint devices.
149.   Section 321.449 – Motor carrier safety rules.
150.   Section 321.449A – Rail crew transport drivers.
151.   Section 321.449B – Texting or using a mobile telephone while operating a
commercial motor vehicle.
152.   Section 321.450 – Hazardous materials transportation regulations.
153.   Section 321.454 – Width of vehicles.
154.   Section 321.455 – Projecting loads on passenger vehicles.
155.   Section 321.456 – Height of vehicles.
156.   Section 321.457 – Maximum length.
157.   Section 321.458 – Loading beyond front.
158.   Section 321.460 – Spilling loads on highways.
159.   Section 321.461 – Trailers and towed vehicles.
160.   Section 321.462 – Drawbars and safety chains.
161.   Section 321.463 – Maximum gross weight; exceptions, penalties.
162.   Section 321.465 – Weighing vehicles and removal of excess.
163.   Section 321.466 – Increased loading capacity; reregistration.
62.02 PLAY STREETS DESIGNATED.
The Police Chief shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a
play street and cause to be placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway
indicating and helping to protect the same. Whenever authorized signs are
erected indicating any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall
drive a vehicle upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of
vehicles having business or whose residences are within such closed area, and
then any said driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such
street or portion thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
62.03 VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk area except
at a driveway.
62.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLE.
No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of the City unless all
passengers of said vehicle are inside the vehicle in the place intended for
their accommodation. No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
in-line skates, sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or
herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
62.05 QUIET ZONES.
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
62.06 OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS.
It is unlawful to allow any tree, hedge, billboard, or other object to obstruct
the view of an intersection by preventing persons from having a clear view of
traffic approaching the intersection from cross streets. Any such obstruction
is deemed a nuisance and in addition to the standard penalty may be abated in
the manner provided by
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
62.07 MILLING.
It is unlawful to drive or operate a vehicle, either singly or with others, in
any processional milling or repeated movement over any street to the
interference with normal traffic use, or to the annoyance or offense of any
person.
62.08 ENGINE BRAKES AND COMPRESSION BRAKES.
1.   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate or
cause to be used or operated within the City any engine brake, compression
brake, or mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the braking or
deceleration of any such vehicle that results in excessive, loud, unusual, or
explosive noise from such vehicle, except in response to an imminent traffic
accident.
2.   The usage of an engine brake, compression brake, or mechanical exhaust
device designed to aid in braking or deceleration in such a manner so as to be
audible at a distance of 300 feet from the motor vehicle shall constitute
evidence of a prima facie violation of this section.
3.   The scheduled fine for a violation of this section shall be $100.00.
CHAPTER 63
SPEED REGULATIONS
 
63.01 General                             63.04 Special Speed Zones
63.02 State Code Speed Limits             63.05 Minimum Speed
63.03 Parks, Cemeteries, and Parking Lots 63.06 Controlled Access Facilities
 
63.01 GENERAL.
Every driver of a motor vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a careful
and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and proper,
having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and of any
other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle on any
street at a speed greater than will permit said driver to bring it to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right to
assume, however, that all persons using said street will observe the law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.285)
63.02 STATE CODE SPEED LIMITS.
The following speed limits are established in Section 321.285 of the Code of
Iowa and any speed in excess thereof is unlawful unless specifically designated
otherwise in this chapter as a special speed zone.
1.   Business District – 20 MPH.
2.   Residence or School District – 25 MPH.
3.   Suburban District – 45 MPH.
63.03 PARKS, CEMETERIES, AND PARKING LOTS.
A speed in excess of 15 MPH in any public park, cemetery, or parking lot,
unless specifically designated otherwise in this chapter, is unlawful.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[5])
63.04 SPECIAL SPEED ZONES.
In accordance with requirements of the Iowa Department of Transportation, or
whenever the Council shall determine upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that any speed limit listed in Section
63.02 is greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found
to exist at any intersection or other place or upon any part of the City street
system, the Council shall determine and adopt by ordinance such higher or lower
speed limit as it deems reasonable and safe at such location. The following
special speed zones have been established:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.290)
1.   Special 15 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 15 MPH is unlawful on any
of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   Alley between South Eliza Street and South Olive Street from East
Pleasant Street to East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64).
2.   Special 20 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 20 MPH is unlawful on any
of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) from Eliza Street to Niagara Street; and
on Main Street from Maple Street to Quarry Street.
3.   Special 25 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 25 MPH is unlawful on any
of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   In any residential district.
   B.   Myatt Drive from Summit Street to the south City limits.
   C.   Old U.S. Highway 61 from the intersection of Grove Street and North
Main Street to the north end of the City limits.
4.   Special 30 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 30 MPH is unlawful on any
of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   East Summit Street from South Matteson Street to Jacobsen Drive.
   B.   Jacobsen Drive from East Summit Street to East Platt Street (U.S.
Highway 64).
   C.   East Platt (U.S. Highway 64) from Jacobsen Drive to Eliza Street.
   D.   West Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) from Niagara Street to the
intersection of Iowa Highways 61 and 64.
   E.   Seventeenth Street from South Main Street east to 211 th Avenue.
   F.   211 th Avenue south to terminus at 13 th Street.
   G.   13 th Street from 211 th Avenue east to City limits.
5.   Special 35 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 35 MPH is unlawful on any
of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   South Main Street from Monroe Street to the southbound on ramp of
Highway 61.
6.   Special 45 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 45 MPH is unlawful on any
of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   In any suburban district except as follows:
      (1)   The maximum speed on Western Avenue shall be 25 MPH for northbound
traffic and southbound traffic between West Summit Street and West Platt Street
(U.S. Highway 64).
   B.   Iowa Highway 64 from Jacobsen Drive to the east City limits.
   C.   Iowa Highway 62 from Iowa Highway 64 to the north City limits.
7.   Special 55 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 55 MPH is unlawful on any
of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   Southbound ramp of Highway 61 to Family Dollar Parkway.
8.   Special 65 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 65 MPH is unlawful on any
of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   U.S. Highway 61 four-lane that runs inside City limits.
63.05 MINIMUM SPEED.
A person shall not drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation, or in compliance with law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.294)
63.06 CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES.
Speed limits on controlled access facilities are as specified in
Chapter 140 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 64
TURNING REGULATIONS
 
64.01 Turning at Intersections 64.03 Left Turn for Parking
64.02 U-Turns
 
64.01 TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.311)
1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
2.   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half
of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to depart from the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
3.   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street shall
be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the centerline
thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it enters the
intersection. A left turn from a one-way street into a two-way street shall be
made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street being entered upon
leaving the intersection.
The Police Chief may cause markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or
adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct, as traffic conditions
require, that a different course from that specified above be traveled by
vehicles turning at intersections, and when markers, buttons or signs are so
placed, no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other
than as directed and required by such markers, buttons, or signs.
64.02 U-TURNS.
It is unlawful for a driver to make a U-turn except at an intersection;
however, U-turns are prohibited within the Business District at the following
designated intersections and at intersections where there are automatic traffic
signals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[9])
1.   Westbound on East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64)) at the intersection of
Highway 62 and Highway 64.
64.03 LEFT TURN FOR PARKING.
No person shall make a left hand turn, crossing the centerline of the street,
for the purpose of parking on said street.
CHAPTER 65
STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED
 
65.01 Arterial Streets Designated 65.06 Stop Before Crossing Sidewalk
65.02 Stop Required               65.07 Stop When Traffic Is Obstructed
65.03 Four-Way Stop Intersections 65.08 Pedestrians' Right-of-Way
65.04 Yield Required              65.09 Official Traffic Controls
65.05 School Stops
 
65.01 ARTERIAL STREETS DESIGNATED.
All of Main Street; all of Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64); Pleasant Street from
Prospect Street to Matteson Avenue; West Summit Street from Main Street to and
including Western Avenue; Quarry Street from Vermont Street to and including
Dearborn Street; Maple Street from and including 4th Street to Niagara Street;
Maple Street from Niagara Street to Main Street; Maple Street from Olive Street
to Matteson Avenue; Maple Street from Matteson Avenue to and including Clark
Street; Locust Street from Main Street to Vermont Street; Matteson Avenue from
Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) to East Judson Street; Olive Street from
Pleasant Street to Locust Street; Niagara Street from Pleasant Street to Locust
Street; are hereby designated as arterial highways and all vehicles shall stop
or yield before entering such streets from intersecting streets, private
drives, and alleys.
65.02 STOP REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
1.   Numerically Named Streets
   A.   213 th Avenue. Vehicles traveling south on 213 th Avenue shall stop at
U.S. Highway 62.
2.   Streets beginning with “A.”
   A.   Access Lane. Vehicles traveling east on Access Lane shall stop at
Farmland Drive.
   B.   Access Lane. Vehicles traveling west on Access Lane shall stop at
Farmland Drive.
   C.   Arcade Street. Vehicles traveling north on Arcade Street shall stop at
West Grove Street.
   D.   Arcade Street. Vehicles traveling south on Arcade Street shall stop at
West Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64).
   E.   Austin Avenue. Vehicles traveling south on Austin Avenue shall stop at
West Maple Street.
3.   Streets beginning with “B.”
   A.   Bear River Drive. Vehicles traveling east on Bear River Drive shall
stop at Creslane Street.
   B.   Bear River Drive. Vehicles traveling north on Bear River Drive shall
stop at German Street.
(Paragraphs A and B – Ord. 1219 – May 24 Supp.)
4.   Streets beginning with “C.”
   A.   Cardinal Drive. Vehicles traveling north on Cardinal Drive shall stop
at Pershing Road.
   B.   Carlisle Street. Vehicles traveling east on Carlisle Street shall stop
at 200 th Avenue.
   C.   Country Club Drive. Vehicles traveling east on Country Club Drive shall
stop at Myatt Drive.
   D.   County Road Street. Vehicles traveling south on County Road Street
shall stop at Pershing Road.
5.   Streets beginning with “D.”
   A.   David Street. Vehicles traveling east on David Street shall stop at 200
th Avenue.
   B.   David Street. Vehicles traveling west on David Street shall stop at
Nairn Drive.
   C.   Dunham Court. Vehicles traveling east on Dunham Court shall stop at
South Prospect Street.
   D.   Dunham Court. Vehicles traveling west on Dunham Court shall stop at
South Vermont Street.
6.   Streets beginning with “E.”
   A.   East Apple Street. Vehicles traveling east on East Apple Street shall
stop at North Dearborn Street.
   B.   East Apple Street. Vehicles traveling east on East Apple Street shall
stop at North Main.
   C.   East Apple Street. Vehicles traveling east on East Apple Street shall
stop at North Otto Street.
   D.   East Apple Street. Vehicles traveling west on East Apple Street shall
stop at North Dearborn Street.
   E.   East Apple Street. Vehicles traveling west on East Apple Street shall
stop at North Otto Street.
   F.   East Grove Street. Vehicles traveling east on East Grove Street shall
stop at North Main Street.
   G.   East Grove Street. Vehicles traveling east on East Grove Street shall
stop at North Walnut Street.
   H.   East Grove Street. Vehicles traveling west on East Grove Street shall
stop at North Walnut Street.
   I.   East Jefferson Street. Vehicles traveling west on East Jefferson Street
shall stop at South Main Street.
   J.   East Judson Street. Vehicles traveling west on East Judson Street shall
stop at South Main Street.
   K.   East Locust Street. Vehicles traveling east on East Locust Street shall
stop at Eliza Street.
   L.   East Locust Street. Vehicles traveling east on East Locust Street shall
stop at South Olive Street.
   M.   East Locust Street. Vehicles traveling west on East Locust Street shall
stop at Eliza Street.
   N.   East Locust Street. Vehicles traveling west on East Locust Street shall
stop at South Olive Street.
   O.   East Maple Street. Vehicles traveling east on East Maple Street shall
stop at Jacobsen Drive.
   P.   East Maple Street. Vehicles traveling east on East Maple Street shall
stop at South Main Street.
   Q.   East Maple Street. Vehicles traveling east on East Maple Street shall
stop at South Olive Street.
   R.   East Maple Street. Vehicles traveling west on East Maple Street shall
stop at Jacobsen Drive.
   S.   East Maple Street. Vehicles traveling west on East Maple Street shall
stop at South Olive Street.
   T.   East Maple Street. Vehicles traveling west on West Maple Street shall
stop at South Main Street.
   U.   East Monroe Street. Vehicles traveling west on East Monroe Street shall
stop at South Main Street.
   V.   East Monroe Street. Vehicles traveling west on West Monroe Street shall
stop at South Main Street.
   W.   East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64). Vehicles traveling south on North
Edna Street shall stop at East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64).
   X.   East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64). Vehicles traveling south on North
Walnut Street shall stop at East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64).
   Y.   East Pleasant Street. Vehicles traveling east on East Pleasant Street
shall stop at South Clark.
   Z.   East Pleasant Street. Vehicles traveling east on East Pleasant Street
shall stop at South Main Street.
   AA.   East Pleasant Street. Vehicles traveling east on East Pleasant Street
shall stop at South Matteson Street.
   BB.   East Pleasant Street. Vehicles traveling west on East Pleasant Street
shall stop at South Matteson Street.
   CC.   East Pleasant Street. Vehicles traveling west on West Pleasant Street
shall stop at South Main Street.
   DD.   East Quarry Street. Vehicles traveling east on East Quarry Street
shall stop at North Walnut Street.
   EE.   East Quarry Street. Vehicles traveling west on East Quarry Street
shall stop at North Walnut Street.
   FF.   East Summit Street. Vehicles traveling east on East Summit Street
shall stop at South Main Street.
   GG.   Eddy Street. Vehicles traveling east on Eddy Street shall stop at
South Vermont Street.
   HH.   Ehlers Lane. Vehicles traveling south on Ehlers Lane shall stop at
U.S. Highway 64.
7.   Streets beginning with “F.”
   A.   Forrest Drive. Vehicles traveling south on Forrest Drive shall stop at
West Summit.
   B.   Forrest Drive. Vehicles traveling west on Forrest Drive shall stop at
Western Avenue.
8.   Streets beginning with “G.”
   A.   German Street. Vehicles traveling north on Creslane Drive shall stop at
German Street.
9.   Streets beginning with “H.”
   A.   High School Drive. Vehicles traveling east on High School Drive shall
stop at Washington Street.
   B.   Hospital Drive. Vehicles traveling west on Hospital Drive shall stop at
200 th Avenue.
10.   Streets beginning with “I.”
   A.   Iowa State University Avenue. Vehicles traveling west on Iowa State
University Avenue shall stop at U.S. Highway 62.
11.   Streets beginning with “J.”
   A.   Jacobson Drive. Vehicles traveling north on Jacobson Drive shall stop
at U.S. Highway 64.
   B.   James Street. Vehicles traveling east on James Street shall stop at
North Main Street.
   C.   James Street. Vehicles traveling east on James Street shall stop at
North Niagara Street.
   D.   James Street. Vehicles traveling east on James Street shall stop at
North Second Street.
   E.   James Street. Vehicles traveling west on James Street shall stop at
North Niagara Street.
12.   Streets beginning with “K.”
13.   Streets beginning with “L.”
   A.   Locust Street. Vehicles traveling east on Locust Street shall stop at
South Main Street.
   B.   Locust Street. Vehicles traveling west on Locust Street shall stop at
South Main Street.
14.   Streets beginning with “M.”
   A.   Maquoketa Park Apartments Road. Vehicles traveling south on Maquoketa
Park Apartments Road shall stop at German Street.
   B.   McKinsey Drive. Vehicles traveling north on McKinsey Drive shall stop
at German Street.
   C.   Melrose Street. Vehicles traveling north on Melrose Street shall stop
at West Summit Street.
   D.   Moore Drive. Vehicles traveling west on Moore Drive shall stop at Myatt
Drive.
   E.   Moore Drive. Vehicles traveling east on Moore Drive shall stop at the
Frontage Road.
15.   Streets beginning with “N.”
   A.   North Anderson Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Anderson
Street shall stop at East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64).
   B.   North Clark Street. Vehicles traveling north on North Clark Street
shall stop at East Grove Street.
   C.   North Dearborn Street. Vehicles traveling north on North Dearborn
Street shall stop at East Grove Street.
   D.   North Dearborn Street. Vehicles traveling north on North Dearborn
Street shall stop at Pershing Road.
   E.   North Dearborn Street. Vehicles traveling north on North Dearborn
Street shall stop at East Quarry Street.
   F.   North Dearborn Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Dearborn
Street shall stop at East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64).
   G.   North Dearborn Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Dearborn
Street shall stop at East Grove Street.
   H.   North Dearborn Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Dearborn
Street shall stop at East Quarry Street.
   I.   North Decker Street. Vehicles traveling north on North Decker Street
shall stop at West Apple Street.
   J.   North Decker Street. Vehicles traveling north on North Decker Street
shall stop at West Quarry Street.
   K.   North Decker Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Decker Street
shall stop at West Apple Street.
   L.   North Decker Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Decker Street
shall stop at West Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64).
   M.   North Eliza Street. Vehicles traveling east on East Quarry Street shall
stop at North Eliza Street.
   N.   North Eliza Street. Vehicles traveling north on North Eliza Street
shall stop at East Apple Street .
   O.   North Eliza Street. Vehicles traveling north on North Eliza Street
shall stop at East Grove Street.
   P.   North Eliza Street. Vehicles traveling north on North Eliza Street
shall stop at East Quarry Street.
   Q.   North Eliza Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Eliza Street
shall stop at East Apple Street.
   R.   North Eliza Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Eliza Street
shall stop at East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64).
   S.   North Eliza Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Eliza Street
shall stop at East Grove Street.
   T.   North Eliza Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Eliza Street
shall stop at East Quarry Street.
   U.   North Eliza Street. Vehicles traveling west on East Quarry Street shall
stop at North Eliza Street.
   V.   North Fifth Street. Vehicles traveling north on North Fifth Street
shall stop at West Grove Street.
   W.   North Fifth Street. Vehicles traveling north on North Fifth Street
shall stop at West Quarry Street.
   X.   North Fifth Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Fifth Street
shall stop at West Grove Street.
   Y.   North Fifth Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Fifth Street
shall stop at West Quarry Street.
   Z.   North Fifth Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Fifth Street
shall stop at West Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64).
   AA.   North Matteson Street. Vehicles traveling north on North Matteson
Street shall stop at East Quarry Street.
   BB.   North Matteson Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Matteson
Street shall stop at East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64).
   CC.   North Matteson Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Matteson
Street shall stop at East Quarry Street.
   DD.   North Niagara Street. Vehicles traveling north on North Niagara Street
shall stop at West Grove Street.
   EE.   North Niagara Street. Vehicles traveling north on North Niagara Street
shall stop at West Quarry Street.
   FF.   North Niagara Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Niagara Street
shall stop at West Quarry Street.
   GG.   North Olive Street. Vehicles traveling north on North Olive Street on
shall stop at East Apple Street.
   HH.   North Olive Street. Vehicles traveling north on North Olive Street
shall stop at West Grove Street.
   II.   North Olive Street. Vehicles traveling north on North Olive Street
shall stop at East Quarry Street.
   JJ.   North Olive Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Olive Street on
shall stop at East Apple Street.
   KK.   North Olive Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Olive Street
shall stop at West Grove Street.
   LL.   North Olive Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Olive Street
shall stop at East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64).
   MM.   North Olive Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Olive Street
shall stop at East Quarry Street.
   NN.   North Otto Street. Vehicles traveling north on North Otto Street shall
stop at West Grove Street.
   OO.   North Otto Street. Vehicles traveling north on North Otto Street shall
stop at East Quarry Street.
   PP.   North Otto Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Otto Street shall
stop at West Grove Street.
   QQ.   North Otto Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Otto Street shall
stop at East Quarry Street.
   RR.   North Otto Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Otto Street shall
stop at East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64).
   SS.   North Second Street. Vehicles traveling north on North Second Street
shall stop at West Quarry Street.
   TT.   North Second Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Second Street
shall stop at West Quarry Street.
   UU.   North Second Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Second Street.
shall stop at West Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64).
   VV.   North Street. Vehicles traveling east on North Street shall stop at
North Otto Street.
   WW.   North Street. Vehicles traveling west on North Street shall stop at
North Main Street.
   XX.   North Walnut Street. Vehicles traveling north on North Walnut Street
shall stop at East Quarry Street.
   YY.   North Walnut Street. Vehicles traveling south on North Walnut Street
shall stop at East Quarry Street.
16.   Streets beginning with “O.”
17.   Streets beginning with “P.”
   A.   Pershing Road. Vehicles traveling west on Pershing Road shall stop at
North Main Street.
18.   Streets beginning with “Q.”
19.   Streets beginning with “R.”
   A.   Rosemere Lane. Vehicles traveling south on Rosemere Lane shall stop at
West Summit Street.
20.   Streets beginning with “S.”
   A.   South Clark Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Clark Street
shall stop at East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64).
   B.   South Clark Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Clark Street
shall stop at East Maple Street.
   C.   South Clark Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Clark Street
shall stop at East Maple Street.
   D.   South Dearborn Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Dearborn
Street shall stop at East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64).
   E.   South Eliza Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Eliza Street
shall stop at East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64).
   F.   South Eliza Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Eliza Street
shall stop at East Judson Street.
   G.   South Eliza Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Eliza Street
shall stop at East Maple Street.
   H.   South Eliza Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Eliza Street
shall stop at East Pleasant Street.
   I.   South Eliza Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Eliza Street
shall stop at East Judson Street.
   J.   South Eliza Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Eliza Street
shall stop at East Maple Street.
   K.   South Eliza Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Eliza Street
shall stop at East Pleasant Street.
   L.   South Fifth Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Fifth Street
shall stop at West Monroe Street.
   M.   South Fifth Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Fifth Street
shall stop at West Pleasant Street.
   N.   South Fifth Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Fifth Street
shall stop at West Summit Street.
   O.   South Fifth Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Fifth Street
shall stop at West Washington Street.
   P.   South Fifth Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Fifth Street
shall stop at West Monroe Street.
   Q.   South Fifth Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Fifth Street
shall stop at West Summit Street.
   R.   South Fifth Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Fifth Street
shall stop at Washington Street.
   S.   South Fourth Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Fourth Street
shall stop at West Locust Street.
   T.   South Fourth Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Fourth Street
shall stop at West Monroe Street.
   U.   South Fourth Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Fourth Street
shall stop at West Locust Street.
   V.   South Fourth Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Fourth Street
shall stop at West Monroe Street.
   W.   South Fourth Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Fourth Street
shall stop at Washington Street.
   X.   South Jones Avenue. Vehicles traveling south on South Jones Avenue
shall stop at West Summit Street.
   Y.   South Jones Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Jones Street
shall stop at West Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64).
   Z.   South Main Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Main Street shall
stop at Pleasant Street.
   AA.   South Main Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Main Street shall
stop at Summit Street.
   BB.   South Main Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Main Street shall
stop at Pleasant Street.
   CC.   South Main Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Main Street shall
stop at Summit Street.
   DD.   South Matteson Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Matteson
Street shall stop at East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64).
   EE.   South Matteson Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Matteson
Street shall stop at East Maple Street.
   FF.   South Matteson Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Matteson
Street shall stop at East Maple Street.
   GG.   South Niagara Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Niagara Street
shall stop at West Locust Street.
   HH.   South Niagara Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Niagara Street
shall stop at West Summit Street.
   II.   South Niagara Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Niagara Street
shall stop at Washington Street.
   JJ.   South Niagara Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Niagara Street
shall stop at West Locust Street.
   KK.   South Niagara Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Niagara Street
shall stop at West Summit Street.
   LL.   South Niagara Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Niagara Street
shall stop at Washington Street.
   MM.   South Olive Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Olive Street
shall stop at East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64).
   NN.   South Olive Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Olive Street
shall stop at East Pleasant Street.
   OO.   South Olive Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Olive Street
shall stop at East Locust Street.
   PP.   South Olive Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Olive Street
shall stop at East Pleasant Street.
   QQ.   South Otto Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Otto Street shall
stop at East Pleasant Street.
   RR.   South Otto Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Otto Street shall
stop at East Maple Street.
   SS.   South Otto Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Otto Street shall
stop at East Maple Street.
   TT.   South Prospect Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Prospect
Street shall stop at West Locust Street.
   UU.   South Prospect Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Prospect
Street shall stop at West Locust Street.
   VV.   South Prospect Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Prospect
Street shall stop at West Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64).
   WW.   South Second Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Second Street
shall stop at West Maple Street.
   XX.   South Second Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Second Street
shall stop at West Pleasant Street.
   YY.   South Second Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Second Street
shall stop at West Summit Street.
   ZZ.   South Second Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Second Street
shall stop at West Maple Street.
   AAA.   South Second Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Second Street
shall stop at West Pleasant Street.
   BBB.   South Second Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Second Street
shall stop at West Summit Street.
   CCC.   South Second Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Second Street
shall stop at West Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64).
   DDD.   South Vermont Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Vermont
Street shall stop at Eddy Street.
   EEE.   South Vermont Street. Vehicles traveling north on South Vermont
Street shall stop at West Summit Street.
   FFF.   South Vermont Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Vermont
Street shall stop at Eddy Street.
   GGG.   South Vermont Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Vermont
Street shall stop at extension on Washington Street.
   HHH.   South Vermont Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Vermont
Street shall stop at West Summit Street.
   III.   South Vermont Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Vermont
Street shall stop at Washington Street.
   JJJ.   South Otto Street. Vehicles traveling south on South Otto shall stop
at East Locust Street.   
(Paragraph JJJ – Ord. 1216 – Mar. 24 Supp.)
21.   Streets beginning with “T.”
   A.   Timber Drive. Vehicles traveling south on Timber Drive shall stop at
Hospital Drive.
22.   Streets beginning with “U.”
   A.   U.S. Highway 62. Vehicles traveling south on U.S. Highway 62 shall stop
at U.S. Highway 64.
   B.   U.S. Highway 64. Vehicles traveling west on U.S. Highway 64 shall stop
at U.S. Highway 62.
23.   Streets beginning with “V.”
24.   Streets beginning with “W.”
   A.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling east on Washington Street shall
stop at South Fifth Street.
   B.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling east on Washington Street shall
stop at South Fourth Street.
   C.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling east on Washington Street shall
stop at South Vermont Street.
   D.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling east on Washington Street shall
stop at South Niagara Street.
   E.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling west on Washington Street shall
stop South Fifth Street.
   F.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling west on Washington Street shall
stop at South Fourth Street.
   G.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling west on Washington Street shall
stop at South Niagara Street.
   H.   West Apple Street. Vehicles traveling east on West Apple Street shall
stop at North Niagara Street.
   I.   West Apple Street. Vehicles traveling east on West Apple Street shall
stop at North Second Street.
   J.   West Apple Street. Vehicles traveling east on West Apple Street shall
stop at North Main.
   K.   West Apple Street. Vehicles traveling west on West Apple Street shall
stop at North Niagara Street.
   L.   West Apple Street. Vehicles traveling west on West Apple Street shall
stop at North Fifth Street.
   M.   West Apple Street. Vehicles traveling west on West Apple Street shall
stop at North Second Street.
   N.   West Grove Street. Vehicles traveling west on West Grove Street shall
stop at Arcade Street.
   O.   West Jefferson Street. Vehicles traveling east on West Jefferson Street
shall stop at South Second Street.
   P.   West Jefferson Street. Vehicles traveling west on West Jefferson Street
shall stop at South Fifth Street.
   Q.   West Jefferson Street. Vehicles traveling west on West Jefferson Street
shall stop at South Niagara Street.
   R.   West Locust Street. Vehicles traveling west on West Locust Street shall
stop at South Vermont Street.
   S.   West Maple Street. Vehicles traveling east on West Maple Street shall
stop at South Niagara Street.
   T.   West Maple Street. Vehicles traveling west on West Maple Street shall
stop at South Fifth Street.
   U.   West Maple Street. Vehicles traveling west on West Maple Street shall
stop at South Niagara Street.
   V.   West Monroe Street. Vehicles traveling west on West Monroe Street shall
stop at South Fifth Street.
   W.   West Pleasant Street. Vehicles traveling east on West Pleasant Street
shall stop at South Niagara Street.
   X.   West Pleasant Street. Vehicles traveling west on West Pleasant Street
shall stop at South Niagara Street.
   Y.   West Quarry Street. Vehicles traveling east on West Quarry Street shall
stop at North Vermont Street.
   Z.   West Quarry Street. Vehicles traveling west on West Quarry Street shall
stop at Arcade Street.
   AA.   West Quarry Street. Vehicles traveling west on West Quarry Street
shall stop at North Vermont Street.
   BB.   West Summit Street. Vehicles traveling east on West Summit Street
shall stop at South Vermont Street.
   CC.   Western Avenue. Vehicles traveling south on Western Avenue shall stop
at West Summit Street.
25.   Streets beginning with “X.”
26.   Streets beginning with “Y.”
27.   Streets beginning with “Z.”
65.03 FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the following designated
four-way stop intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
1.   Intersection of East Pleasant Street and South Olive Street.
2.   Intersection of North Eliza Street and East Quarry Street
3.   Intersection of North Fifth Street and West Quarry Street.
4.   Intersection of North Main Street and Quarry Street.
5.   Intersection of North Niagara Street and West Quarry Street.
6.   Intersection of South Main Street and Pleasant Street
7.   Intersection of South Main Street and Summit Street
8.   Intersection of Vermont Street and West Summit Street
9.   Intersection of Washington and South 5th Street
65.04 YIELD REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall yield in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
1.   Streets beginning with “A.”
   A.   Access Lane on Farmland Drive going north.
   B.   Allen Street on East Jefferson Street going east.
   C.   Arcade Street on German Street going east.
2.   Streets beginning with “B.”
   A.   Butternut Street on Lisa Drive going west.
3.   Streets beginning with “C.”
   A.   Cardinal Drive on Lisa Drive going east.
   B.   Cardinal Drive on East Grove Drive going north.
   C.   Country Club Drive on Okeeta Drive going west.
   D.   Cynthia Drive on Cardinal Drive going south.
4.   Streets beginning with “D.”
5.   Streets beginning with “E.”
   A.   East Apple Street on North Clark Street going south.
   B.   East Apple Street on North Matteson Street going north.
   C.   East Grove on Cynthia Drive going south.
   D.   East Grove Street on Butternut Street going south.
   E.   East Grove Street on Kathey Drive going north.
   F.   East Judson Street on South Clark Street going south.
   G.   East Pleasant Street on North Dearborn Street going south.
   H.   East Pleasant Street on South Otto Street going north.
   I.   East Pleasant Street on South Otto Street going south.
   J.   East Quarry Street on Anderson Street going north.
   K.   East Quarry Street on Edna Street going north.
   L.   East Summit Street on Allen Street going north.
   M.   East Summit Street on South Eliza Street going south.
   N.   East Summit Street on South Matteson Street going south.
6.   Streets beginning with “F.”
7.   Streets beginning with “G.”
8.   Streets beginning with “H.”
9.   Streets beginning with “I.”
10.   Streets beginning with “J.”
11.   Streets beginning with “K.”
12.   Streets beginning with “L.”
   A.   Lisa Drive on Cynthia Drive going north.
13.   Streets beginning with “M.”
   A.   Matteson Street on Locust Street going east.
   B.   Matteson Street on Locust Street going west.
   C.   Myatt Drive on Swagosa Drive going east.
14.   Streets beginning with “N.”
   A.   North Clark Street on Locust Street going east.
   B.   North Eliza Street entering North Street.
   C.   North Fifth Street on Emma Court going east.
   D.   North Fifth Street on Short Street going east.
   E.   North Fifth Street on West Apple Street going west.
   F.   North Jones Avenue on German Street going west.
   G.   North Olive Street entering North Street.
   H.   North Street entering North Otto Street.
   I.   North Vermont Street on Emma Court going west.
   J.   North Walnut Street on East Apple Street going east.
15.   Streets beginning with “O.”
   A.   Okeeta Drive on Country Club Drive going south.
16.   Streets beginning with “P.”
   A.   Pershing Road on Butternut Street going north.
   B.   Pershing Road on North Otto Street going north.
   C.   Pershing Road on North Walnut Street going north.
17.   Streets beginning with “Q.”
18.   Streets beginning with “R.”
19.   Streets beginning with “S.”
   A.   South Second Street on West Judson Street going east.
   B.   South Fifth Street on Circle Drive going west.
   C.   South Fifth Street on West Judson Street going west.
   D.   South Fourth Street on West Judson Street going east or west.
   E.   South Jones Avenue on Thomas Avenue going east at both intersections of
Jones Avenue and Thomas Avenue.
   F.   South Matteson Street on East Judson Street going east.
   G.   South Matteson Street on East Judson Street going west.
   H.   South Niagara Street on West Jefferson Street going east.
   I.   South Niagara Street on West Jefferson Street going west.
   J.   South Niagara Street on West Judson Street going east.
   K.   South Niagara Street on West Judson Street going west.
   L.   South Prospect Street on West Pleasant Street going west.
   M.   South Vermont Street on Erie Street going east.
   N.   Swagosa Drive on Country Club Drive going south.
20.   Streets beginning with “T.”
21.   Streets beginning with “U.”
22.   Streets beginning with “V.”
23.   Streets beginning with “W.”
   A.   West Grove Street on North Decker Street going north.
   B.   West Grove Street on North Second Street going north.
   C.   West Jefferson Street on South Fourth Street going north.
   D.   West Jefferson Street on South Fourth Street going south.
   E.   West Locust Street on South Fifth Street going north.
   F.   West Locust Street on South Fifth Street going south.
   G.   West Monroe Street on South Niagara Street going south.
   H.   West Quarry Street on North Prospect Street going south.
   I.   West Summit Street on South Fourth Street going south.
   J.   West Summit Street on South Prospect Street going south.
24.   Streets beginning with “X.”
25.   Streets beginning with “Y.”
26.   Streets beginning with “Z.”
65.05 SCHOOL STOPS.
At the following school crossing zones every driver of a vehicle approaching
said zone shall bring the vehicle to a full stop at a point 10 feet from the
approach side of the crosswalk marked by an authorized school stop sign and
thereafter proceed in a careful and prudent manner until the vehicle shall have
passed through such school crossing zone.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.249)
- NONE-
65.06 STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK.
The driver of a vehicle emerging from a private roadway, alley, driveway, or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk
area and thereafter shall proceed into the sidewalk area only when able to do
so without danger to pedestrian traffic and shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicular traffic on the street into which the vehicle is entering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.353)
65.07 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC IS OBSTRUCTED.
Notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed, no driver
shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient
space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the
vehicle.
65.08 YIELD TO PEDESTRIANS IN CROSSWALKS.
Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver of a
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need be, to
so yield to a pedestrian or a person riding a bicycle crossing the roadway
within any marked crosswalk or within any unmarked crosswalk at an
intersection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.327)
(Section 65.08 – Ord._1229 – Oct. 24 Supp.)
65.09 OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROLS.
Every driver shall observe and comply with the directions provided by official
traffic control signals at the following intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
1.   Intersection of Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) and Main Street.
2.   Intersection of 200 th Avenue and Carlisle Street.
3.   Intersection of West Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) and Creslane Drive.
4.   Intersection of West Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) and Western Avenue.
5.   Intersection of West Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) and McKinsey Avenue.
6.   Intersection of West Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) and Niagara Street.
7.   Intersection of West Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) and Vermont Street.
8.   Intersection of West Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) and Westgate Drive.
CHAPTER 66
LOAD AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
 
66.01 Temporary Embargo                  66.03 Load Limits Upon Certain Streets
66.02 Permits for Excess Size and Weight 66.04 Load Limits on Bridges
 
66.01 TEMPORARY EMBARGO.
If the Council declares an embargo when it appears by reason of deterioration,
rain, snow or other climatic conditions that certain streets will be seriously
damaged or destroyed by vehicles weighing in excess of an amount specified by
the signs, no such vehicles shall be operated on streets so designated by such
signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471 and 472)
66.02 PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT.
The City Manager may, upon application and good cause being shown, issue a
special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move a
vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight or load exceeding the
maximum specified by State law or the City over those streets or bridges named
in the permit which are under the jurisdiction of the City and for which the
City is responsible for maintenance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 321E.2)
66.03 LOAD LIMITS UPON CERTAIN STREETS.
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified on such signs at
any time upon any of the following streets or parts of streets:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 475)
1.   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of six tons at any time upon any street
that is not named as part of the truck route set forth in Subsection 2.
2.   Every motor vehicle weighing six tons or more, when loaded or empty,
having no fixed terminal within the City or making nonscheduled or definite
stops within the City for the purpose of loading or unloading shall travel over
or upon the following streets within the City and none other:
   A.   Pershing Street from North Main Street to U.S. Highway 62.
   B.   Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) from the west City limits to the east
City limits.
   C.   East Summit Street from South Main Street to the intersection with
Jacobsen Drive.
   D.   Jacobsen Drive from East Summit Street to Platt Street (U.S. Highway
64).
   E.   East Maple Street from Jacobsen Drive to South Clark Street.
   F.   South Clark Street from East Maple Street to Platt Street (U.S. Highway
64).
   G.   North Dearborn Street from Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) to East
Quarry Street.
   H.   Main Street from the south City limits to the north City limits.
   I.   McKinsey Drive from West Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) to German
Street.
3.   Any motor vehicle weighing six tons or more, when loaded or empty, having
a fixed terminal, making a scheduled or definite stop within the City for the
purpose of loading or unloading shall proceed over or upon designated routes
set out in Subsection 2 to the nearest point of its scheduled or definite stop
and shall proceed thereto, load or unload and return, by the most direct route
to its point of departure from said designated route.
4.   It shall be a violation of this section for the owner or operator or
lessor of any vehicle to operate or require or knowingly permit the operation
of such vehicle upon a street in any manner contrary to this section.
5.   Section
66.03 shall not apply to anyone who operates a vehicle enroute to and from
their place of residence or business.
66.04 LOAD LIMITS ON BRIDGES.
No person shall operate any vehicle with a gross vehicle weight in excess of 10
tons at any time upon the City-County Bridge over the Maquoketa River.
CHAPTER 67
PEDESTRIANS
 
67.01 Walking in Street 67.03 Pedestrian Crossing
67.02 Hitchhiking
 
67.01 WALKING IN STREET.
Pedestrians shall at all times when walking on or along a street, walk on the
left side of the street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.326)
67.02 HITCHHIKING.
No person shall stand in the traveled portion of a street for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the driver of any private vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.331)
67.03 PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.328)
CHAPTER 68
ONE-WAY TRAFFIC
68.01 ONE-WAY TRAFFIC REQUIRED.
Upon the following streets and alleys, vehicular traffic, other than permitted
cross traffic, shall move only in the indicated direction when appropriate
signs are in place.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[4])
1.   James Street shall be east bound only from Second Street to Main Street.
2.   Block 3 that portion of Shaw’s Alley, as shown on the plat recorded in
Book P, Page 423, Office of County Recorder, shall be north bound only from
Pleasant Street to Truax’s Alley.
3.   Block 18, that portion of the south 300 feet of the alley between Main
Street and Olive Street shall be south bound only from East Platt Street (U.S.
Highway 64) to East Quarry Street
4.   South 230 feet of the alley between Olive Street and Eliza Street shall be
north bound only from East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) to East Pleasant
Street.
CHAPTER 69
PARKING REGULATIONS
69.01 Park Adjacent to Curb             69.12 Snow Routes
69.02 Parking on One-Way Streets        69.13 Fire Lanes
69.03 Angle Parking                     69.14 Controlled Access Facilities
69.04 Manner of Angle Parking           69.15 Snow Removal Emergency
69.05 Parking for Certain Purposes      69.16 Snow Route Designated
Illegal
69.06 Parking Prohibited                69.17 Restricted Zones - Streets
69.07 Persons with Disabilities Parking 69.18 Restricted Zones - Parking Lots
69.08 No Parking Zones                  69.19 Restricted Parking for Farmers
                                        Market
69.09 Truck, Boat, and Trailer Parking  69.20 Restricted Parking for Library
69.10 Parking Limited                   69.21 Recreational Vehicle Parking
69.11 Snow Removal
 
69.01 PARK ADJACENT TO CURB.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with
the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and
with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in the case of angle parking and
vehicles parked on the left-hand side of one-way streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.02 PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle on the left-hand side of a one-way
street other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction
of lawful traffic movement and with the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within
18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in
the case of angle parking.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.03 ANGLE PARKING.
Angle or diagonal parking is permitted only in the following locations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
1.   James Street, on both sides from North Main Street to North Second Street
2.   North Decker Street on both sides in the 100 block.
69.04 MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
Upon those streets or portions of streets that have been signed or marked for
angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at an angle
to the curb or edge of the roadway or in the center of the roadway as indicated
by such signs and markings. No part of any vehicle or the load thereon, when
said vehicle is parked within a diagonal parking district, shall extend into
the roadway more than a distance of 16 feet when measured at right angles to
the adjacent curb or edge of roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.05 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES ILLEGAL.
No person shall park a vehicle upon public property for more than 48 hours,
unless otherwise limited under the provisions of this chapter, or for any of
the following principal purposes:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
1.   Sale. Displaying such vehicle for sale.
2.   Repairing. For lubricating, repairing or for commercial washing of such
vehicle except such repairs as are necessitated by an emergency.
3.   Advertising. Displaying advertising.
4.   Merchandise Sales. Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a duly
established market place or when so authorized or licensed under this Code of
Ordinances.
69.06 PARKING PROHIBITED.
No one shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
1.   Crosswalk. On a crosswalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[5])
2.   Center Parkway. On the center parkway or dividing area of any divided
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
3.   Mailboxes. Within 20 feet on either side of a mailbox that is so placed
and so equipped as to permit the depositing of mail from vehicles on the
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
4.   Sidewalks. On or across a sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[1])
5.   Driveway. In front of a public or private driveway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[2])
6.   Intersection. Within an intersection or within 15 feet of the corner of
any street or alley.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[3])
7.   Fire Hydrant. Within 15 of a fire hydrant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[4])
8.   Stop Sign or Signal. Within 15 feet upon the approach to any flashing
beacon, stop or yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[6])
9.   Railroad Crossing. Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing, except when parked parallel with such rail and not exhibiting a red
light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[8])
10.   Fire Station. Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of said entrance when properly sign posted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[9])
11.   Excavations. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction
when such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[10])
12.   Double Parking. On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at
the edge or curb of a street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[11])
13.   Hazardous Locations. When, because of restricted visibility or when
standing or parked vehicles would constitute a hazard to moving traffic, or
when other traffic conditions require, the Council may cause curbs to be
painted with a yellow color and erect no parking or standing signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[13])
14.   Churches, Nursing Homes, and Other Buildings. A space of 50 feet is
hereby reserved at the side of the street in front of any theatre, auditorium,
hotel having more than 25 sleeping rooms, hospital, nursing home, taxicab
stand, bus depot, church, or other building where large assemblages of people
are being held, within which space, when clearly marked as such, no motor
vehicle shall be left standing, parked or stopped except in taking on or
discharging passengers or freight, and then only for such length of time as is
necessary for such purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.360)
15.   Alleys. No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner
or under such conditions as to leave available less than 10 feet of the width
of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall
stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block
the driveway entrance to any abutting property. The provisions of this
subsection do not apply to a vehicle parked in any alley that is 18 feet wide
or less, provided that said vehicle is parked to deliver goods or services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
16.   Ramps. In front of a curb cut or ramp which is located on public or
private property in a manner which blocks access to the curb cut or ramp.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[15])
17.   Area Between Lot Line and Curb Line. That area of the public way not
covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and the curb line, where
curbing has been installed.
18.   In More Than One Space. In any designated parking space so that any part
of the vehicle occupies more than one such space or protrudes beyond the
markings designating such space.
69.07 PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.
The following regulations shall apply to the establishment and use of persons
with disabilities parking spaces:
1.   Establishment. Persons with disabilities parking spaces shall be
established and designated in accordance with Chapter 321L of the Code of Iowa
and Iowa Administrative Code, 661-18. No unauthorized person shall establish
any on-street persons with disabilities parking space without first obtaining
Council approval.
2.   Improper Use. The following uses of a persons with disabilities parking
space, located on either public or private property, constitute improper use of
a persons with disabilities parking permit, which is a violation of this Code
of Ordinances:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321L.4[2])
   A.   Use by an operator of a vehicle not displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit.
   B.   Use by an operator of a vehicle displaying a persons with disabilities
parking permit but not being used by a person issued a permit or being
transported in accordance with Section 321L.2[1b] of the Code of Iowa.
   C.   Use by a vehicle in violation of the rules adopted under Section 321L.8
of the Code of Iowa.
3.   Wheelchair Parking Cones. No person shall use or interfere with a
wheelchair parking cone in violation of the following:
   A.   A person issued a persons with disabilities parking permit must comply
with the requirements of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa when utilizing
a wheelchair parking cone.
   B.   A person shall not interfere with a wheelchair parking cone that is
properly placed under the provisions of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa.
69.08 NO PARKING ZONES.
No one shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any of the following specifically
designated no parking zones except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the direction of a peace officer or traffic
control signal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
1.   Numbered Streets.
   A.   Thirteenth Street, on the north and south side from 211 th Avenue east
to City limits.
   B.   Seventeenth Street, on the north and south side of from South Main
Street to 211 th Avenue.
   C.   211 th Avenue, on both sides from Seventeenth Street south to City
limits.
2.   Streets beginning with “A.”
   A.   Arcade Street, on the east side from West Platt Street (U.S. Highway
64) to West Grove Street.
3.   Streets beginning with “B.”
4.   Streets beginning with “C.”
   A.   Creslane Drive, on the east and west sides from West Platt Street (U.S.
Highway 64) to a point 75 feet north of the north right-of-way line on West
Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64).
   B.   Creslane Drive, on the east side from West Platt Street (U.S. Highway
64) to a point 640 feet north of the north right-of-way line on West Platt
Street (U.S. Highway 64).
5.   Streets beginning with “D.”
6.   Streets beginning with “E.”
   A.   East Judson Street, on the north side from South Clark Street west 97
feet.
   B.   East Maple Street, on the north side from South Eliza Street to a point
500 feet east of the east line of South Clark Street.
   C.   East Maple Street, on the north side from South Main Street to South
Olive Street.
   D.   East Summit Street, on the south side from South Main Street to South
Matteson Street.
   E.   East Summit Street, on the north side for a distance of 90 feet east of
the intersection of said street with South Main Street
   F.   Eddy Street, on the west side of Eddy Street 85 feet south from 8:00
a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday.
   G.   Eddy Street, on the north side 140 feet from South Jones Avenue running
east from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday.
   H.   Emma Court, on the south side from North Fifth Street to North Vermont
Street.
7.   Streets beginning with “F.”
8.   Streets beginning with “G.”
9.   Streets beginning with “H.”
10.   Streets beginning with “I.”
11.   Streets beginning with “J.”
   A.   Jacobsen Drive, on the east side from East Platt Street (U.S. Highway
64) south 350 feet.
   B.   Jacobsen Drive, on the west side from East Summit Street to East Maple
Street.
   C.   James Street, on the north side from North Second Street to North
Niagara Street.
12.   Streets beginning with “K.”
   A.   Kathey Drive, on the east and west side of the street running south
from to Burlingame Field.
   B.   Kathey Drive, on the north side from the southwest corner of Lot 46 of
the Meadowdale First Addition to the southeast corner of Lot 44 of Meadowdale
First Addition.
   C.   Kathey Drive, on the south side from northwest corner of Lot 214 of the
Meadowdale First Addition.
13.   Streets beginning with “L.”
14.   Streets beginning with “M.”
   A.   Myatt Drive, on the east and west side from West Summit Street south to
the City limits.
15.   Streets beginning with “N.”
   A.   North Niagara Street, on the west side from West Platt Street (U.S.
Highway 64) to a point 50 feet north of the north right-of-way line on West
Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64).
   B.   North Vermont Street, on the east side from West Platt Street (U.S.
Highway 64) to West Quarry Street.
16.   Streets beginning with “O.”
17.   Streets beginning with “P.”
18.   Streets beginning with “Q.”
19.   Streets beginning with “R.”
20.   Streets beginning with “S.”
   A.   South Clark Street, on the east side from East Maple Street to East
Pleasant Street.
   B.   South Clark Street, on the west side from East Maple Street to East
Locust Street.
   C.   South Otto Street on the west side of from East Platt Street (U.S.
Highway 64) to East Locust.
   D.   South Fifth Street, on the east side from West Pleasant Street to West
Locust Street.
   E.   South Main Street, on the either side from Summit Street to the south
corporate line of the City.
   F.   South Otto Street, on the west side from East Platt Street (U.S.
Highway 64) to East Pleasant Street. This code shall be in effect from 2:00
a.m. on the last Sunday in the month of April to 2:00 a.m. on the last Sunday
in the month of October.
   G.   South Otto Street, on the west side of from East Platt Street (U.S.
Highway 64) to East Locust Street.
   H.   South Vermont Street, on the east side from West Platt Street (U.S.
Highway 64) to West Summit Street.
   I.   South Vermont Street, on the either side from South Vermont Street from
West Summit Street to West Washington Street.
21.   Streets beginning with “T.”
22.   Streets beginning with “U.”
   A.   U.S. Highway 61 bypass, on either side from the intersection of the
north line of the City limits and U.S. Highway 61 bypass to the intersection of
the south line of the City limits and U.S. Highway Street bypass.
23.   Streets beginning with “V.”
24.   Streets beginning with “W.”
   A.   Wesley Street on the north side from Western Avenue west 66 Feet.
   B.   Wesley Street, on the south side from Western Avenue west 82 feet.
   C.   West Grove Street, on the north and south side from Decker Street to
North Fifth Street.
   D.   West Grove Street, on the north side from a point 130 feet east of
Beautiful Savior Lutheran Church driveway, west to a point on the east side of
the driveway of the Beautiful Savior Lutheran Church.
   E.   West Grove Street, on the south side from a point 200 feet west of the
visitor parking driveway of the County Public Hospital.
   F.   West Judson Street, on the north side between South Second Street. and
South Fifth Street.
   G.   West Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64), on either side west of Second
Street.
   H.   West Quarry Street, on the north side from North Second Street to North
Arcade Street. School bus vehicles that are boarding and delivering students to
Briggs Elementary School shall be exempt from this subsection.
   I.   West Summit Street, on the south side for a distance of 141 feet west
of the intersection of West Summit Street with South Main Street.
   J.   West Washington Street, on either side from South Vermont Street to 50
feet east of the exit of the High School Drive.
   K.   Western Avenue, on the east and west sides from West Platt Street (U.S.
Highway 64) to a point 267 feet south of the south right-of-way line on West
Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64).
   L.   Western Avenue, on the east side from the southwest corner of Lot 13 to
the southwest corner of Lot 21, Thomas Subdivision in the City.
   M.   Western Avenue, on the east side from Wesley Street north 96 feet.
   N.   Western Avenue, on the east side from Wesley Street south to 100 feet.
25.   Streets beginning with “X.”
26.   Streets beginning with “Y.”
27.   Streets beginning with “Z.”
69.09 TRUCK, BOAT, AND TRAILER PARKING.
It shall be unlawful to park a truck of over three-quarter ton, manufacturer’s
rated capacity, or to park any converted bus, truck-tractor, trailer or
semitrailer, or boat, on any street or public alley in the City; provided, that
this section does not apply to trucks, semitrailer, or trailer being used for
the purpose of delivering or collecting goods, wares, merchandise for longer
than is necessary for the expeditious delivery or collection thereof, and in no
event for a period of time to exceed three hours, nor does it apply to trucks,
semitrailers, or trailers being used in construction; and provided further,
that no trucks of three-quarter ton or less, manufacturer’s rated capacity,
carrying livestock shall park at any time on the following streets:
1.   Main Street from Maple Street to Quarry Street.
2.   Olive Street from East Pleasant Street to East Quarry Street.
3.   Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) from Second Street to Eliza Street.
4.   Pleasant Street from South Niagara Street to South Eliza Street.
5.   Pleasant Street from South Second Street to Olive Street.
69.10 PARKING LIMITED.
It shall hereafter be illegal for any person to park any vehicle on the
following streets.
1.   Monday through Friday between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.:
   A.   Main Street, from Maple Street to Quarry Street.
   B.   Olive Street, from East Maple Street to East Quarry Street.
   C.   Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64), from Second Street to Olive Street.
   D.   Pleasant Street, from South Second Street to South Olive Street.
   E.   Second Street, from West Maple Street to West Quarry Street.
   F.   West Maple Street, from South Second Street to South Main Street.
2.   Mondays through Fridays between the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
   A.   North side of West Summit Street between South Main Street and South
Second Street.
3.   For more than two hours:
   A.   Monday through Saturday between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
Maple Street on the south side from Otto Street to a point 300 feet east of the
east line of Clark Street on.
   B.   Monday through Friday between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on
the 100 block of East Quarry Street on the north and south sides.
   C.   South Clark Street on the west side from East Maple Street to East
Pleasant Street.
4.   For a period of time of more than 15 minutes
   A.   In front of 102 North Otto Street.
69.11 SNOW REMOVAL.
No person shall park, abandon or leave unattended any vehicle on any public
street, alley, or City-owned off-street parking area during snow removal
operations unless the snow has been removed or plowed from said street, alley
or parking area and the snow has ceased to fall.
(Code of Iowa, 321.236[1])
69.12 SNOW ROUTES.
The Council may designate certain streets in the City as snow routes. When
conditions of snow or ice exist on the traffic surface of a designated snow
route, it is unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to impede or block traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[12])
69.13 FIRE LANES.
No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in a fire lane as provided
herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236)
1.   Fire Lanes Established. The Fire Chief may designate fire lanes on any
private road or driveway where deemed necessary to assure access to property or
premises by authorized emergency vehicles.
2.   Signs and Markings. Wherever a fire lane has been designated, the Fire
Chief shall cause appropriate signs and markings to be placed identifying such
fire lanes and the parking prohibition established by this section.
3.   Exception. The provisions of this section do not apply to authorized
emergency vehicles.
69.14 CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES.
Parking restrictions on controlled access facilities are as specified in
Chapter 140 of this Code of Ordinances.
69.15 SNOW REMOVAL EMERGENCY.
A snow removal emergency shall be deemed to exist after an accumulation of
three inches or more of snow, or after declaration of a snow removal emergency
by a public radio announcement, and shall be deemed to continue for a period of
24 hours thereafter unless such period of time shall be shortened or extended
by declaration of the Director of Public Works or City Manager through a public
radio announcement.
1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended or
unoccupied any vehicle upon a designated snow route within the City, during the
existence of a snow removal emergency.
2.   On streets of the City, it shall be unlawful for any person to park or
leave unattended or unoccupied any vehicle in a parking place that has not been
cleared of snow.
3.   The parking restrictions in Subsections 1 and 2, shall be inapplicable to
vehicles parked upon a street within a City block in any designated snow route
that has been cleared of snow from curb to curb, for the entire length of the
block.
4.   Any vehicle parked or left unattended upon a designated snow route in
violation of this chapter may be towed or removed at its owner’s expense
through police authorization, and the owner of any vehicle parked or left
unattended in violation of this chapter shall be subject to fine for illegal
parking.
69.16 SNOW ROUTE DESIGNATED.
The following public streets within the City are hereby designated official
snow routes, and shall be so identified by signs conforming to State Department
of Transportation guidelines:
1.   East Maple Street from South Main Street to Jacobsen Drive.
2.   Ehlers Lane.
3.   Grove Street from North Arcade Street to North Walnut Street.
4.   Jacobsen Drive.
5.   Main Street from south City limits to Pershing Road.
6.   Matteson Street from East Apple Street to East Summit Street.
7.   Myatt Drive from City limits to West Summit Street.
8.   Niagara Street from West Grove Street to West Monroe Street.
9.   North Arcade from West Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) to West Grove
Street.
10.   Olive Street from East Quarry Street to East Pleasant Street.
11.   Pershing Road from Main Street to east corporate limits.
12.   Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) from west City limits to Jacobsen Drive.
13.   Pleasant Street from South Niagara Street to South Olive Street.
14.   Quarry Street from North Arcade Street to North Walnut Street.
15.   Second Street from West Quarry Street to West Pleasant Street.
16.   Summit Street from west City limits to Jacobsen Drive.
17.   Vermont Street from West Quarry Street to West Pleasant Street.
18.   North Walnut Street from East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) to Pershing
Road.
19.   West Washington Street from South Niagara Street to South Vermont Street.
20.   Wesley Street.
21.   Western Avenue from West Summit Street to West Platt Street (U.S. Highway
64).
69.17 RESTRICTED ZONES - STREETS.
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in a parking space for more than two
consecutive hours between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. except on
Sundays, and the first day of January, the last Monday in May, the fourth day
of July, the first Monday in September, the fourth Thursday in November, and
the 25 th day of December, in the following areas:
1.   East Pleasant Street, on the south side in the 200 Block along the north
boundary line of Lot 1 of Block of the Original Town Addition.
2.   East Quarry Street, on the north and south side from North Main Street to
North Olive Street.
3.   James Street, on the south side from North Main Street to North Second
Street.
4.   Main Street, from Maple Street to Quarry Street.
5.   North Fifth Street from North Quarry Street to North Decker Street.
6.   Olive Street from East Pleasant Street to East Quarry Street.
7.   Olive Street, on the east side in the 200 Block from the north boundary
line of Lot 1 to the south boundary line of Lot 4 of Block 9 in the Original
Town Addition.
8.   Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64), from Olive Street to Second Street.
9.   Pleasant Street, from Olive Street to Second Street.
10.   Second Street, from James Street to West Pleasant Street.
69.18 RESTRICTED ZONES - PARKING LOTS.
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in a parking space for more than three
consecutive hours between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., except Sundays,
and the first day of January, the last Monday in May, the fourth day of July,
the first Monday in September, the fourth Thursday in November, and the 25 th
day of December, in the following areas:
1.   Parking Lot No. 4, between the public alley and South Olive Steet in the
block bounded by South Main Street, East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64), Olive
Street, and East Pleasant Street.
2.   Parking Lot No. 5, located in the center of the block bounded by West
Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64), North Second Street, James Street, and North
Main Street.
69.19 RESTRICTED PARKING FOR FARMERS MARKET.
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in the Ohnward Fine Arts Center
Parking Lot at 1215 East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64), on Tuesdays between
the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 6:30 p.m. during the period from May 14 th until
October 15 th each year. This shall not apply to any vehicle from which goods
are sold in the farmer’s market.
69.20 RESTRICTED PARKING FOR LIBRARY.
The City Manager is hereby authorized to designate parking spaces in the
Library parking lot and the southern portion of the City parking lot in the
middle of South Olive Street as reserved parking spaces. These spaces shall be
leased as reserved parking spaces for a monthly amount as set by resolution to
be paid in full in advance. Each space shall be numbered, and a database
including vehicle make, color, license number, and owner will be maintained by
the Clerk and shared with the Police Department. Vehicles not registered for
reserved parking will be ticketed. It shall hereafter be illegal to park any
vehicle in the Library lot, or the southern portion of the lot in the middle of
South Olive Street without first leasing such parking space.
69.21 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKING.
Recreational vehicles shall not be parked in residential zoning districts
except when in compliance with the following regulations. Any owner, lessee, or
bailer of a recreational vehicle may park one such vehicle or one such vessel
on a single lot in a residential district, subject to the following:
1.   Such recreational vehicle or vessel shall be maintained in a clean, well-
kept state so as not to detract from the appearance of the surrounding area.
2.   If such recreational vehicle or vessel is equipped with liquefied gas
containers, such containers shall meet the standards of either the Interstate
Commerce Commission, the Federal Department of Transportation, or the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers. Further, the valves of such liquefied
petroleum gas containers must be closed when the vehicle or vessel is not being
readied for immediate use, and in the event that leakage is detected from such
liquefied petroleum gas containers, immediate corrective action must be taken.
3.   At no time shall such parked recreational vehicle or vessel be occupied or
used for living, sleeping, or housekeeping purposes except as provided in
Subsection 4.
4.   It shall be lawful for only non-paying guests at a residence in a
residential district to occupy one recreational vehicle or vessel, parked
subject to the provisions of this Code, for sleeping purposes only for a period
not exceeding 72 consecutive hours. The total number of days during which a
recreational vehicle or vessel may be occupied under this subsection shall not
exceed 14 in any calendar year.
5.   Such recreational vehicle or vessel may be parked in the following manner:
   A.   Inside any enclosed structure which structure otherwise conforms to the
zoning requirement of that particular location.
   B.   Outside in the side yard or in the rear yard, and shall not be nearer
than two feet to any side or rear lot lines.
6.   Parking of recreational vehicles or vessels is permitted in front driveway
or an area adjacent to the driveway, provided:
   A.   Space is not available in the side yard, or there is no reasonable
access to either the side or rear yard. A lot shall be deemed to have
reasonable access to the rear yard if terrain permits and access can be had
without substantial damage to existing large trees or landscaping. A corner lot
shall normally be deemed to have reasonable access to the rear yard.
   B.   Inside parking is not possible.
   C.   The recreational vehicle or vessel may not extend over the public
sidewalk or publicly owned right-of-way.
7.   The City Manager or Police Chief may issue a permit for parking on any
City street or alley for a period not to exceed 72 hours.
8.   The City Manager or Police Chief may issue a permit for parking more than
one recreational vehicle or vessel on a single lot in a residential district.
9.   The owner of a recreational vehicle or vessel parked on a single lot in a
residential district shall also be the owner or the renter of such residential
lot.
CHAPTER 70
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
 
70.01 Arrest or Citation            70.04 Parking Violations: Vehicle
                                    Unattended
70.02 Scheduled Violations          70.05 Presumption in Reference to Illegal
                                    Parking
70.03 Parking Violations: Alternate 70.06 Impounding Vehicles
 
70.01 ARREST OR CITATION.
Whenever a peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provision of the Traffic Code, such officer may:
1.   Immediate Arrest. Immediately arrest such person and take such person
before a local magistrate; or
2.   Issue Citation. Without arresting the person, prepare in quintuplicate a
combined traffic citation and complaint as adopted by the Iowa Commissioner of
Public Safety, or issue a uniform citation and complaint utilizing a State-
approved computerized device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.6 and 321.485)
70.02 SCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.
For violations of the Traffic Code that are designated by Section 805.8A of the
Code of Iowa to be scheduled violations, the scheduled fine for each of those
violations shall be as specified in Section 805.8A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.8 and 805.8A)
70.03 PARKING VIOLATIONS: ALTERNATE.
Uncontested violations of parking restrictions imposed by this Code of
Ordinances shall be charged upon a simple notice of a fine payable at the
Maquoketa Police Department. The fine for each violation charged under a simple
notice of a fine shall be in the amount of $7.50 for all violations except snow
route parking violations and improper use of a person with disabilities parking
permit. If such fine is not paid within 30 days, it shall be increased by
$5.00. The fine for snow route parking violations is $50 and the fine for
improper use of a persons with disabilities parking permit is $100.00.
(Ord. 1218 – May 24 Supp.)
70.04 PARKING VIOLATIONS: VEHICLE UNATTENDED.
When a vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the Traffic Code, and
the driver is not present, the notice of fine or citation as herein provided
shall be attached to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
70.05 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
In any proceeding charging a standing or parking violation, a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred shall be raised by proof that:
1.   Described Vehicle. The particular vehicle described in the information was
parked in violation of the Traffic Code; and
2.   Registered Owner. The defendant named in the information was the
registered owner at the time in question.
70.06 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
1.   A peace officer is hereby authorized to remove, or cause to be removed, a
vehicle from a street, public alley, public parking lot, or highway to the
nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the City, under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
   A.   Disabled Vehicle. When a vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   B.   Illegally Parked Vehicle. When any vehicle is left unattended and is so
illegally parked as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   C.   Snow Removal. When any vehicle is left parked in violation of a ban on
parking during snow removal operations.
   D.   Parked Over Limited Time Period. When any vehicle is left parked for a
continuous period in violation of any limited parking time. If the owner can be
located, the owner shall be given an opportunity to remove the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
2.   Costs. In addition to the standard penalties provided, the owner or driver
of any vehicle impounded for the violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be required to pay the reasonable cost of towing and storage.
CHAPTER 71
ADMINISTRATIVE TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT
 
71.01 General              71.05  Penalty and Payment
71.02 Definitions          71.06  Contesting an Administrative Traffic Citation
71.03 Offenses             71.07  Exceptions to Owner Liability
71.04  Notice of Violation 71.08 Other Remedies
 
71.01   GENERAL.  
The purpose of this chapter is to reduce costs incurred by the City to enforce
posted speed regulations and regulations regarding seat belt use, stop signs,
and vehicle registration. Violations may be personally observed by a City
police officer.
71.02   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined as used in this section:
1.   “Administrative Traffic Citation” means a notice of fine generated in
connection with the City’s Administrative Traffic Enforcement.
2.   “Vehicle Owner” means the person or entity identified by the Iowa
Department of Transportation or registered with any other state vehicle
registration office, as the registered owner of the vehicle.
71.03   OFFENSES.
1.   The driver of a vehicle shall be liable for a fine imposed under Section
71.05 if such vehicle travels at a speed above the posted speed limit.
2.   The driver of a vehicle shall be liable for a fine imposed under Section
71.05 if the driver and/or an occupant of the vehicle does not wear a properly
adjusted and fastened safety belt or safety harness while the vehicle is in
forward motion on a street or highway.
3.   The driver of a vehicle shall be liable for a fine imposed under Section
71.05 if the driver of the vehicle fails to stop at an intersection indicated
by a stop sign or yield sign, as required under Section
61.05 and/or
Chapter 65.
4.   The owner of the vehicle shall be liable for a fine imposed under Section
71.05 if such vehicle fails to display current vehicle registration information
affixed to the license plate of the vehicle, as required under Section
62.01(1).
5.   The citation will in no event be sent or reported to the Iowa Department
of Transportation or similar department of any other State for the purpose of
being added to the vehicle owner’s driving record.
6.   The driver or permit holder of a golf cart shall be liable for a fine
imposed under Section
71.05 for any violation under
Chapter 78.   
(Subsection 6 – Ord. 1240 – Nov. 24 Supp.)
71.04   NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
Notice of the violation shall be made by the issuance of an Administrative
Traffic Citation by a police officer at the time of the violation. The notice
shall include the name and address of the vehicle owner; the vehicle make, if
available and readily discernable, and registration number; the violation
charged; the time, the date, and location of the alleged violation; the
applicable fine; information as to the availability of an appeal in which the
notice may be contested on its merits; and that the basis of the hearing in
which the notice may be contested on its merits.
71.05   PENALTY AND PAYMENT.
1.   Any violation of Section
71.03(1) shall be considered a violation for which a civil fine as listed in
the table below shall be imposed, payable to the City at the Maquoketa Police
Department. Payment shall be made within 30 days of the date of the
Administrative Traffic Citation. If not paid after 30 days the fine increases
to $90.00.
 
Speed over Limit (mph) Civil Fine
1-5                    $60.00
6 or Greater           $60.00
2.   Any violation of Sections
71.03(2), (3), or (4) shall be considered a violation for which a civil fine of
$60.00 shall be imposed, payable to the City at the Maquoketa Police
Department. Payment shall be made within 30 days of the date of the
Administrative Traffic Citation. If not paid after 30 days the fine increases
to $90.00.
71.06   CONTESTING AN ADMINISTRATIVE TRAFFIC CITATION.
1.   Appeal. By submitting in a form specified by the City, a request that in
lieu of the Administrative Traffic Citation, a municipal infraction be issued
and filed with the State district court in the County. Such a request must be
filed within 30 days from the date of the Administrative Traffic Citation. Such
a request will result in a court order requiring the vehicle owner to file an
answer and appearance with the Clerk of Court, as well as setting the matter
for trial before a judge. If the court finds the vehicle owner guilty of the
municipal infraction, State mandated court costs and fees, if applicable, will
be added to the amount of the fine imposed by this section.
2.   Failure to Timely Pay or Appeal. If the recipient of an Administrative
Traffic Citation does not either pay the fine by the due date stated in the
citation or appeal the citation provided herein, a municipal infraction may be
filed by the City Police Department, in accordance with the City’s ordinances.
The civil penalties for the violation shall be as set forth in Section
71.05(1). If the court finds the vehicle owner guilty of the municipal
infraction, State mandated court costs and fees, if applicable, will be added
to the amount of the fine imposed by this section. Further, failure to pay or
contest liability within the required time frame set forth above shall be
considered an admission of liability and waiver of the right to an appeal
hearing. As an alternative to filing a municipal infraction, the City may use
alternative collection methods to collect unpaid administrative traffic
citations, as permitted by law.
71.07   EXCEPTIONS TO OWNER LIABILITY.  
There shall be no liability pursuant to this chapter if:
1.   The operator of the vehicle in question was issued a Uniform Traffic
Citation for the violation in question pursuant to applicable City or State
laws.
2.   The violation occurred at any time after the vehicle in question or its
State registration plates were reported to a law enforcement agency as having
been stolen, provided, however, the vehicle or its plates had not been
recovered by the vehicle owner at the time of the alleged violation; or
3.   The vehicle in question was an authorized emergency vehicle.
71.08   OTHER REMEDIES.
No provision of this chapter shall be construed to impair, limit, or restrict
any application of any other chapter of the Maquoketa Code of Ordinances or any
other statutory, legal, or common law remedies governing the same or similar
provisions herein.
CHAPTER 75
ATVS, UTVS, AND SNOWMOBILES
 
75.01 Purpose                    75.06 Negligence
75.02 Definitions                75.07 Accident Reports
75.03 General Regulations        75.08 Hours of Operation
75.04 Operation of Snowmobiles   75.09 Dead Man Throttle
75.05 Operation of ATVs and UTVs 75.10 Penalty for Violations
 
75.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of all-terrain
vehicles, off-road utility vehicles, and snowmobiles within the City.
75.02 DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “All-terrain vehicle” or “ATV” means a motorized vehicle, with not less
than three and not more than six non-highway tires, that is limited in engine
displacement to less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to
less than 1,200 pounds and that has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled
by the operator and handlebars for steering control.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
2.   “Off-road motorcycle” means a two-wheeled motor vehicle that has a seat or
saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering
control and that is intended by the manufacturer for use on natural terrain.
“Off-road motorcycle” includes a motorcycle that was originally issued a
certificate of title and registered for highway use under Chapter 321 of the
Code of Iowa, but which contains design features that enable operation over
natural terrain. An operator of an off-road motorcycle is also subject to the
provisions of this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
3.   “Off-road utility vehicle” or “UTV” means a motorized vehicle, with not
less than four and not more than eight non-highway tires or rubberized tracks,
that has a seat that is of bucket or bench design, not intended to be straddled
by the operator, and a steering wheel or control levers for control. “Off-road
utility vehicle” or “UTV” includes the following vehicles:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   A.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 1” includes vehicles with a total dry
weight of 1,200 pounds or less and a width of 50 inches or less.
   B.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 2” includes vehicles, other than Type
1 vehicles, with a total dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less and a width of 65
inches or less.
   C.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 3” includes vehicles with a total dry
weight of more than 2,000 pounds or a width of more than 65 inches, or both.
   An operator of an UTV is also subject to the provisions of this chapter
governing the operation of ATVs.
4.   “Snowmobile” means a motorized vehicle that weighs less than 1,000 pounds,
that uses sled-type runners or skis, endless belt-type tread with a width of 48
inches or less, or any combination of runners, skis, or tread, and is designed
for travel on snow or ice. “Snowmobile” does not include an all-terrain vehicle
that has been altered or equipped with runners, skis, belt-type tracks, or
treads.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.1)
75.03 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
No person shall operate an ATV, off-road motorcycle, or off-road utility
vehicle within the City in violation of Chapter 321I of the Code of Iowa or a
snowmobile within the City in violation of the provisions of Chapter 321G of
the Code of Iowa or in violation of rules established by the Natural Resource
Commission of the Department of Natural Resources governing their registration,
equipment and manner of operation.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 321G and Ch. 321I)
75.04 OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES.
The operators of snowmobiles shall comply with the following restrictions as to
where snowmobiles may be operated within the City:
1.   Streets. Snowmobiles shall be operated only upon streets that have not
been plowed during the snow season and on such other streets as may be
designated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4a])
2.   Exceptions. Snowmobiles may be operated on prohibited streets only under
the following circumstances:
   A.   Emergencies. Snowmobiles may be operated on any street in an emergency
during the period of time when and at locations where snow upon the roadway
renders travel by conventional motor vehicles impractical.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4c])
   B.   Direct Crossing. Snowmobiles may make a direct crossing of a prohibited
street provided all of the following occur:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
      (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
street;
      (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all on-coming traffic that
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
      (4)   In crossing a divided street, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such street with another street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[2])
3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on an operating
railroad right-of-way. A snowmobile may be driven directly across a railroad
right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any other
provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.13[1h])
4.   Trails. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on all-terrain vehicle trails
except where so designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4f])
5.   Parks and Other City Land. Snowmobiles shall not be operated in any park,
playground, or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City. A snowmobile shall not be operated on any City land
without a snow cover of at least one-tenth of one inch.
6.   Sidewalk or Parking. Snowmobiles shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking” except for
purposes of crossing the same to a public street upon which operation is
authorized by this chapter.
75.05 OPERATION OF ATVS AND UTVS.
The operators of ATVs and UTVs shall comply with the following restrictions as
to where ATVs and UTVs may be operated within the City:
1.   Streets. ATVs and UTVs may be operated on roadways or highways in
accordance with Section 321.234A of the Code of Iowa. A City may regulate the
operation of registered ATVs and UTVs and may designate streets under the
jurisdiction of the City within its corporate limits, and two-lane primary and
secondary road extensions in the City, which may be used for the operation of
such vehicles. In designating such streets, the City may authorize ATVs and
UTVs to stop at service stations or convenience stores along a designated
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[1 and 3])
(Subsection 1 – Ord. 1217 – May 24 Supp.)
2.   Construction Zones. ATVs and UTVs may not be operated in construction
zones, including the right-of-way and ditches of such construction zones. ATVs
and UTVs also may not be operated on streets or alleyways that are temporarily
closed, including the right-of-way and ditches of such temporarily closed
roads.
3.   Trails. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated on snowmobile trails except
where designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[4])
4.   Railroad Right-of-Way. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated on an operating
railroad right-of-way. An ATV or UTV may be driven directly across a railroad
right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any other
provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.14[1h])
5.   Parks and Other City Land. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated in any
park, playground, or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City.
6.   Sidewalk or Parking. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking.”
7.   Direct Crossing. An ATV or UTV may make a direct crossing of a highway
that is not part of the interstate road system provided all of the following
occur:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[5])
   A.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing.
   B.   The ATV or UTV is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the highway.
   C.   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard.
   D.   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another public street or highway.
   E.   The crossing is made from a street, roadway, or highway on which the
ATV or UTV is authorized to operate to a street, roadway, or highway on which
such vehicle is authorized to operate.
75.06 NEGLIGENCE.
The owner and operator of an ATV, UTV, or snowmobile are liable for any injury
or damage occasioned by the negligent operation of the ATV, UTV, or snowmobile.
The owner of an ATV, UTV, or snowmobile shall be liable for any such injury or
damage only if the owner was the operator of the ATV, UTV, or snowmobile at the
time the injury or damage occurred or if the operator had the owner’s consent
to operate the ATV, UTV, or snowmobile at the time the injury or damage
occurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.18 and 321I.19)
75.07 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
Whenever an ATV, UTV, or snowmobile is involved in an accident resulting in
injury or death to anyone or property damage amounting to $1,500.00 or more,
either the operator or someone acting for the operator shall immediately notify
a law enforcement officer and shall file an accident report, in accordance with
State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.10 and 321I.11)
75.08 HOURS OF OPERATION.  
No ATV, UTV, or snowmobile shall be operated in the City between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m. except for emergency situations or for loading and
unloading from a transport trailer.
75.09 DEAD MAN THROTTLE.
No snowmobile shall be operated within the City unless equipped with a “dead
man throttle” which, when pressure is removed from the accelerator or throttle,
causes the engine to be disengaged from the drive mechanism.
75.10 PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS.
Persons who violate or who participate in a violation by commanding or
persuading another to violate the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine as set forth in
Chapter 3 of this code. An employer or an employer’s agents who order an
employee to violate this chapter or who knowingly permits an employer of person
supervise to violate this chapter shall be guilty of a violations of this
chapter and subject to the penalties set forth in
Chapter 3 of this Code.
CHAPTER 76
BICYCLE REGULATIONS
76.01 Definitions                     76.09 Riding on Sidewalks
76.02 Scope of Regulations            76.10 Towing
76.03 Traffic Code Applies            76.11 Improper Riding
76.04 Double Riding Restricted        76.12 Parking
76.05 Two Abreast Limit               76.13 Equipment Requirements
76.06 Speed                           76.14 Special Penalty
76.07 Emerging From Alley or Driveway 76.15 Impoundment of Bicycles
76.08 Carrying Articles
 
76.01 DEFINITIONS.
The following words and phrases whenever used in the ordinances of the City,
shall be construed as defined in this section unless, from the context, a
different meaning is intended or unless different meaning is specifically
defined and more particularly directed to the use of such words or phrases:
1.   “Bicycles” means either of the following:
   A.   A device having two wheels and having at least one saddle or seat for
the use of a rider which is propelled by human power.
   B.   A device having two or more wheels with fully operable pedals and an
electric motor less than 750 watts (one horsepower), whose maximum speed on a
paved level surface, when powered solely by such a motor while ridden, is less
than 20 mph.
76.02 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
These regulations shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street or
upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to
those exceptions stated herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.03 TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by the laws of the State declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or
by the Traffic Code of the City applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except
as to those provisions that by their nature can have no application. Whenever
such person dismounts from a bicycle, the person shall be subject to all
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234)
76.04 DOUBLE RIDING RESTRICTED.
A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent and
regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons
at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234[3 and 4])
76.05 TWO ABREAST LIMIT.
Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles. All bicycles ridden on the roadway shall be kept to the right and
shall be operated as near as practicable to the right-hand edge of the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.06 SPEED.
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.07 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall,
upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk or
sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.08 CARRYING ARTICLES.
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article that
prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.09 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
The following provisions apply to riding bicycles on sidewalks:
1.   Business District. No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within
the Business District, as defined in Section
60.02(1) of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
2.   Other Locations. When signs are erected on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, no person shall
disobey the signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
3.   Yield Right-of-Way. Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.10 TOWING.
It is unlawful for any person riding a bicycle to be towed or to tow any other
vehicle upon the streets of the City unless the vehicle is manufactured for
such use.
76.11 IMPROPER RIDING.
No person shall ride a bicycle in an irregular or reckless manner such as
zigzagging, stunting, speeding, or otherwise so as to disregard the safety of
the operator or others.
76.12 PARKING.
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.13 EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
Every person riding a bicycle shall be responsible for providing and using
equipment as provided herein:
1.   Lamps Required. Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped
with a lamp on the front emitting a white light visible from a distance of at
least 300 feet to the front and with a lamp on the rear exhibiting a red light
visible from a distance of 300 feet to the rear, except that a red reflector on
the rear, of a type that is visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet
to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a
motor vehicle, may be used in lieu of a rear light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.397)
2.   Brakes Required. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake that will
enable the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean
pavement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.14 SPECIAL PENALTY.
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter may, in lieu of the
scheduled fine for bicyclists or standard penalty provided for violations of
this Code of Ordinances, allow the person’s bicycle to be impounded by the City
for not less than five days for the first offense, 10 days for a second
offense, and 30 days for a third offense.
76.15 IMPOUNDMENT OF BICYCLES.
The Police Department may impound any bicycle used in any violation of the
provisions of this chapter. No such impoundment shall exceed 30 days.
CHAPTER 77
BICYCLE LICENSING
 
77.01 License Required         77.03 Maintenance of License Records
77.02 License Plates or Decals
 
77.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
No person who resides within the City shall ride or propel a bicycle on any
street or upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles
unless such bicycle has been licensed and a license plate or decal is attached
thereto as provided herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
1.   License Application. Application for a bicycle license and license plate
or decal shall be made upon a form provided by the City and shall be made to
the Police Department. A license fee of $2.00 shall be paid to the City before
each license is granted.
2.   Issuance of License. The Police Department, upon receiving proper
application, is authorized to issue a bicycle license that shall be effective
immediately.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
3.   License Valid. One license issued. It does not expire.
77.02 LICENSE PLATES OR DECALS.
License plates or decals are required as follows:
1.   Issued. The Police Department, upon issuing a bicycle license, shall also
issue a license plate or decal bearing the license number assigned to the
bicycle and the name of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
2.   Attached to Bicycle. The citizen shall cause such license plate or decal
to be firmly attached to the bicycle for which issued in such position as to be
plainly seen from the rear.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
3.   Removal. No person shall remove a license plate or decal from a bicycle
during the period for which issued unless said bicycle is dismantled and no
longer operated upon any street in the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
77.03 MAINTENANCE OF LICENSE RECORDS.
The Police Department shall keep a record of the number of each license, the
date issued, the name and address of the person to whom issued, and the number
on the frame of the bicycle for which issued, and a record of all bicycle
license fees collected.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
CHAPTER 78
GOLF CART OPERATION
 
78.01 Purpose                       78.06 General Prohibitions and Prohibited
                                    Streets
78.02 Definitions                   78.07 Liability Insurance Requirements
78.03 Golf Cart Operation           78.08 Suspension of Privilege
78.04  Annual Inspection            78.09 Penalties
78.05 Operating A Golf Cart Without
Valid Permit
 
78.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to approve the operation of golf carts within
the City limits under certain limited circumstance, as authorized by Iowa Code
Section 321.247.
78.02   DEFINITIONS.
1.   Alcoholic beverage means any beverage containing more than one-half of one
percent of alcohol by volume including alcoholic liquor, wine, and beer.
2.   Golf cart means motorized flotation-tire vehicle equipped with four low-
pressure tires, is limited in engine displacement to less than 500 cubic
centimeters but a minimum of 200 cubic centimeters, or electric powered, and in
total dry weight of not more than 1000 pounds, with seats of a bench design not
intended to be straddled by the operator and a steering wheel for control.
3.   Roadway as defined by Iowa Code Section 321I.1 means that portion of a
highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, including
but not limited to City streets and alleyways.
78.03   GOLF CART OPERATION.
Golf carts may be operated on roadways within the City limits of the City of
Maquoketa consistent with and subject to the following regulations.
1.   Golf carts shall only be allowed to operate within the City limits from
sunrise to sunset if the following equipment is installed and operable on said
vehicle:
   A.   Adequate brakes.
   B.   Slow moving vehicle sign.
   C.   A bicycle safety flag mounted at a flag height of 5’ from the surface
of the roadway.
   D.   Head and rear tail lights.
(Paragraph D – Ord. 1239 – Nov. 24 Supp.)
2.   Persons shall not operate a golf cart on the City streets under the age of
18. In addition to fines and penalties that may be imposed against the
operator, the Golf Cart Permit holder shall be strictly liable for violations
of this section and subject to civil penalties under
Chapter 3, Municipal Infractions, of the City Code.
(Subsection 2 – Ord. 1239 – Nov. 24 Supp.)
78.04   ANNUAL INSPECTION.
Before any golf cart may be legally operated on the City streets as allowed
previously herein, the golf cart must pass an inspection to be performed by the
Maquoketa Police Department, said inspection to verify that the vehicle is
equipped as required herein. There shall be an inspection fee paid at the time
of the inspection to the Maquoketa Police Dpt. in the amount of $50.00. Upon
passing the inspection, a permit and registration decal will be issued by the
Police Department. The identification number shall be prominently displayed on
the rear of the golf cart located in the middle of a slow-moving vehicle sign
as directed by the Maquoketa Police Department. All registrations shall run
from July 1 through June 30. While registrations may occur at any point during
the year, all will expire on June 30th and registration fees will not be
prorated.
78.05   OPERATING A GOLF CART WITHOUT VALID PERMIT.
If a person is found to be operating a golf cart without a Police Department
issued permit or is operating a golf cart after having their privilege to do so
suspended under the terms of this chapter, they shall be subject to a civil
penalty in the amount of $300.00, and shall be prohibited from obtaining a
permit for a period of 12 month following the date of violation, or conviction,
if a hearing is requested and held, whichever is later.
78.06   GENERAL PROHIBITIONS AND PROHIBITED STREETS.
The following regulations shall apply to the operation of golf carts on
roadways within the City limits of Maquoketa:
1.   Golf carts shall not be operated upon any City street which is a primary
road extension through the City but shall be allowed to cross a City street
which is a primary road extension through the City. For the purpose of this
section, Platt Street, Main Street, and Highway 62 are identified as the
primary road extensions through the City and shall not be operated on. If the
registrant resides or visits a property on a primary road extension, the
registrant must exit the prohibited street on the nearest non-restricted
roadway. Golf carts shall not travel on any sidewalks or trails.
2.   Golf carts shall not be operated at a rate of speed not to exceed twenty-
five (25) miles per hour.
3.   Golf carts shall not be operated in a careless, reckless, or negligent
manner so as to:
   A.   Endanger any person;
   B.   Cause injury or damage to person or property; or,
   C.   Create unnecessary skidding or sliding or cause any wheel or wheels to
unnecessarily lose contact with the ground.
4.   It shall be prohibited to possess in any area of the permitted vehicle an
open or unsealed bottle, can, jar, or other receptacle containing an alcoholic
beverage.
5.   It shall be prohibited to operate a golf cart while impaired from an
intoxicating beverage and/or narcotic and/or habit-forming drug.
6.   It shall be prohibited to operate a golf cart with more persons in/on the
vehicle than it was designed to carry.
7.   It shall be prohibited to operate a golf cart without a valid driver’s
license.
8.   No person shall operate a golf cart in any area where signage clearly
prohibits golf cart operation.
9.   Golf cart operation as permitted herein shall all times be compliant with
all State and local traffic rules and regulations.
78.07   LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
At minimum, a policy with bodily injury at $250,000 per person, $250,000 per
incident and property damage of $250,000 or combined single limits (bodily
injury and property damage) or $500,000 or equivalent is required for the
operation of a golf cart or off-highway vehicle. Upon request the operator is
required to show proof of financial liability meeting the minimum requirements
listed above. A proof of financial liability coverage card may be produced in
paper or electronic format.
(Section 78.07 – Ord. 1239 – Nov. 24 Supp.)
78.08   SUSPENSION OF PRIVILEGE.
If, over the course of a twelve month period, an operator of a golf cart or
off-highway vehicle is cited for two or more violations of the provisions of
this chapter of the Maquoketa Code of Ordinances, including a violation of
Chapter 60-80 of the Maquoketa Code while operating a golf cart or off-highway
vehicle, their privilege to operate a permitted vehicle under the terms and
provisions of this chapter shall be suspended for a period of twelve (12)
months.
78.09   PENALTIES.
Violation of the ordinance shall constitute a simple misdemeanor punishable by
a fine of $100 to $750.00 plus the applicable court surcharge and costs and/or
up to 30 days in jail as set forth in Iowa Code Section 903.1(1)(a). Any
amendments to the simple misdemeanor penalties of Iowa Code Section 903.1(1)(a)
shall be automatically incorporated into this section without the need of
amending this ordinance.
(Chapter 78 – Ord. 1225 – Sep. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 79
SKATES, SKATEBOARDS, AND SCOOTERS
 
79.01 Definition                    79.05 Operating Skating Devices on Public
                                    Streets
79.02 Operating Skating Devices on  79.06 Observance of Traffic Rules
Sidewalks
79.03 Rights of Pedestrians         79.07 Impoundment of Skating Devices
79.04 Improper Operation of Skating
Devices Forbidden
 
79.01 DEFINITION.
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the use of skating devices which
include skateboards, roller skates, inline skates, or roller blades.
79.02 OPERATING SKATING DEVICES ON SIDEWALKS.
Skating devices may be operated upon the sidewalks in the residential district,
but not in the Business District, or upon any sidewalk adjoining any school
premises during regular school hours or any extracurricular school activities
hours.
79.03 RIGHTS OF PEDESTRIANS.
Pedestrians upon the sidewalks shall have the right-of-way at all times over
persons using skating devices upon the sidewalks not herein prohibited, and any
person using or operating a skating device upon any sidewalk shall stop and
remove the skating device from the sidewalk in order to give this right-of-way.
79.04 IMPROPER OPERATION OF SKATING DEVICES FORBIDDEN.
It shall be unlawful for any person operating a skating device to ride in any
irregular or reckless manner such as zigzagging, stunting, or otherwise riding
with a disregard for either the operator’s safety or the safety of others.
79.05 OPERATING SKATING DEVICES ON PUBLIC STREETS.
Skating devices may be operated on public streets in the residential district
but not in the Business District or upon North or South Main Streets, or West
Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) at any time.
79.06 OBSERVANCE OF TRAFFIC RULES.
All persons using or operating skating devices on any street or sidewalk within
the City shall observe all traffic rules, as to traffic lights and stop signs
and shall stop before entering a street from any sidewalk. All persons
operating a skating device on a public street shall operate as near the right
curb as possible at all times.
79.07 IMPOUNDMENT OF SKATING DEVICES.
The Police Department may impound any skating device used in violation of the
provisions of this chapter. No such impoundment shall exceed 30 days.
CHAPTER 80
ABANDONED VEHICLES
 
80.01 Definitions                       80.06 Disposal of Abandoned Vehicles
80.02 Authority to Take Possession of   80.07 Disposal of Totally Inoperable
Abandoned Vehicles                      Vehicles
80.03 Notice by Mail                    80.08 Proceeds from Sales
80.04 Reclamation of Abandoned Vehicles 80.09 Duties of Demolisher
80.05 Fees for Impoundment
 
80.01 DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[1] and Sec. 321.90)
1.   “Abandoned vehicle” means any of the following:
   A.   A vehicle that has been left unattended on public property for more
than 24 hours and lacks current registration plates or two or more wheels or
other parts which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
   B.   A vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for more than
24 hours.
   C.   A vehicle that has been unlawfully parked or placed on private property
without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property for more
than 24 hours.
   D.   A vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of a police
authority and has not been reclaimed for a period of 10 days. However, a police
authority may declare the vehicle abandoned within the 10-day period by
commencing the notification process.
   E.   Any vehicle parked on the highway determined by a police authority to
create a hazard to other vehicle traffic.
   F.   A vehicle that has been impounded pursuant to Section 321J.4B of the
Code of Iowa by order of the court and whose owner has not paid the impoundment
fees after notification by the person or agency responsible for carrying out
the impoundment order.
2.   “Demolisher” means a person licensed under Chapter 321H of the Code of
Iowa whose business it is to convert a vehicle to junk, processed scrap, or
scrap metal, or otherwise to wreck, or dismantle vehicles.
3.   “Garage keeper” means any operator of a parking place or establishment,
motor vehicle storage facility, or establishment for the servicing, repair, or
maintenance of motor vehicles.
4.   “Police authority” means the Iowa State Patrol or any law enforcement
agency of a county or city.
80.02 AUTHORITY TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
A police authority, upon the authority’s own initiative or upon the request of
any other authority having the duties of control of highways or traffic, shall
take into custody an abandoned vehicle on public property and may take into
custody any abandoned vehicle on private property. The police authority may
employ its own personnel, equipment, and facilities or hire a private entity,
equipment, and facilities for the purpose of removing, preserving, storing, or
disposing of abandoned vehicles. A property owner or other person in control of
private property may employ a private entity that is a garage keeper to dispose
of an abandoned vehicle, and the private entity may take into custody the
abandoned vehicle without a police authority’s initiative. If a police
authority employs a private entity to dispose of abandoned vehicles, the police
authority shall provide the private entity with the names and addresses of the
registered owners, all lienholders of record, and any other known claimant to
the vehicle or the personal property found in the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[2])
80.03 NOTICE BY MAIL.
1.   A police authority or private entity that takes into custody an abandoned
vehicle shall send notice by certified mail that the vehicle has been taken
into custody, no more than 20 days after taking custody of the vehicle. Notice
shall be sent to the last known address of record of the last known registered
owner of the vehicle, all lienholders of record, and any other known claimant
to the vehicle.
2.   Notice shall be deemed given when mailed. The notice shall include all of
the following:
   A.   A description of the year, make, model and vehicle identification
number of the vehicle.
   B.   The location of the facility where the vehicle is being held.
   C.   Information for the persons receiving the notice of their right to
reclaim the vehicle and personal property contained therein within 10 days
after the effective date of the notice. Persons may reclaim the vehicle or
personal property upon payment of all towing, preservation, and storage charges
resulting from placing the vehicle in custody and upon payment of the costs of
the notice required pursuant to this section.
   D.   A statement that failure of the owner, lienholders, or claimants to
exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
time provided shall be deemed a waiver by the owner, lienholders, and claimants
of all right, title, claim, and interest in the vehicle or personal property.
   E.   A statement that failure to reclaim the vehicle or personal property is
deemed consent for the police authority or private entity to sell the vehicle
at a public auction or dispose of the vehicle to a demolisher and to dispose of
the personal property by sale or destruction.
3.   If the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a private entity
without a police authority’s initiative, the notice shall state that the
private entity may claim a garage keeper’s lien as described in Section 321.90,
Subsection 1, of the Code of Iowa, and may proceed to sell or dispose of the
vehicle.
4.   If the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a police authority or
by a private entity hired by a police authority, the notice shall state that
any person claiming rightful possession of the vehicle or personal property who
disputes the planned disposition of the vehicle or property by the police
authority or private entity, or of the assessment of fees and charges provided
by this section, may ask for an evidentiary hearing before the police authority
to contest those matters.
5.   If the persons receiving notice do not ask for a hearing or exercise their
right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the 10-day reclaiming
period, the owner, lienholders, or claimants shall no longer have any right,
title, claim, or interest in or to the vehicle or the personal property.
6.   A court in any case in law or equity shall not recognize any right, title,
claim, or interest of the owner, lienholders, or claimants after the expiration
of the 10-day reclaiming period.
7.   If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identities
and addresses of the last registered owner and all lienholders, notice by one
publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the area where the
vehicle was abandoned shall be sufficient to meet all requirements of notice
under Subsection 2 of this section. The published notice may contain multiple
listings of abandoned vehicles, but shall be published within the same time
requirements and contain the same information as prescribed for mailed notice
in Subsection 2 of this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3])
80.04 RECLAMATION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
Prior to driving an abandoned vehicle away from the premises, a person who
received (or who is reclaiming the vehicle on behalf of a person who received)
notice under Section
80.03 shall present to the police authority or private entity, as applicable,
the person’s valid driver’s license and proof of financial liability coverage
as provided in Section 321.20B of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.05 FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
The owner, lienholder, or claimant shall pay all towing and storage fees as
established by the storage facility, whereupon the vehicle shall be released.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.06 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
If an abandoned vehicle has not been reclaimed as provided herein, the police
authority or private entity shall make a determination as to whether or not the
motor vehicle should be sold for use upon the highways, and shall dispose of
the motor vehicle in accordance with State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.07 DISPOSAL OF TOTALLY INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
The City or any person upon whose property or in whose possession is found any
abandoned motor vehicle, or any person being the owner of a motor vehicle whose
title certificate is faulty, lost, or destroyed, may dispose of such motor
vehicle to a demolisher for junk, without a title and without notification
procedures, if such motor vehicle lacks an engine or two or more wheels or
other structural part which renders the vehicle totally inoperable. The police
authority shall give the applicant a certificate of authority. The applicant
shall then apply to the County Treasurer for a junking certificate and shall
surrender the certificate of authority in lieu of the certificate of title.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[2e])
80.08 PROCEEDS FROM SALES.
Proceeds from the sale of any abandoned vehicle shall be applied to the expense
of auction, cost of towing, preserving, storing, and notification required, in
accordance with State law. Any balance shall be held for the owner of the motor
vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days, and then shall be deposited in the
State Road Use Tax Fund. Where the sale of any vehicle fails to realize the
amount necessary to meet costs the police authority shall apply for
reimbursement from the Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.09 DUTIES OF DEMOLISHER.
Any demolisher who purchases or otherwise acquires an abandoned motor vehicle
for junk shall junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or otherwise demolish such motor
vehicle. A demolisher shall not junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or demolish a
vehicle until the demolisher has obtained the junking certificate issued for
the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[3a])
CHAPTER 81
RAILROAD REGULATIONS
 
81.01 Definitions         81.03 Crossing Maintenance
81.02 Obstructing Streets
 
81.01 DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Operator” means any individual, partnership, corporation, or other
association that owns, operates, drives, or controls a railroad train.
2.   “Railroad train” means an engine or locomotive, with or without cars
coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)
81.02 OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
Operators shall not operate any train in such a manner as to prevent vehicular
use of any highway, street, or alley for a period of time in excess of 10
minutes except:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 327G.32)
1.   Comply with Signals. When necessary to comply with signals affecting the
safety of the movement of trains.
2.   Avoid Striking. When necessary to avoid striking any object or person on
the track.
3.   Disabled. When the train is disabled.
4.   Safety Regulations. When necessary to comply with governmental safety
regulations including, but not limited to, speed ordinances and speed
regulations.
5.   In Motion. When the train is in motion except while engaged in switching
operations.
6.   No Traffic. When there is no vehicular traffic waiting to use the
crossing.
An employee is not guilty of a violation of this section if the employee’s
action was necessary to comply with the direct order or instructions of a
railroad corporation or its supervisors. Guilt is then with the railroad
corporation.
81.03 CROSSING MAINTENANCE.
Operators shall construct and maintain good, sufficient, and safe crossings
over any street traversed by their rails.
(Bourett vs. Chicago and N.W. Ry. 152 Iowa 579, 132 N.W. 973 [1943])
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.11)
CHAPTER 90
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
90.01 Definitions                        90.12 Responsibility for Water Service
                                         Pipe
90.02 Superintendent’s Duties          90.13 Failure to Maintain
90.03 Mandatory Connections              90.14 Curb Valve
90.04 Abandoned Connections              90.15 Interior Valve
90.05 Permit                             90.16 Inspection and Approval
90.06 Fee for Permit                     90.17 Completion by the City
90.07 Compliance with Plumbing Code      90.18 Shutting Off Water Supply
90.08 Plumber Required                   90.19 Operation of Curb Valve and
                                         Hydrants
90.09 Excavations                        90.20 Fluoride Treatment
90.10 Tapping Mains                      90.21 Liability
90.11 Installation of Water Service Pipe 90.22 Interference Prohibited
 
90.01 DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in the chapters in this Code of
Ordinances pertaining to the Water Service System:
1.   “Combined service account” means a customer service account for the
provision of two or more utility services.
2.   “Customer” means, in addition to any person receiving water service from
the City, the owner of the property served, and as between such parties the
duties, responsibilities, liabilities, and obligations hereinafter imposed
shall be joint and several.
3.   “Superintendent” means the City Manager or any duly authorized assistant,
agent, or representative.
4.   “Water main” means a water supply pipe provided for public or community
use.
5.   “Water service pipe” means the pipe from the water main to the building
served.
6.   “Water system” or “water works” means all public facilities for securing,
collecting, storing, pumping, treating, and distributing water.
90.02 SUPERINTENDENT’S DUTIES.  
The Superintendent shall supervise the installation of water service pipes and
their connection to the water main and enforce all regulations pertaining to
water services in the City in accordance with this chapter. This chapter shall
apply to all replacements of existing water service pipes as well as to new
ones. The Superintendent shall make such rules, not in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter, as may be needed for the detailed operation of the
water system, subject to the approval of the Council. In the event of an
emergency the Superintendent may make temporary rules for the protection of the
system until due consideration by the Council may be had.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
90.03 MANDATORY CONNECTIONS.
The owners of any houses, buildings or structures used for human occupancy,
employment or use, situated within the City and abutting on any street, alley
or right-of-way in which there is located a public water main are hereby
required to connect such facilities to the City’s public water system in
accordance with the provisions of these Water Service chapters within 60 days
after the date of official notice to do so, provided that said public water
main is located within 100 feet of the property line of such owner.
90.04 ABANDONED CONNECTIONS.
When an existing water service is abandoned or a service is renewed with a new
tap in the main, all abandoned connections with the mains shall be capped at
the main using a corp cap or wrap. Whenever a structure has had previous water
and sewer service provided to it and that structure is permanently demolished,
the property owner shall be responsible for abandoning the water and service
lines to the permanently demolished structure at their respective mains rather
than terminating service lines at the curb or the curb stop. The property owner
shall also be responsible for any repairs to a public street or other public
infrastructure that are needed due to this work. If the property owner is
planning to re-use the water or sewer service on that property for a future
building, abandonment of the water and sewer line can be waived for one year
after which the property owner shall properly abandon the lines to the mains if
nothing has been done.
90.05 PERMIT.
Before any person makes a connection with the public water system, a written
permit must be obtained from the City. The application for the permit shall
include a legal description of the property, the name of the property owner,
the name and address of the person who will do the work, and the general uses
of the water. If the proposed work meets all the requirements of this chapter
and if all fees required under this chapter have been paid, the permit shall be
issued. Work under any permit must be completed within 60 days after the permit
is issued, except that when such time period is inequitable or unfair due to
conditions beyond the control of the person making the application, an
extension of time within which to complete the work may be granted. The permit
may be revoked at any time for any violation of these chapters.
90.06 FEE FOR PERMIT.
The fee which is subject to the City’s Fees & Fines Resolution is to cover the
cost of issuing the permit and supervising, regulating, and inspecting the
work.
(Section 90.06 – Ord. 1248 – Jun. 25 Supp.)
90.07 COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE.
The installation of any water service pipe and any connection with the water
system shall comply with all pertinent and applicable provisions, whether
regulatory, procedural, or enforcement provisions, of the State Plumbing Code.
90.08 PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installations of water service pipes and connections to the water system
shall be made by a State-licensed plumber.
90.09 EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required in making a connection
shall be performed in accordance with the State Plumbing Code and the
provisions of
Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
90.10 TAPPING MAINS.
All taps into water mains shall be made by or under the direct supervision of
the Superintendent and in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Independent Services. No more than one house, building, or premises shall
be supplied from one tap unless special written permission is obtained from the
Superintendent and unless provision is made so that each house, building, or
premises may be shut off independently of the other.
2.   Sizes and Location of Taps. All mains six inches or less in diameter shall
receive no larger than a three-fourths inch tap. All mains of over six inches
in diameter shall receive no larger than a one-inch tap. Where a larger
connection than a one-inch tap is desired, two or more small taps or saddles
shall be used, as the Superintendent shall order. All taps in the mains shall
be made in the top half of the pipe, at least 18 inches apart. No main shall be
tapped nearer than two feet of the joint in the main.
3.   Corporation Stop. A brass corporation stop, of the pattern and weight
approved by the Superintendent, shall be inserted in every tap in the main. The
corporation stop in the main shall be of the same size as the service pipe.
4.   Location Record. An accurate and dimensional sketch showing the exact
location of the tap shall be filed with the Superintendent in such form as the
Superintendent shall require.
90.11 INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE PIPE.
Water service pipes from the main to the meter setting shall be Type K copper.
The use of any other pipe material for the service line shall first be approved
by the Superintendent. Pipe must be laid sufficiently waving, and to such
depth, as to prevent rupture from settlement or freezing.
90.12 RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER SERVICE PIPE.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the water service pipe from the main to the building served
shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss
or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation or
maintenance of said water service pipe.
90.13 FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
When any portion of the water service pipe which is the responsibility of the
property owner becomes defective or creates a nuisance and the owner fails to
correct such nuisance, the City may do so and assess the costs thereof to the
property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a and h])
90.14 CURB VALVE.
There shall be installed within the public right-of-way a main shut-off valve
on the water service pipe of a pattern approved by the Superintendent. The
shut-off valve shall be constructed to be visible and even with the pavement or
ground and made of metallic material.
90.15 INTERIOR VALVE.
There shall be installed a shut-off valve on every service pipe inside the
building as close to the entrance of the pipe within the building as possible
and so located that the water can be shut off conveniently. Where one service
pipe supplies more than one customer within the building, there shall be
separate valves for each such customer so that service may be shut off for one
without interfering with service to the others.
90.16 INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
All water service pipes and their connections to the water system must be
inspected and approved in writing by the Superintendent before they are
covered, and the Superintendent shall keep a record of such approvals. If the
Superintendent refuses to approve the work, the plumber or property owner must
proceed immediately to correct the work. Every person who uses or intends to
use the municipal water system shall permit the Superintendent to enter the
premises to inspect or make necessary alterations or repairs at all reasonable
hours and on proof of authority. Inspections will be conducted during normal
working hours, 8:00 a.m. through 3:30 p.m., Monday through Friday.
90.17 COMPLETION BY THE CITY.
Should any excavation be left open or only partly refilled for 24 hours after
the water service pipe is installed and connected with the water system, or
should the work be improperly done, the City shall have the right to finish or
correct the work, and the Council shall assess the costs to the property owner
or the plumber. If the plumber is assessed, the plumber must pay the costs
before receiving another permit. If the property owner is assessed, such
assessment may be collected with and in the same manner as general property
taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a and h])
90.18 SHUTTING OFF WATER SUPPLY.
The Superintendent may shut off the supply of water to any customer because of
any violation of the regulations contained in these Water Service System
chapters that is not being contested in good faith. The supply shall not be
turned on again until all violations have been corrected and the Superintendent
has ordered the water to be turned on. No water will be turned on after normal
working hours.
90.19 OPERATION OF CURB VALVE AND HYDRANTS.
It is unlawful for any person except the Superintendent to turn water on at the
curb valve, and no person, unless specifically authorized by the City, shall
open or attempt to draw water from any fire hydrant for any purpose whatsoever.
90.20 FLUORIDE TREATMENT.
The Municipal public water supply of the City shall be so processed and treated
as to maintain zero point six with no upper limit parts per million of sodium
fluoride or other fluoride chemical recommended and approved by the State
Department of Health, or in such amount as may be otherwise recommended by the
State Department of Health. Such processing and treatment, as well as the
installation of necessary equipment, and the selection of material for
processing and treating the Municipal public water supply of the City shall be
in strict compliance with all recommendations and directions and subject to the
approval of the State Department of Health in all respects concerning the
actual conduct of such processing treatment.
90.21 LIABILITY.
The City does not guarantee a constant supply of water to any consumer and
shall not be liable for damages for any failure to supply the same. The City
shall not be liable for any claim or damage by reason of breaking of any
service pipe, stop-cock, or other equipment, or if for any reason the supply to
water shall be shut off to make repairs, connections or extensions or for any
other purpose that may be found necessary. The City reserves the right to cut
off the supply at any time.
90.22 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
It shall be a municipal infraction, punishable as stated in
Chapter 3, in addition to any and all other penalties provided for by this Code
of Ordinances, for any person, entity, or party to:
1.   Break, injure, mar, or deface, interfere with or disturb any building,
machinery, apparatus, fixtures, attachments, or appurtenances of the Waterworks
Department or any hydrant thereof, or deposit anything in any stopcock box, or
commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use of any of the
above mentioned property, without permission of the Council, or excepting cases
herein or otherwise provided by the Manager.
2.   Alter, tamper with, or deface any water meter and water meter end point,
or to secure City water by routing the water’s flow around a water meter to
avoid incurring a bill for the water used.
CHAPTER 91
WATER METERS
 
91.01 Purpose                           91.05 Meter Setting
91.02 Water Use Metered                 91.06 Meter Costs
91.03 Fire Sprinkler Systems; Exception 91.07 Meter Repairs
91.04 Location of Meters                91.08 Right of Entry
 
91.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to encourage the conservation of water and
facilitate the equitable distribution of charges for water service among
customers.
91.02 WATER USE METERED.
All water furnished customers shall be measured through meters furnished by the
City and installed by the City.
91.03 FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS; EXCEPTION.
Fire sprinkler systems may be connected to water mains by direct connection
without meters under the direct supervision of the Superintendent. No other
open, unmetered connection shall be incorporated in the system, and there shall
be no valves except a main control valve at the entrance to the building which
must be sealed open.
91.04 LOCATION OF METERS.
All meters shall be so located that they are easily accessible to meter readers
and repairmen and protected from freezing.
91.05 METER SETTING.
The property owner shall provide all necessary piping and fittings for proper
setting of the meter including a valve on the discharge side of the meter and
meter nipples on both sides. Meter pits may be used only upon approval of the
Superintendent and shall be of a design and construction approved by the
Superintendent.
91.06 METER COSTS.
The full cost of any meter larger than one-inch that is required for a single-
family residence shall be paid to the City by the property owner or customer
prior to the installation of any such meter by the City, or, at the sole option
of the City, the property owner or customer may be required to purchase and
install such meter in accordance with requirements established by the City.
1.   Meters in excess of one-inch in size shall be furnished and installed at
the property owner’s expense. Meters in excess of one-inch shall be installed
with a bypass system allowing for the removal of the meter. The bypass system
shall have a locking device. The only person possessing the key to such locking
devices shall be the Superintendent or a duly authorized employee of the
Waterworks Department.
2.   Meters in excess of one-inch shall be tested for accuracy by a qualified
technician authorized and approved by the City Manager. The cost for such tests
shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
3.   Meters in excess of one-inch shall be tested for accuracy on a basis of
once every five years or more frequently as determined by the City Manager.
4.   If the property owner with a meter in excess of one-inch fails to test
such meter for accuracy as required by this section, the City Manager shall
send by certified mail a 30-day written notice of the need for such test to the
property owner. If the test has not been completed at the expiration of the 30-
day notice, the City Manager shall authorize such test and apply the cost to
the water service account of the property owner.
91.07 METER REPAIRS.
Whenever a water meter owned by the City is found to be out of order, the
Superintendent shall have it repaired. If it is found that damage to the meter
has occurred due to the carelessness or negligence of the customer or property
owner, or the meter is not owned by the City, then the property owner shall be
liable for the cost of repairs and replacement.
91.08 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Superintendent shall be permitted to enter the premises of any customer at
any reasonable time to read, remove, or change a meter.
CHAPTER 92
WATER RATES
 
92.01 Service Charges           92.06 Lien for Nonpayment
92.02 Rates For Service         92.07 Lien Exemption
92.03 Rates Outside the City    92.08 Lien Notice
92.04 Billing for Water Service 92.09 Customer Deposits
92.05 Service Discontinued      92.10 Temporary Vacancy - Reconnecting Fee
 
92.01 SERVICE CHARGES.
Each customer shall pay for water service provided by the City based upon use
of water as determined by meters provided for in
Chapter 91. Each location, building, premises, or connection shall be
considered a separate and distinct customer whether owned or controlled by the
same person or not.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.02 RATES FOR SERVICE.
Water service shall be furnished at the monthly rates within the City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   All customers.
 
2023 Billing Cycle                   Rate
Effective July 1, 2023
Basic service plus first 300 cu. ft. $15.036 (minimum bill)
Over 300 cu. ft.                     $1.55 per 100 cu. ft. ($0.0155 per cu.
                                     ft.)
Over 100,300 cu. ft.                 $0.51 per 100 cu. ft.
Non-metered trailers                 $23.347 per month
Rates will increase three percent annually on July 1.
2.   Firefighting Systems. For the purpose of controlling and regulating
firefighting systems connected to the City water system a rate shall be charged
according to size of pipe or pipes entering premises.
 
Service Main Size Annual Fire Rates
2 inches          $4.60
4 inches          $29.00
6 inches          $81.00
8 inches          $165.00
10 inches         $290.00
12 inches         $460.00
 
For recording and rate purposes each pipe shall be considered a separate system
and shall be charged separately.
3.   Rate for Water Not Entering Sanitary Sewer System. The Waterworks
Department shall charge $28.00 per year for the installation of and maintenance
of a separate water meter for water that does not enter the City’s sanitary
sewer system. The property owner shall also pay the current rate for water
consumed as outlined in Subsection 1 but shall not pay the sewer user charge
for the water metered by this separate meter. The property owner shall make a
written request for a separate water meter and the fee shall be due and payable
15 days after the installation of the meter.
Effective July 1, 2025 †
 
2025-2026 Fiscal Year                Rate
Effective July 1, 2025
Basic service plus first 300 cu. ft. $16.648 (minimum bill)
Over 300 cu. ft.                     $1.79 per 100 cu. ft. ($0.0179 per cu.
                                     ft.)
Over 100,300 cu. ft.                 $0.57 per 100 cu. ft.
Non-metered trailers                 $25.85 per month
Rates will increase by 7.5% annually on July 1, 2026, 2027 and 2028 and by 5%
on July 1, 2029 and 2030
Each user account will also be assessed a fee equal to the actual AMI Hosting
Fee incurred by the City. AMI Hosting fee shall commence July 1, 2025 and
continue indefinitely thereafter.
 
(Section 92.02 – Ord. 1242 – Dec. 24 Supp.)
 
Notes
  EDITOR’S NOTE: Per Ordinance No. 1242 all prior language in Section 92.02
shall be repealed on July 1, 2025 and then the following chart shall be
  implemented and in force.
92.03 RATES OUTSIDE THE CITY.
Water service shall be provided to any customer located outside the corporate
limits of the City which the City has agreed to serve at rates double the rates
provided in Section
92.02. No such customer, however, will be served unless the customer shall have
signed a service contract agreeing to be bound by the ordinances, rules, and
regulations applying to water service established by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4 and 384.84)
92.04 BILLING FOR WATER SERVICE.
Water service shall be billed as part of a combined service account, payable in
accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   Bills Issued. The Clerk shall prepare and issue bills for combined service
accounts on or before the 1 st day of each month.
2.   Bills Payable. Bills for combined service accounts shall be due and
payable at the office of the Clerk by the 20 th day of the same month.
3.   Late Payment Penalty. Bills not paid when due shall be considered
delinquent. A one-time late payment penalty of 10.5 percent of the amount due
shall be added to each delinquent bill.
(Subsection 3 – Ord. 1221 – May 24 Supp.)
4.   Door Posting. There is a fee, subject to the City’s Fees & Fines
Resolution, for each 24-hour door posting, prior to shut-off, that is posed for
delinquent bills. The fee will be collected when the customer pays the
delinquent bill.
(Subsection 4 – Ord. 1226 – Sep. 24 Supp.)
5.   Failure to receive a properly rendered bill shall not entitle the customer
to relief from penalties for late payment.
92.05 SERVICE DISCONTINUED.
Water service to delinquent customers shall be discontinued or disconnected in
accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   Notice. The Clerk shall notify each delinquent customer that service will
be discontinued or disconnected if payment of the combined service account,
including late payment charges, is not received by the date specified in the
notice of delinquency. Such notice shall be sent by ordinary mail to the
customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred and shall inform
the customer of the nature of the delinquency and afford the customer the
opportunity for a hearing prior to the discontinuance or disconnection.
2.   Notice to Landlords. If the customer is a tenant, and if the owner or
landlord of the property or premises has made a written request for notice, the
notice of delinquency shall also be given to the owner or landlord. If the
customer is a tenant and requests a change of name for service under the
account, such request shall be sent to the owner or landlord of the property if
the owner or landlord has made a written request for notice of any change of
name for service under the account to the rental property.
3.   Hearing. If a hearing is requested by noon of the day preceding the shut
off, the City Manager shall conduct an informal hearing and shall make a
determination as to whether the discontinuance or disconnection is justified.
The customer has the right to appeal the City Manager’s decision to the
Council, and if the Council finds that discontinuance or disconnection is
justified, then such discontinuance or disconnection shall be made, unless
payment has been received.
4.   Reconnecting Fee. A fee will be charged to a delinquent customer before
service is restored. This fee is subject to the City’s fees and fines
resolution. No fee shall be charged for the usual or customary trips in the
regular changes in occupancies of property.
(Subsection 4 – Ord. 1245 – Jun. 25 Supp.)
92.06 LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
The owner of the premises served, and any lessee or tenant thereof shall be
jointly and severally liable for water service charges to the premises. Water
service charges remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon
the property or premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the
County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.07 LIEN EXEMPTION.   
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   Water Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall not apply to
charges for water service to a residential or commercial rental property where
water service is separately metered and the rates or charges for the water
service are paid directly to the City by the tenant, if the landlord gives
written notice to the City that the property is residential or commercial
rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or charges. The
City may require a deposit not exceeding the usual cost of 90 days of such
services to be paid to the City. When the tenant moves from the rental
property, the City shall refund the deposit if all service charges are paid in
full. The lien exemption does not apply to delinquent charges for repairs
related to any of the services.
2.   Other Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall also not apply to
the charges for any of the services of sewer systems, stormwater drainage
systems, sewage treatment, solid waste collection, and solid waste disposal for
a residential rental property where the charge is paid directly to the City by
the tenant, if the landlord gives written notice to the City that the property
is residential rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or
charges for such service. The City may require a deposit not exceeding the
usual cost of 90 days of such services to be paid to the City. When the tenant
moves from the rental property, the City shall refund the deposit if all
service charges are paid in full. The lien exemption does not apply to
delinquent charges for repairs related to any of the services.
3.   Written Notice. The landlord’s written notice shall contain the name of
the tenant responsible for charges, the address of the residential or
commercial rental property that the tenant is to occupy, and the date that the
occupancy begins. Upon receipt, the City shall acknowledge the notice and
deposit. A change in tenant for a residential rental property shall require a
new written notice to be given to the City within 30 business days of the
change in tenant. A change in tenant for a commercial rental property shall
require a new written notice to be given to the City within 10 business days of
the change in tenant. A change in the ownership of the residential rental
property shall require written notice of such change to be given to the City
within 30 business days of the completion of the change of ownership. A change
in the ownership of the commercial rental property shall require written notice
of such change to be given to the City within 10 business days of the
completion of the change of ownership.
4.   Mobile Homes, Modular Homes, and Manufactured Homes. A lien for nonpayment
of utility services described in Subsections 1 and 2 of this section shall not
be placed upon a premises that is a mobile home, modular home, or manufactured
home if the mobile home, modular home, or manufactured home is owned by a
tenant of and located in a mobile home park or manufactured home community and
the mobile home park or manufactured home community owner or manager is the
account holder, unless the lease agreement specifies that the tenant is
responsible for payment of a portion of the rates or charges billed to the
account holder.
92.08 LIEN NOTICE.  
A lien for delinquent water service charges shall not be certified to the
County Treasurer unless prior written notice of intent to certify a lien is
given to the customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred. If
the customer is a tenant and if the owner or landlord of the property or
premises has made a written request for notice, the notice shall also be given
to the owner or landlord. The notice shall be sent to the appropriate persons
by ordinary mail not less than 30 days prior to certification of the lien to
the County Treasurer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.09 CUSTOMER DEPOSITS.
There shall be required from every customer not the owner of the premises
served a $100.00 deposit intended to guarantee the payment of bills for
service.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.10 TEMPORARY VACANCY - RECONNECTING FEE.
A property owner may request water service be temporarily discontinued and shut
off at the curb valve when the property is expected to be vacant for an
extended period of time. There is a fee which is subject to the City’s Fees &
Fines Resolution for restoring service. During a period when service is
temporarily discontinued as provided herein there shall be no minimum service
charge. The City will not drain pipes or pull meters for temporary vacancies.
(Section 92.10 – Ord. 1245 – Jun. 25 Supp.)
CHAPTER 93
WELL PROTECTION
 
93.01 Definitions 93.03 Exception
93.02 Application 93.04 Nonconforming Uses
 
93.01 DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined as used in this chapter:
1.   “Aquifer” means a rock formation, group of rock formations, or part of a
rock formation that contains enough saturated permeable materials to yield
significant quantities of water.
2.   “Contamination” means the presence of any harmful or deleterious
substances in the water supply.
3.   “Deep public well” means a public well located and constructed in such a
manner that there is a continuous layer of low permeability soil or rock at
least five feet thick located at least 25 feet below the normal ground surface
and above the aquifer from which the water is drawn.
4.   “Shallow public well” means a public well located and constructed in such
a manner that there is not a continuous layer of low permeability soil or rock
at least five feet thick located at least 25 feet below the normal ground
surface and above the aquifer from which the water is drawn.
5.   “Well” means a pit or hole sunk into the earth to reach a resource supply
such as water.
93.02 APPLICATION.
No structure or facility of the enumerated types set out in the following
Table A shall be located within the distances set forth in said Table from
public wells within the City.
93.03 EXCEPTION.
Proscriptions set forth in
Table A apply to all public water wells existing within the City except public
water wells formerly abandoned for use by resolution of the Council.
93.04 NONCONFORMING USES.
The use of structures or facilities existing as of the date of adoption of the
ordinance codified in this chapter may be continued even though such use may
not conform to the regulations in this chapter; in other words, such uses may
be located within the distances set forth. However, such structure or facility
that is not in conformance with the terms of this chapter may not be enlarged,
extended, reconstructed, or substituted subsequent to such date.
TABLE A: SEPARATION DISTANCES
SOURCE OF CONTAMINATION REQUIRED MINIMUM LATERAL DISTANCE FROM WELL AS
                        HORIZONTAL ON THE GROUND SURFACE, IN FEET
                       Deep Well1 Shallow Well1
TABLE A: SEPARATION DISTANCES
SOURCE OF CONTAMINATION   REQUIRED MINIMUM LATERAL DISTANCE FROM WELL AS
                          HORIZONTAL ON THE GROUND SURFACE, IN FEET
                         Deep Well1                 Shallow Well1
WASTEWATER STRUCTURES:
Point of Discharge to Ground Surface
Sanitary and industrial   400                        400
discharges
Water treatment plant     50                         50
wastes
Well house floor drains   5                          5
Sewers and Drains2
                          0 25 feet: prohibited      0 25 feet: prohibited
Sanitary and storm        25 75 feet if water main   25 75 feet if water main
sewers, drains            pipe                       pipe
                          75 200 feet if sanitary    75 200 feet if sanitary
                          sewer pipe                 sewer main pipe
                          0 75 feet: prohibited      0 75 feet: prohibited
                          75 400 feet if water main  75 400 feet if water main
Sewer force mains         pipe                       pipe
                          400 1,000 feet if sanitary 400 1,000 feet if sanitary
                          sewer pipe                 sewer main pipe
Water plant treatment     0 5 feet: prohibited       0 5 feet: prohibited
process wastes that are   5 50 feet if sanitary      5 50 feet if sanitary
treated onsite            sewer pipe                 sewer main pipe
                          0 25 feet: prohibited      0 25 feet: prohibited
Water plant wastes to     25 75 feet if water main   25 75 feet if water main
sanitary sewer            pipe                       pipe
                          75 200 feet if sanitary    75 200 feet if sanitary
                          sewer pipe                 sewer main pipe
                          0 25 feet: prohibited      0 25 feet: prohibited
Well house floor drains   25 75 feet if water main   25 75 feet if water main
to sewers                 pipe                       pipe
                          75 200 feet if sanitary    75 200 feet if sanitary
                          sewer pipe                 sewer main pipe
Well house floor drains   0 5 feet: prohibited       0 5 feet: prohibited
to surface                5 50 feet if sanitary      5 50 feet if sanitary
                          sewer pipe                 sewer main pipe
Land Disposal of Treated Wastes
Irrigation of wastewater  200                        400
Land application of solid 200                        400
wastes3
Other
Cesspools and earth pit   200                        400
privies
Concrete vaults and       100                        200
septic tanks
Lagoons                   400                        1,000
Mechanical wastewater     200                        400
treatment plants
Soil absorption fields    200                        400
CHEMICALS:
Chemical application to   100                        200
ground surface
Chemical & mineral        100                        200
storage above ground
Chemical & mineral
storage on or under       200                        400
ground
Transmission pipelines
(such as fertilizer,      200                        400
liquid petroleum, or
anhydrous ammonia)
ANIMALS:
Animal pasturage          50                         50
Animal enclosure          200                        400
Earthen silage storage    100                        200
trench or pit
Animal Wastes
Land application of       200                        400
liquid or slurry
Land application of       200                        400
solids
Solids stockpile          200                        400
Storage basin or lagoon   400                        1,000
Storage tank              200                        400
MISCELLANEOUS:
Basements, pits, sumps    10                         10
Cemeteries                200                        200
Cisterns                  50                         100
Flowing streams or other  50                         50
surface water bodies
GHEX loop boreholes       200                        200
Railroads                 100                        200
Private wells             200                        400
Solid waste landfills and 1,000                      1,000
disposal sites 4
1   Deep and shallow wells, as defined in IAC 567-40.2(455B): A deep well is a
well located and constructed in such a manner that there is a continuous layer
of low permeability soil or rock at least five feet thick located at least 25
feet below the normal ground surface and above the aquifer from which water is
to be drawn. A shallow well is a well located and constructed in such a manner
that there is not a continuous layer of low permeability soil or rock (or
equivalent retarding mechanism acceptable to the department) at least five feet
thick, the top of which is located at least 25 feet below the normal ground
surface and above the aquifer from which water is to be drawn.
2   The separation distances are dependent upon two factors: the type of piping
that is in the existing sewer or drain, as noted in the table, and that the
piping was properly installed in accordance with the standards.
3   Solid wastes are those derived from the treatment of water or wastewater.
Certain types of solid wastes from water treatment processes may be land-
applied within the separation distance on an individual, case-by-case basis.
4   Solid waste means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar discarded
solid or semisolid materials, including but not limited to such materials
resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic activities.
CHAPTER 95
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
 
95.01 Purpose                   95.06 Service Outside the City
95.02 Definitions               95.07 Right of Entry
95.03 Superintendent            95.08 Use of Easements
95.04 Prohibited Acts           95.09 Special Penalties
95.05 Sewer Connection Required 95.10 Abandoned Sewer Lines
 
95.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters of this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Sanitary
Sewers is to establish rules and regulations governing the treatment and
disposal of sanitary sewage within the City in order to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
95.02 DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise,
the following terms are defined:
1.   “B.O.D.” (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand) means the quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20?, expressed in milligrams per liter or
parts per million.
2.   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the
building sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
3.   “Building sewer” means that part of the horizontal piping from the
building wall to its connection with the main sewer or the primary treatment
portion of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system conveying the
drainage of one building site.
4.   “Combined sewer” means a sewer receiving both surface run-off and sewage.
5.   “Customer” means any person responsible for the production of domestic,
commercial, or industrial waste that is directly or indirectly discharged into
the public sewer system.
6.   “Garbage” means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of
produce.
7.   “Industrial wastes” means the liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
8.   “Inspector” means the person duly authorized by the Council to inspect and
approve the installation of building sewers and their connections to the public
sewer system; and to inspect such sewage as may be discharged therefrom.
9.   “Natural outlet” means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake,
or other body of surface or groundwater.
10.   “On-site wastewater treatment and disposal system” means all equipment
and devices necessary for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment,
and disposal of wastewater from four or fewer dwelling units or other
facilities serving the equivalent of 15 persons (1,500 gpd) or less.
11.   “pH” means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions
in grams per liter of solution.
12.   “Public sewer” means a sewer in which all owners of abutting properties
have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
13.   “Sanitary sewage” means sewage discharging from the sanitary conveniences
of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office buildings,
factories, or institutions, and free from storm, surface water, and industrial
waste.
14.   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer that carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
15.   “Sewage” means a combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with
such ground, surface, and stormwaters as may be present.
16.   “Sewage treatment plant” means any arrangement of devices and structures
used for treating sewage.
17.   “Sewage works” or “sewage system” means all facilities for collecting,
pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage.
18.   “Sewer” means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
19.   “Sewer service charges” means any and all charges, rates or fees levied
against and payable by customers, as consideration for the servicing of said
customers by said sewer system.
20.   “Slug” means any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste that in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
21.   “Storm drain” or “storm sewer” means a sewer that carries storm and
surface waters and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
22.   “Superintendent” means the Superintendent of sewage works and/or of water
pollution control of the City or any authorized deputy, agent, or
representative.
23.   “Suspended solids” means solids that either float on the surface of, or
are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and that are removable by
laboratory filtering.
24.   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
95.03 SUPERINTENDENT.
The Superintendent shall exercise the following powers and duties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Operation and Maintenance. Operate and maintain the City sewage system.
2.   Inspection and Tests. Conduct necessary inspections and tests to assure
compliance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
3.   Records. Maintain a complete and accurate record of all public sewers,
sewage connections, and public manholes constructed showing the location and
grades thereof.
95.04 PROHIBITED ACTS.
No person shall do, or allow, any of the following:
1.   Damage Sewer System. Maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment that is a part of the sewer system.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
2.   Surface Run-Off or Groundwater. Connect a roof downspout, sump pump,
exterior foundation drain, areaway drain, or other source of surface run-off or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
3.   Manholes. Open or enter any manhole of the sewer system, except by
authority of the Superintendent.
4.   Objectionable Wastes. Place or deposit in any unsanitary manner on public
or private property within the City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
5.   Septic Tanks. Construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage except
as provided in these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
6.   Untreated Discharge. Discharge to any natural outlet within the City, or
in any area under its jurisdiction, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
95.05 SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
The owners of any houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in
the future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer, are hereby required
to install, at such owner’s expense, suitable toilet facilities therein and a
building sewer connecting such facilities directly with the proper public
sewer, and to maintain the same all in accordance with the provisions of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters, such compliance to be completed within 60 days after
date of official notice from the City to do so provided that said public sewer
is located within 200 feet of the property line of such owner and is of such
design as to receive and convey by gravity such sewage as may be conveyed to
it. Billing for sanitary sewer service will begin the date of official notice
to connect to the public sewer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
95.06 SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
The owners of property outside the corporate limits of the City so situated
that it may be served by the City sewer system may apply to the Council for
permission to connect to the public sewer upon the terms and conditions
stipulated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 and 3])
95.07 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
The Superintendent or representatives shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper,
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
95.08 USE OF EASEMENTS.
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
95.09 SPECIAL PENALTIES.
The following special penalty provisions shall apply to violations of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters:
1.   Notice of Violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of
these chapters except Subsections 1, 3, and 4 of Section
95.04, shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
2.   Continuing Violations. Any person who shall continue any violation beyond
the time limit provided for in Subsection 1 hereof shall be in violation of
this Code of Ordinances. Each day in which any such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
3.   Liability Imposed. Any person violating any of the provisions of these
chapters shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the City by reason of such violation.
95.10 ABANDONED SEWER LINES.  
Whenever a structure has had previous water and sewer services provided to it
and that structure is permanently demolished, the property owner shall be
responsible for abandoning the water and sewer service lines to the permanently
demolished structure at their respective mains rather than terminating service
lines at the curb or the curb stop. The property owner shall also be
responsible for any repairs to a public street or other public infrastructure
that are needed due to this work. If the property owner is planning to re-use
the water or sewer service on that property for a future building, abandonment
of the water and sewer lines can be waived for one year after which the
property owner shall properly abandon the lines to the mains if nothing has
been done.
CHAPTER 96
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
 
96.01 Permit                  96.07 Sewer Tap
96.02 Permit Fee              96.08 Inspection Required
96.03 Plumber Required        96.09 Property Owner’s Responsibility
96.04 Excavations             96.10 Abatement of Violations
96.05 Connection Requirements 96.11 Orangeburg Tile
96.06 Interceptors Required
 
96.01 PERMIT.  
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening into,
use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the City. The application for the permit shall
set forth the following information:
1.   The location and description of the property to be connected with the
sewer system.
2.   The purpose for which the sewer is to be used.
3.   Plans, specifications, or other information considered pertinent.
The permit shall require the owner to complete construction and connection of
the building sewer to the public sewer within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit, except that when a property owner makes sufficient showing that due to
conditions beyond the owner’s control or peculiar hardship, such time period is
inequitable or unfair, an extension of time within which to comply with the
provisions herein may be granted. Any sewer connection permit may be revoked at
any time for a violation of these chapters.
96.02 PERMIT FEE.
The person who makes the application shall pay a fee to the Clerk to cover the
cost of issuing the permit and supervising, regulating, and inspecting the
work. This fee is subject to the City’s Fees & Fines Resolution.
(Section 96.02 – Ord. 1249 – Jun. 25 Supp.)
96.03 PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installations of building sewers and connections to the public sewer shall
be made by a State-licensed plumber.
96.04 EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required for the installation of a
building sewer shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the
State Plumbing Code and the provisions of
Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
96.05 CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
Any connection with a public sanitary sewer must be made under the direct
supervision of the Superintendent and in accordance with the following:
1.   Old Building Sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test conducted by
the owner and observed by the Superintendent, to meet all requirements of this
chapter.
2.   Separate Building Sewers. Every house, store, or other building connected
with the public sewer must have a direct connection therewith. In no case shall
two or more buildings be allowed to make such connections through one pipe. In
no case shall a building be connected to the public sewer through a pipe laid
beneath or through property owned by another person. In no case shall any
person be permitted to maintain, without the consent of the approving
authority, any sewer connection connecting a building owned by them to the
public sewer across or under the property of another.
3.   Installation. The installation and connection of the building sewer to the
public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the State Plumbing Code and
applicable rules and regulations of the City. All such connections shall be
made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
4.   Water Lines. When possible, building sewers should be laid at least 10
feet horizontally from a water service. The horizontal separation may be less,
provided the water service line is located at one side and at least 12 inches
above the top of the building sewer.
5.   Size. Building sewers shall be sized for the peak expected sewage flow
from the building with a minimum building sewer size of four inches.
6.   Alignment and Grade. All building sewers shall be laid to a straight line
to meet the following:
   A.   Recommended grade at one-fourth inch per foot.
   B.   Minimum grade of one-eighth inch per foot.
   C.   Minimum velocity of two feet per second with the sewer half full.
   D.   Any deviation in alignment or grade shall be made only with the written
approval of the Superintendent and shall be made only with approved fittings.
7.   Depth. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. The depth of cover above the
sewer shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost.
8.   Sewage Lifts. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain
shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building
sewer.
9.   Pipe Specifications. Building sewer pipe shall be free from flaws, splits,
or breaks. Materials shall be as specified in the State Plumbing Code except
that the building sewer pipe, from the property line to the public sewer, shall
comply with the current edition of one of the following:
   A.   Clay sewer pipe – A.S.T.M. C-700 (extra strength).
   B.   Extra heavy cast iron soil pipe – A.S.T.M. A-74.
   C.   Ductile iron water pipe – A.W.W.A. C-151.
   D.   P.V.C. – SDR26 – A.S.T.M. D-3034.
10.   Bearing Walls. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within
three feet of any bearing wall that might thereby be weakened.
11.   Jointing. Fittings, type of joint and jointing material shall be
compatible with the type of pipe used, subject to the approval of the
Superintendent. Solvent-welded joints are not permitted.
12.   Unstable Soil. No sewer connection shall be laid so that it is exposed
when crossing any watercourse. Where an old watercourse must of necessity be
crossed or where there is any danger of undermining or settlement, cast iron
soil pipe or vitrified clay sewer pipe thoroughly encased in concrete shall be
required for such crossings. Such encasement shall extend at least six inches
on all sides of the pipe. The cast iron pipe or encased clay pipe shall rest on
firm, solid material at either end.
13.   Preparation of Basement or Crawl Space. No connection for any residence,
business or other structure with any sanitary sewer shall be made unless the
basement floor is poured, or in the case of a building with a slab or crawl
space, unless the ground floor is installed with the area adjacent to the
foundation of such building cleared of debris and backfilled. The backfill
shall be well compacted and graded so that the drainage is away from the
foundation. Prior to the time the basement floor is poured, or the first floor
is installed in buildings without basements, the sewer shall be plugged and the
plug shall be sealed by the Superintendent. Any accumulation of water in any
excavation or basement during construction and prior to connection to the
sanitary sewer shall be removed by means other than draining into the sanitary
sewer.
96.06 INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
Grease, oil, sludge, and sand interceptors shall be provided by gas and service
stations, convenience stores, car washes, garages, and other facilities when,
in the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of such wastes that contain grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable waste, sand, or other harmful ingredients. Such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. When required,
such interceptors shall be installed in accordance with the following:
1.   Design and Location. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity as
specified in the State Plumbing Code, to be approved by the Superintendent, and
shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
2.   Construction Standards. The interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious material capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped
with easily removable covers that shall be gastight and watertight.
3.   Maintenance. All such interceptors shall be maintained by the owner at the
owner’s expense and shall be kept in continuously efficient operations at all
times.
4.   The use of enzymes to clean or flush a grease trap is prohibited and any
means of cleaning a grease trap other than the means required by this chapter
is prohibited.
96.07 SEWER TAP.
Connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the “Y”
branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If no properly
located “Y” branch is available, a saddle “Y” shall be installed at the
location specified by the Superintendent. The public sewer shall be tapped with
a tapping machine and a saddle appropriate to the type of public sewer shall be
glued or attached with a gasket and stainless steel clamps to the sewer. At no
time shall a building sewer be constructed so as to enter a manhole unless
special written permission is received from the Superintendent and in
accordance with the Superintendent’s direction if such connection is approved.
1.   Existing wyes shall be used to connect building sewers to public sanitary
or combined sewers. Except for lined concrete sanitary sewers, the Building
Official may approve a sewer tap at a location where no wye was originally
installed. The person making the connection shall make an opening in the main
sewer similar to the interior diameter of the “Y” branch and then property
cement and attach a saddle in place. The saddle shall have a suitable curvature
to conform to the outside diameter of the public sewer.
2.   Building sewers shall not be less than four inches nor more than six
inches in internal diameter of the cast iron schedule 40 PVC equal in quality
to the best pipe laid in the public sewers. Where vitrified clay pipe and cast
iron is used, it shall have a minimum diameter of four inches.
96.08 INSPECTION REQUIRED.
All connections with the sanitary sewer system before being covered shall be
inspected and approved, in writing, by the Superintendent. As soon as all pipe
work from the public sewer to inside the building has been completed, and
before any backfilling is done, the Superintendent shall be notified and the
Superintendent shall inspect and test the work as to workmanship and material;
no sewer pipe laid underground shall be covered or trenches filled until after
the sewer has been so inspected and approved. If the Superintendent refuses to
approve the work, the plumber or owner must proceed immediately to correct the
work.
1.   Any person filling in an excavation without first having received the
written approval of the Sewer or Building Official as provided in this chapter,
shall, in addition to suffering the fine herein imposed, expose the sewer for
inspection by the Sewer or Building Official at no cost to the City, during
normal work hours from 8:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. In any
case where the Inspector finds the work on any sewer not done in a satisfactory
manner as herein provided, he shall serve a written notice on the person to
whom the permit is issued, stating wherein such work is deficient, and ordering
said person to remedy such defect within 72 hours. In the event such person
fails to comply therewith, the Inspector shall cause such defect to be
corrected at the expense of the person to whom the permit was issued. The sum
of $25.00 as herein provided shall be paid the City as a fee for the
performance of the Inspector, and it shall be the duty of the Inspector to
inspect any sewer connection or sewer pipe within the City during normal work
hours from 8:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. It shall also be the
duty of said Inspector to inform the approving authority of any violation of
this section, and to assist in the prosecution of offenders.
2.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
protected with barricades and lights according to City and State regulations.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored to its original condition.
3.   All excavations shall be properly shored or an applicable protective
system in place before a City agent or employee can enter to perform work or an
inspection.
96.09 PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the building sewer, from the main to the building served, shall
be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building sewer.
96.10 ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
Construction or maintenance of building sewer lines, whether located upon the
private property of any owner or in the public right-of-way, which construction
or maintenance is in violation of any of the requirements of this chapter,
shall be corrected, at the owner’s expense, within 30 days after date of
official notice from the Council of such violation. If not made within such
time, the Council shall, in addition to the other penalties herein provided,
have the right to finish and correct the work and assess the cost thereof to
the property owner. Such assessment shall be collected with and in the same
manner as general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3])
96.11 ORANGEBURG TILE.
Property owners are required, at the owner’s expense, to immediately and
completely replace any Orangeburg tile whenever it is encountered during the
course of any excavation of any public right-of-way or public utility easement.
Orangeburg tile must be replaced with suitable materials as identified by the
City’s Standard Specifications.
CHAPTER 97
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
 
97.01 Stormwater               97.05 Restricted Discharges; Powers of
                               Superintendent
97.02 Surface Waters Exception 97.06 Special Facilities
97.03 Prohibited Discharges    97.07 Control Manholes
97.04 Restricted Discharges    97.08 Testing of Wastes
 
97.01 STORMWATER.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof run-off, sub-surface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers
that are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a
natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the Superintendent,
to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
97.02 SURFACE WATERS EXCEPTION.
Special permits for discharging surface waters to a public sanitary sewer may
be issued by the Council upon recommendation of the Superintendent where such
discharge is deemed necessary or advisable for purposes of flushing, but any
permit so issued shall be subject to revocation at any time when deemed to be
in the best interests of the sewer system.
97.03 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
1.   Flammable or Explosive Material. Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil,
or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
2.   Toxic or Poisonous Materials. Any waters or wastes containing toxic or
poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or
create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant,
including but not limited to cyanides (CN) in excess of two milligrams per
liter as CN in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
3.   Corrosive Wastes. Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
4.   Solid or Viscous Substances. Solid or viscous substances in quantities or
of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not
limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
5.   Excessive B.O.D., Solids or Flow.
   A.   Any waters or wastes:
      (1)   Having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 300 parts
per million by weight; or
      (2)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended
solids; or
      (3)   Having an average daily flow greater than two percent of the
average sewage flow of the City, shall be subject to the review of the
Superintendent.
   B.   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner shall
provide, at the owner’s expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight; or
      (2)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight; or
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes.
   C.   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent, and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
97.04 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances restricted are:
1.   High Temperature. Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than
150° (65°).
2.   Fat, Oil, Grease. Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or 600
milligrams per liter of dispersed or other soluble matter.
3.   Viscous Substances. Water or wastes containing substances that may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150° (0° to 65°).
4.   Garbage. Any garbage that has not been properly shredded, that is, to such
a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions
normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half
inch in any dimension.
5.   Acids. Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solution, whether neutralized or not.
6.   Toxic or Objectionable Wastes. Any waters or wastes containing iron,
chromium, copper, zinc, and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or
wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such
material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials.
7.   Odor or Taste. Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or
odor producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits that may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of State, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
8.   Radioactive Wastes. Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life
or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable State or federal regulations.
9.   Excess Alkalinity. Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
10.   Unusual Wastes. Materials that exert or cause:
   A.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
   B.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
   C.   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
   D.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting “slugs”
as defined herein.
11.   Noxious or Malodorous Gases. Any noxious or malodorous gas or other
substance that, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, is capable
of creating a public nuisance or hazard to life or of preventing entry into
sewers for their maintenance and repair.
12.   Damaging Substances. Any waters, wastes, materials, or substances that
react with water or wastes in the sewer system to release noxious gases,
develop color of undesirable intensity, form suspended solids in objectionable
concentration, or create any other condition deleterious to structures and
treatment processes.
13.   Untreatable Wastes. Waters or wastes containing substances that are not
amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed,
or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment
plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
97.05 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES; POWERS OF SUPERINTENDENT.
If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the
public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in Section
97.04 and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
1.   Rejection. Reject the wastes by requiring disconnection from the public
sewage system;
2.   Pretreatment. Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for
discharge to the public sewers;
3.   Controls Imposed. Require control over the quantities and rates of
discharge; and/or
4.   Special Charges. Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and
treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the
provisions of
Chapter 99.
97.06 SPECIAL FACILITIES.
If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws. Where preliminary treatment or
flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
the owner’s expense.
97.07 CONTROL MANHOLES.
When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at the owner’s
expense, and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
97.08 TESTING OF WASTES.
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids analyses are obtained
from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined from
periodic grab samples.)
1.   For those contributors who contribute wastewater, the strength of which is
greater than normal domestic sewage, a surcharge in addition to the normal user
charge will be collected. The surcharge for operation and maintenance including
replacement is:
   A.   Per pound BOD
   B.   Per pound SS
2.   Any user which discharges any other pollutants which cause an increase in
the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge from the City’s wastewater
treatment facility, or any user which discharges any substance which singly or
by interaction with other substances causes identifiable increases in the cost
of operation, maintenance, or replacement of the wastewater treatment facility,
shall pay for such increased costs. The charge to each such user shall be as
determined by the responsible plant operating personnel and approved by the
Council.
CHAPTER 98
ON-SITE WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
 
98.01 When Prohibited             98.05 Discharge Restrictions
98.02 When Required               98.06 Maintenance of System
98.03 Compliance with Regulations 98.07 Systems Abandoned
98.04 Permit Required             98.08 Disposal of Septage
 
98.01 WHEN PROHIBITED.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.02 WHEN REQUIRED.
When a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of Section
95.05, every building wherein persons reside, congregate or are employed shall
be provided with an approved on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system
complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
98.03 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system shall comply with the specifications and
requirements set forth by the Iowa Administrative Code 567,
Chapter 69, and with such additional requirements as are prescribed by the
regulations of the County Board of Health.
(567 IAC 69.1[3 and 4])
98.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall install or alter an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system without first obtaining a permit from the County Board of Health.
98.05 DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.
It is unlawful to discharge any wastewater from an on-site wastewater treatment
and disposal system (except under an NPDES permit) to any ditch, stream, pond,
lake, natural or artificial waterway, drain tile or to the surface of the
ground.
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
98.06 MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
The owner of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system shall operate
and maintain the system in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to
the City.
98.07 SYSTEMS ABANDONED.
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by an on-
site wastewater treatment and disposal system, as provided in Section
95.05, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
these Sanitary Sewer chapters and the on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.08 DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE.
No person shall dispose of septage from an on-site treatment system at any
location except an approved disposal site.
CHAPTER 99
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
 
99.01 Sewer Service Charges Required 99.05 Lien for Nonpayment
99.02 Special Rates                  99.06 Deposit
99.03 Private Water Systems          99.07 Special Agreements Permitted
99.04 Payment of Bills
 
99.01 SEWER SERVICE CHARGES REQUIRED.
Each customer shall pay sewer service charges for the use of and for the
service supplied by the municipal sanitary sewer system based upon the amount
of water consumed as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
 
July 2023 Billing Cycle        Rate per 100 cu. ft.
Basic service plus 300 cu. ft. $33.316
Over 300 cu. ft.               $2.10 per 100 cu. ft. ($0.0210 per cu. ft.)
Non-metered trailers           $44.192
All sewer billing rates shall be increased by three percent on July 1, each
year to account for cost of living increases.
Each Residential User Account shall be assessed an additional monthly DNR
mandate fee of $5.00 per month.
Each Commercial User Account shall be assessed an additional monthly DNR
mandate fee of $7.50 per month.
 
Effective July 1, 2025
 
2025-2026 Fiscal Year          Rate per 100 cu. ft.
Effective July 1, 2025
Basic service plus 300 cu. ft. $35.19
Over 300 cu. ft.               $2.27 per 100 cu. ft. ($0.0227 per cu. ft.)
Non-metered trailers           $46.886
All sewer billing rates shall be increased by three percent (3%) on July 1,
each year to account for normal business cost increases.
Each Residential User Account shall be assessed an additional monthly DNR
mandate fee of $10.00 per month.
Each Commercial User Account shall be assessed an additional monthly DNR
mandate fee of $15.00 per month.
 
In no case shall the minimum service charge be less than $33.316 per month,
which is necessary to retire the indebtedness, operating and maintenance, and
reserve necessary for maintaining the sanitary sewer facility.
(Section 99.01 – Ord. 1241 – Dec. 24 Supp.)
99.02 SPECIAL RATES.
Where, in the judgment of the Superintendent and the Council, special
conditions exist to the extent that the application of the sewer charges
provided in Section
99.01 would be inequitable or unfair to either the City or the customer, a
special rate shall be proposed by the Superintendent and submitted to the
Council for approval by resolution.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.03 PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS.
Customers whose premises are served by a private water system shall pay sewer
charges based upon the water used as determined by the City either by an
estimate agreed to by the customer or by metering the water system at the
customer’s expense. Any negotiated or agreed-upon sales or charges shall be
subject to approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.04 PAYMENT OF BILLS.
All sewer service charges are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section
92.04 of this Code of Ordinances. Sewer service may be discontinued or
disconnected in accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
99.05 LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.07 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof shall be jointly and severally liable for sewer
service charges to the premises. Sewer service charges remaining unpaid and
delinquent shall constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and
shall be certified by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the
same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.06 DEPOSIT.
There shall be required from every customer not the owner of the premises
served a $100.00 deposit intended to guarantee the payment of bills for
service.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.07 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS PERMITTED.
No statement in these chapters shall be construed as preventing a special
agreement, arrangement, or contract between the Council, and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted subject to special conditions, rate, and cost as established by the
Council.
CHAPTER 99A
UTILITY IMPROVEMENT FUND
 
99A.01 Utility Improvement Fund 99A.02 Utility Improvement Rate or Fee
 
99A.01   UTILITY IMPROVEMENT FUND.
Each customer who receives a combined utility account will be assessed an
identically calculated monthly fee, said funds to be maintained in a separate
fund to be used for water and sanitary sewer infrastructure additions, repair,
replacement, and/or potential bond payments related to same.
99A.02   UTILITY IMPROVEMENT RATE OR FEE.
Each customer who receives a combined utility account shall be assessed a
monthly fee for the reasons set out in Section
99A.01, calculated as follows: †
1.   All combined utility accounts shall be assessed a base fee of $2.75 which
covers water usage of up to 300 cubic feet.
2.   All combined utility accounts shall be assessed the additional fee of
$0.0065 per cubic foot of water usage in excess of 300 cubic feet.
(Chapter 99A – Ord. 1244 – May 25 Supp.)
 
Notes
EDITOR’S NOTE:  Ordinance No. 1244 adopted on May 19, 2025, and published on
  May 28, 2025, has an effective date of July 1, 2025.
CHAPTER 100
STORM WATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM DISTRICT UTILITY
 
100.01 Purpose                             100.04 Rates
100.02 Definitions                         100.05 Payment of Bills
100.03 Stormwater Drainage System District 100.06 Lien for Nonpayment
Established
 
100.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish a Stormwater Drainage System
District Utility and provide a means of funding the construction, operation,
and maintenance of stormwater management facilities including, but not limited
to, detention and retention basins, stormwater sewers, inlets, ditches and
drains, curb and gutter, and cleaning of streets. The Council finds that the
construction, operation, and maintenance of the City’s storm and surface water
drainage system should be funded through charging users of property which may
connect or discharge directly, or indirectly, into the storm and surface water
drainage system.
100.02 DEFINITIONS.
The following words and phrases whenever used in the ordinances of the City,
shall be construed as defined in this section unless, from the context, a
different meaning is intended or unless different meaning is specifically
defined and more particularly directed to the use of such words or phrases:
1.   “Connection” means the physical act or process of tapping a public
stormwater sewer or drainage line, or joining onto an existing side sewer, for
the purpose of connecting private impervious surface or other storm and surface
water sources or systems to the public storm and surface water system. It also
includes creation or maintenance of impervious surface that causes or is likely
to cause an increase in the quantity or decrease in quality or both from the
natural state of stormwater runoff, and which drains, directly or indirectly,
to the storm and surface water system.
2.   “Storm and surface water drainage system” means any combination of
publicly owned storm and surface water quantity and quality facilities,
pumping, or lift facilities, storm and secondary drain pipes and culverts, curb
and gutter, open channels, creeks and ditches, force mains, laterals, manholes,
catch basins and inlets, including grates and covers thereof, detention and
retention facilities, laboratory facilities and equipment, and any other
publicly owned facilities for the collection, conveyance, treatment and
disposal of the storm and surface water system within the City, to which
sanitary sewage flows are not intentionally admitted.
3.   “Unit” means each household, each place of commerce, education,
government, religion, or each industry, whether in a single building on a
single lot or in a multiple use building on a single lot or multiple lot
complex. Each unit shall be charged individually, but where the complex is
billed under one combined service account, the recipient of that bill shall be
deemed the user and receive the total combined stormwater drainage system
district charge for that complex.
4.   “User” means any person who uses property that maintains connection to,
discharges to, or otherwise receives services from the City for stormwater
management. The occupant of occupied property is deemed the user. If the
property is not occupied, the person who has the right to occupy it shall be
deemed the user.
100.03 STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM DISTRICT ESTABLISHED.
Pursuant to the authority of Section 384.84(5) of the Code of Iowa, the entire
City is hereby declared a Stormwater Drainage System District for the purpose
of establishing, imposing, adjusting, and providing for the collection of rates
for the operation and maintenance of stormwater management facilities. The
entire City, as increased from time to time by annexation, shall constitute a
single Stormwater Drainage System District.
100.04 RATES.
Each user shall pay for storm and surface waste drainage system service
provided by the City. The rates for the operation and maintenance of the
stormwater management facilities shall be collected by imposing a monthly rate
on each residential, commercial, and industrial user within the City. The
Council may adopt rules, charges, rates, and fees for the use of the City’s
storm and surface water system, and for services provided by the City relating
to that system. Such rules may include delinquency and interest charges and
penalties. Such charges and fees shall be just and equitable based upon the
actual cost of operation, maintenance, acquisition, extension, and replacement
of the City’s system and the cost of bond repayment, regulation,
administration, and services of the City. The rates for the foregoing functions
shall be collected by imposing monthly rates as follows:
 
July 2023 July 2024 July 2025 July 2026 July 2027
$4.62     $4.76     $4.90     $5.50     $5.20
$8.66     $8.92     $9.19     $9.47     $9.75
$17.91    $18.45    $19.00    $19.57    $20.16
 
100.05 PAYMENT OF BILLS.
All stormwater service charges are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section
92.04 of this Code of Ordinances. Stormwater service may be discontinued or
disconnected in accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
100.06 LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.07 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof shall be jointly and severally liable for stormwater
service charges to the premises. Stormwater service charges remaining unpaid
and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and
shall be certified by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the
same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
CHAPTER 105
SOLID WASTE CONTROL
 
105.01 Purpose                           105.08 City Leaf Pickup Program
105.02 Definitions                       105.09 Littering Prohibited
105.03 Sanitary Disposal Required        105.10 Toxic and Hazardous Waste
105.04 Health and Fire Hazard            105.11 Waste Storage Containers
105.05 Open Burning Restricted           105.12 Prohibited Practices
105.06 Separation of Yard Waste Required 105.13 Sanitary Disposal Project
                                         Designated
105.07 Brush Pickup                      105.14 Penalties
 
105.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters in this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Solid
Waste Control and Collection is to provide for the sanitary storage,
collection, and disposal of solid waste and, thereby, to protect the citizens
of the City from such hazards to their health, safety, and welfare as may
result from the uncontrolled disposal of solid waste.
105.02 DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters the following terms are defined:
1.   “Backyard burning” means the disposal of residential waste by open burning
on the premises of the property where such waste is generated.
2.   “Chimney” or “stack” means any flue, conduit, or duct permitting the
discharge or passage of air contaminants into the open air or constructed or
arranged for this purpose.
3.   “Collector” means any person authorized to gather solid waste from public
and private places.
4.   “Discard” means to place, cause to be placed, throw, deposit, or drop.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[1])
5.   “Dwelling unit” means any room or group of rooms located within a
structure and forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used or
are intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
6.   “Family unit” or “unity” means one or more connected rooms having complete
kitchen facilities and arranged, designed, or used as living quarters for one
family only.
7.   “Food scraps” means solid, semisolid, and liquid animal and vegetable
residuals resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing, serving,
and consuming of food.
8.   “Garbage” means all solid and semisolid, putrescible animal and vegetable
waste resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing, serving, and
consuming of food or of material intended for use as food, and all offal,
excluding useful industrial by-products, and includes all such substances from
all public and private establishments and from all residences.
(567 IAC 100.2)
9.   “Incinerator” means a combustion apparatus designed for high temperature
operation in which solids, semisolid, liquid, or gaseous combustible refuse is
ignited and burned efficiently, and from which the solid residues contain
little or no combustible material.
10.   “Landscape waste” means any vegetable or plant waste except garbage. The
term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves,
grass, shrubbery, and yard trimmings.
(567 IAC 20.2)
11.   “Litter” means any garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, waste materials, or
debris not exceeding 10 pounds in weight or 15 cubic feet in volume. Litter
includes but is not limited to empty beverage containers, cigarette butts, food
waste packaging, other food or candy wrappers, handbills, empty cartons, or
boxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[2])
12.   “Multiple-family dwelling” means a structure containing more than one
dwelling unit.
13.   “Odor” means that which produces a response of the human sense of smell
to an odorous substance.
14.   “Open burning” means any burning of combustible materials where the
products of combustion are emitted into the open air without passing through a
chimney or stack.
15.   “Operator” means the person or agency authorized to conduct disposal
operations at a public sanitary disposal project or licensed private sanitary
disposal project.
16.   “Owner” means, in addition to the record titleholder, any person residing
in, renting, leasing, occupying, operating, or transacting business in any
premises, and as between such parties the duties, responsibilities,
liabilities, and obligations hereinafter imposed shall be joint and several.
17.   “Particulate matter” means any material, except uncombined water, that
exists in a finely divided form as a liquid or solid at standard conditions.
18.   “Processing facility” means an incinerator, baler, shredder, or similar
facility or process employed to reduce the volume of, or change the
characteristics of, solid waste prior to final disposal.
19.   “Property served” means any property which is being used or occupied and
is eligible to receive solid waste or recycling collection and disposal service
as provided herein, including commercial and industrial properties.
20.   “Recycling facility” means any facility employing a technology that is a
process that separates or recovers reusable materials that can be sold or
reused by a manufacturer as substitute for or a supplement to virgin raw
materials.
21.   “Refuse” means putrescible and non-putrescible waste, including but not
limited to garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator residues, street cleanings,
market and industrial solid waste, and sewage treatment waste in dry or
semisolid form.
(567 IAC 100.2)
22.   “Resident” means in addition to any person residing in the City, any
person occupying or using any commercial, industrial, or institutional premises
within the City.
23.   “Residential premises” means a single-family dwelling and any multiple
family dwelling up to and including four separate dwelling units. Garden type
apartments and row type housing units shall be considered residential premises
regardless of the total number of such apartments or units which may be
included in a given housing development.
24.   “Residential waste” means any refuse generated on the premises as a
result of residential activities. The term includes landscape waste grown on
the premises or deposited thereon by the elements, but excludes garbage, tires,
trade wastes, and any locally recyclable goods or plastics.
(567 IAC 20.2)
25.   “Rubbish” means non-putrescible solid waste consisting of combustible and
non-combustible waste, such as ashes, paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, or litter of any kind.
(567 IAC 100.2)
26.   “Sanitary disposal” means a method of treating solid waste so that it
does not produce a hazard to the public health or safety or create a nuisance.
(567 IAC 100.2)
27.   “Sanitary disposal project” means all facilities and appurtenances
(including all real and personal property connected with such facilities) that
are acquired, purchased, constructed, reconstructed, equipped, improved,
extended, maintained, or operated to facilitate the final disposition of solid
waste without creating a significant hazard to the public health or safety, and
which are approved by the Director of the State Department of Natural
Resources. “Sanitary disposal project” does not include a pyrolysis or
gasification facility as defined in Section 455B.301 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
28.   “Single-family dwelling” means structure containing one dwelling unit
only.
29.   “Site” means any location, place, or tract of land used for collection,
storage, conversion, utilization, incineration, or burial of solid wastes.
30.   “Smoke” means a gas-borne particles resulting from incomplete combustion,
consisting predominantly, but not exclusively, of carbon, and other combustible
material, or ash, that form a visible plume in the air.
31.   “Solid waste” means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar discarded
solid or semisolid materials, including but not limited to such materials
resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic activities.
Solid waste may include vehicles, as defined by Section 321.1 of the Code of
Iowa. Solid waste does not include any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
   A.   Hazardous waste regulated under the Federal Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6921-6934.
   B.   Hazardous waste as defined in Section 455B.411 of the Code of Iowa,
except to the extent that rules allowing for the disposal of specific wastes
have been adopted by the State Environmental Protection Commission.
   C.   Source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined in the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended to January 1, 1979.
   D.   Petroleum contaminated soil that has been remediated to acceptable
State or federal standards.
   E.   Steel slag which is a product resulting from the steel manufacturing
process and is managed as an item of value in a controlled manner and not as a
discarded material.
   F.   Material that is legitimately recycled pursuant to Section 455D.4A of
the Code of Iowa.
   G.   Post-use polymers or recoverable feedstocks that are any of the
following:
      (1)   Processed at a pyrolysis or gasification facility.
      (2)   Held at a pyrolysis or gasification facility prior to processing to
ensure production is not interrupted.
32.   “Standard conditions” means a gas temperature of 70° F and a gas pressure
of 29.92 inches of mercury absolute.
33.   “Toxic and hazardous waste” means waste materials, including (but not
limited to) poisons, pesticides, herbicides, acids, caustics, pathological
waste, flammable or explosive materials, and similar harmful waste that
requires special handling and that must be disposed of in such a manner as to
conserve the environment and protect the public health and safety.
(567 IAC 100.2)
34.   “Trade waste” means any refuse resulting from the prosecution of any
trade, business, industry, commercial venture (including farming and ranching),
or utility or service activity, and any governmental or institutional activity,
whether or not for profit.
35.   “Yard waste” means any debris such as grass clippings, leaves, garden
waste, brush, and trees. Yard waste does not include tree stumps.
105.03 SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
It is the duty of each owner to provide for the sanitary disposal of all refuse
accumulating on the owner’s premises before it becomes a nuisance. Any such
accumulation remaining on any premises for a period of more than 30 days shall
be deemed a nuisance and the City may proceed to abate such nuisances in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 50 or by initiating proper action in district court.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 657)
105.04 HEALTH AND FIRE HAZARD.
It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any premises, improved
or vacant, or on any public place, such quantities of solid waste that
constitute a health, sanitation, or fire hazard.
105.05 OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED.
No person shall allow, cause, or permit open burning of combustible materials
where the products of combustion are emitted into the open air without passing
through a chimney or stack, except that open burning is permitted in the
following circumstances:
(567 IAC 23.2 and 100.2)
1.   Disaster Rubbish. The open burning of rubbish, including landscape waste,
for the duration of the community disaster period in cases where an officially
declared emergency condition exists, provided that the burning of any
structures or demolished structures is conducted in accordance with 40 CFR
Section 61.145.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“a”)
2.   Trees and Tree Trimmings. The open burning of trees and tree trimmings at
a City-operated burning site, provided such burning is conducted in compliance
with the rules established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“b”)
3.   Recreational Fires. Open fires for coking, heating, recreation and
ceremonies; provided, however, that no person shall allow, cause, or permit,
the emissions of visible air contaminants into the atmosphere from any such
fire equal to or in excess of 40 percent capacity.
4.   Training Fires. Fires set for the purpose of conducting bona fide training
of public or industrial employees in firefighting methods, provided that the
training fires are conducted in compliance with rules established by the State
Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“g”)
5.   Controlled Burning of a Demolished Building. The controlled burning of a
demolished building by the City, subject to approval of the Council, provided
that the controlled burning is conducted in accordance with rules and
limitations established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“j”)
105.06 SEPARATION OF YARD WASTE REQUIRED.
All yard waste shall be separated by the owner or occupant from all other solid
waste accumulated on the premises and shall be composted or burned on the
premises or placed in acceptable containers, paper biodegradable bags, and set
out for collection by refuse collectors licensed by the City.
105.07 BRUSH PICKUP.
Trees limbs less than seven inches in diameter and brush securely tied in
bundles not larger than 72 inches long and 78 inches in diameter may be placed
along the curb for collection by the City in accordance with the City’s brush
removal policy as may be from time to time amended.
105.08 CITY LEAF PICKUP PROGRAM.
The City shall conduct a program in the fall of each year to remove leaves from
City streets. Residents of the City will be required to compost as many leaves
from their property as possible. Leaves that cannot be composted may be raked
onto the City streets. Leaves shall not be bagged or placed into any
containers. The City shall remove the leaves and deposit them at a composting
site.
105.09 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
No person shall discard any litter onto or in any water or land, except that
nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authorized collection
and discarding of such litter in or on areas or receptacles provided for such
purpose. When litter is discarded from a motor vehicle, the driver of the motor
vehicle shall be responsible for the act in any case where doubt exists as to
which occupant of the motor vehicle actually discarded the litter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.363)
105.10 TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS WASTE.
No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for
collection any toxic or hazardous waste. Such materials shall be transported
and disposed of as prescribed by the Director of the State Department of
Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 100.2)
(567 IAC 102.13[2] and 400 IAC 27.14[2])
105.11 WASTE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing, or renting any premises,
dwelling unit or any place where refuse accumulates shall provide and at all
times maintain in good order and repair portable containers for refuse in
accordance with the following:
1.   Residential The City shall provide for the collection of solid waste and
recyclable materials from single-family to four-family residential properties
only. The owners or operators of multi-family, commercial, industrial, or
institutional premises shall provide for the collection of solid waste and
recyclable materials produced upon such premises. However, the Council may,
upon separate application and consideration therefor, include certain multi-
family residential premises in the City collection service under the terms and
conditions placed thereon. The City shall conduct a competitive bid process to
contract with a waste hauling/recycling service provider for the collection of
solid waste and recyclable materials.
2.   Commercial. Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing or renting
any commercial premises where excessive amounts of refuse accumulates and where
its storage in portable containers as required above is impractical, shall
maintain metal bulk storage containers approved by the City.
3.   Location of containers. Residential sold waste containers shall be stored
upon the residential premises. Commercial solid waste containers shall be
stored upon private property, unless the owner shall have been granted written
permission from the City to use public property for such purposes. The storage
site shall be well drained, fully accessible to collection equipment, public
health personnel and fire inspection personnel.
4.   Non-conforming containers. Solid waste containers which are not adequate
will be collected together with their contents and disposed of after due notice
to the owner.
105.12 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
It is unlawful for any person to:
1.   Unlawful Use of Containers. Deposit refuse in any solid waste containers
not owned by such person without the written consent of the owner of such
containers.
2.   Interfere with Collectors. Interfere in any manner with solid waste
collection equipment or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance
of their duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors be those of the
City, or those of any other authorized waste collection service.
3.   Unlawful Disposal. Dispose of any refuse at any facility or location which
is not an approved location.
4.   Unlawful Collection. Engage in the business of collecting, transporting,
processing or disposing of refuse with the City without a contract therefore
with the City or a valid permit from the City.
5.   Incinerators. Burn rubbish or garbage except in incinerators designed for
high temperature operation, in which solid, semisolid, liquid, or gaseous
combustible refuse is ignited and burned efficiently, and from which the solid
residues contain little or no combustible material, as acceptable to the
Environmental Protection Commission.
6.   Scavenging. Take or collect any solid waste that has been placed out for
collection on any premises, unless such person is an authorized solid waste
collector.
105.13 SANITARY DISPOSAL PROJECT DESIGNATED.
The sanitary landfill facilities operated by Jackson County are hereby
designated as the official “Public Sanitary Disposal Project” for the disposal
of solid waste produced or originating within the City.
105.14 PENALTIES.  
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a simple misdemeanor or may be cited for a municipal
infraction.  Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 106
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
 
106.01 Collection Service         106.07 Contract Requirements
106.02 City to Provide Collection 106.08 Collector’s License
Containers
106.03 Loading of Containers      106.09 Collection Fees
106.04 Frequency of Collection    106.10 Lien for Nonpayment
106.05 Bulky Rubbish              106.11 Landfill Assessment Fee
106.06 Right of Entry             106.12 Private Sanitary Disposal Project
 
106.01 COLLECTION SERVICE.
The City shall provide for the collection of solid waste and recyclable
materials from single-family to four-family residential properties only. The
owners or operators of multi-family, commercial, industrial, or institutional
premises shall provide for the collection of solid waste and recyclable
materials produced upon such premises. However, the Council may, upon separate
application and consideration, therefore, include certain multi-family
residential premises in the City collection service under the terms and
conditions placed thereon. The City shall conduct a competitive bid process to
contract with a waste hauling/recycling service provider for the collection of
solid waste and recyclable materials.
106.02 CITY TO PROVIDE COLLECTION CONTAINERS.
Containers, vessels, or vehicles used for the collection and transportation of
garbage and similar putrescible waste or solid waste, or recyclable materials,
containing such materials shall be leakproof, durable, and of easily cleanable
construction. They shall be cleaned to prevent nuisances, pollution, or insect
breeding and shall be maintained in good repair. Each unit shall be provided
with an initial container, and additional recycling containers, at no
individual cost. However, any container that is lost, stolen, damaged, or
otherwise does not meet the standards set forth above, will be replaced at the
property owner’s expense.
106.03 LOADING OF CONTAINERS.
Containers, vessels, or vehicles used for the collection and transportation of
any solid waste or recyclable materials shall be loaded and moved in such a
manner that the contents will not fall, leak, or spill therefrom, and shall be
covered to prevent blowing or loss of material. Where spillage does occur, the
material shall be picked up immediately by the collector or transporter and
returned to the vehicle or container and the area properly cleaned. Solid waste
that does not fit within a container, or excess bagged solid waste, shall be
treated as bulky rubbish as defined below.
106.04 FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
Each unit shall be assigned a day of the week for collection, to be determined
by the City and the waste hauling service provider. Each unit shall be
responsible for placing the container(s) out for collection at the start of the
day and take in the container(s) at the end of the day. The container(s) shall
be placed adjacent to the street or the same will not be collected. A property
owner may temporarily halt collection for a unit during a period the unit so
serviced is not used for human occupancy or during extended residential
absence. Any customer desiring to temporarily halt collection for a unit must
make a written request to the City, otherwise, the property owner shall remain
liable for the service rendered until said notice is received by the City.
106.05 BULKY RUBBISH.
Bulky rubbish which is too large or heavy to be collected in the normal manner
of the solid waste shall be collected by the collector upon request in
accordance with procedures established by resolution of the Council. Solid
waste abandoned at the curbside in a manner contrary to the regular
requirements of the collection program, including bulky rubbish placed on dates
and times other than those designated by resolution, which will be subject to
immediate removal and disposal by the City or its authorized collector, with
abatement costs billed to the property owner. Such removal and disposal is in
addition to and shall not exclude other remedies available to the City for
abatement of nuisances in
Chapter 50 of this code of ordinances.
106.06 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
Solid waste collectors are hereby authorized to enter upon private property for
the purpose of collecting solid waste, as required by this chapter; however,
solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling units or other residential
buildings.
106.07 CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.
No person shall engage in the business of collecting, transporting, processing
or disposing of solid waste from residential premises for the City without
first entering into a contract with the City. This section does not prohibit an
owner from transporting solid waste accumulating upon premises owned, occupied
or used by such owner, provided such refuse is disposed of properly in an
approved sanitary disposal project. Furthermore, a contract is not required for
the removal, hauling, or disposal of earth and rock material from grading or
excavation activities, provided that all such materials are conveyed in tight
vehicles, trucks or receptacles so constructed and maintained that none of the
material being transported is spilled upon any public right-of-way.
106.08 COLLECTOR’S LICENSE.
No person shall engage in the business of collecting, transporting, processing
or disposing of solid waste other than waste produced by that person within the
City without first obtaining from the City an annual license in accordance with
the following:
1.   Application. Application for a solid waste collector’s license shall be
made to the Clerk and provide the following:
   A.   Name and Address. The full name and address of the applicant, and if a
corporation, the names and addresses of the officers thereof.
   B.   Equipment. A complete and accurate listing of the number and type of
collection and transportation equipment to be used.
   C.   Collection Program. A complete description of the frequency, routes and
method of collection and transportation to be used.
   D.   Disposal. A statement as to the precise location and method of disposal
or processing facilities to be used.
2.   Insurance. No collector’s license shall be issued until and unless the
applicant, in addition to all other requirements set forth, shall file and
maintain with the City evidence of satisfactory public liability insurance
covering all operations of the applicant pertaining to such business and all
equipment and vehicles to be operated in the conduct thereof in the following
minimum amounts:
   A.   Curbside Collection Service:
      Cleanup Service (Includes solid waste and recycling)
      Bodily Injury:   $1,000,000.00 per person.
            $1,000,000.00 per occurrence.
      Property Damage:   $ 200,000.00
   B.   General.
      Cleanup Service (Includes solid waste and recycling)
      Bodily Injury:   $500,000.00 per person.
            $500,000.00 per occurrence.
      Property Damage:   $200,000.00
Each insurance policy required hereunder shall include as a part thereof
provisions requiring the insurance carrier to notify the City of the
expiration, cancellation, or other termination of coverage not less than 10
days prior to the effective date of such action.
3.   License Fee. A license fee in the amount of $75.00 shall accompany the
application. In the event the requested license is not granted, the fee paid
shall be refunded to the applicant.
4.   License Issued. If the Council upon investigation finds the application to
be in order and determines that the applicant will collect, transport, process,
or dispose of solid waste without hazard to the public health or damage to the
environment and in conformity with law and ordinance, the requested license
shall be issued to be effective for a period of one year from the date
approved.
5.   License Renewal. An annual license may be renewed simply upon payment of
the required fee, provided the applicant agrees to continue to operate in
substantially the same manner as provided in the original application, and
provided the applicant furnishes the Clerk with a current listing of vehicles,
equipment, and facilities in use.
6.   License Not Transferable. No license authorized by this chapter may be
transferred to another person.
7.   Owner May Transport. Nothing herein is to be construed so as to prevent
the owner from transporting solid waste accumulating upon premises owned,
occupied or used by such owner, provided such refuse is disposed of properly in
an approved sanitary disposal project.
8.   Grading or Excavation Excepted. No license or permit is required for the
removal, hauling, or disposal of earth and rock material from grading or
excavation activities; however, all such materials shall be conveyed in tight
vehicles, trucks or receptacles so constructed and maintained that none of the
material being transported spills upon any public right-of-way.
9.   Builders Exempted. No license or permit shall be required for the removal,
hauling, or disposal of building materials from construction activities,
however, all such materials shall be conveyed in light vehicles, trucks, or
receptacles so constructed and maintained that none of the materials being
transported shall spill upon the public right-of-way.
106.09 COLLECTION FEES.
The collection and disposal of solid waste as provided by this chapter are
declared to be beneficial to the property served or eligible to be served and
there shall be levied and collected fees for the same, in accordance with the
following:
(Goreham vs. Des Moines, 1970, 179 NW 2nd, 449 [Iowa 1970])
1.   Schedule of Fees. The fees for solid waste collection and/or recyclable
materials and disposal service, used or available, are:
 
MONTHLY GARBAGE AND RECYCLING RATES
EFFECTIVE DATE SMALL CONTAINER LARGE CONTAINER DUMPSTER
9/19/2023      $17.73          $18.93          $63.65
9/19//2024     $18.26          $19.50          $65.56
9/19/2025      $18.81          $20.08          $67.53
Rates will increase up to 3 percent annually in September for October
billing.
 
2.   Payment of Bills. All fees are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section
92.04. Solid waste collection service may be discontinued in accordance with
the provisions contained in Section
92.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
106.10 LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.07 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof are jointly and severally liable for fees for solid
waste collection and disposal. Fees remaining unpaid and delinquent shall
constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and shall be certified
by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as
property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
106.11 LANDFILL ASSESSMENT FEE.
In order to collect sufficient revenues to pay the annual assessment for the
operation of the County Sanitary Landfill, the Clerk shall collect a monthly
fee of $2.84 from every residential dwelling unit, commercial business, and
industry located within the City effective the July 1, 1998, billing period.
The billing and collection of landfill assessment fees, including the
collection of delinquent accounts and the perfection of liens on property for
delinquent accounts, shall be governed by the procedures of Section 384.84 of
the Code of Iowa.
106.12 PRIVATE SANITARY DISPOSAL PROJECT.
No person may establish and operate a private sanitary disposal project within
the City.
CHAPTER 110
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
110.01 Grant of Franchise              110.13 Franchise Fee
110.02 Term                            110.14 Evidence of Insurance and Bond
110.03 Governing Rules and Regulations 110.15 Assignment
110.04 Non-Exclusive Grant             110.16 Indemnification
110.05 Regulation by City              110.17 Default
110.06 Home Rule                       110.18 Violations and Penalties
110.07 Eminent Domain                  110.19 Force Majeure
110.08 Placement of Facilities         110.20 Severability
110.09 Construction and Excavation by  110.21 Confidentiality
Company
110.10 Technological and Regulatory    110.22 Notices
Changes
110.11 Provision for Inadequate Energy 110.23 Enactment
Supplies
110.12 Complaint Records
 
110.01 GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
There is hereby granted to Black Hills/Iowa Gas Utility Company, LLC d/b/
a Black Hills Energy, a Delaware corporation, its successors and assigns
(“Company”), the right, franchise, and privilege to acquire, construct,
operate, and maintain in the City of Maquoketa, Iowa (“City”), as provided
herein, the necessary facilities for the distribution, transportation,
supplying, and sale of natural gas for public and private use and to construct
and maintain over, upon, across, and under the streets, highways, avenues,
alleys, bridges, and public places the necessary facilities, fixtures, and
equipment for such purposes. † 5
 
Notes
5 †  EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 1124, adopting a natural gas franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on November 2, 2015.
110.02 TERM.
The franchise granted hereunder shall remain in effect for a period of 10 years
from the effective date of this chapter (the “Initial Term”); provided,
however, that the franchise shall be automatically renewed for an additional
10-year period after the expiration of the Initial Term (the “First Renewal
Term”), if: (i) not more than one year or less than 180 days prior to the
expiration of the Initial Term, the Company notifies the City, in writing, that
the franchise will automatically renew for an additional 10-year period unless
the Company receives written notice from the City, at least 60 days prior to
the expiration of the Initial Term, that the City desires to terminate the
franchise at the expiration of the Initial Term; and (ii) the Company does not
receive written notice from the City, at least 60 days prior to the expiration
of the Initial Term that the City desires to terminate the franchise at the
expiration of the Initial Term. The effective date of this chapter shall be
determined pursuant to State law.
110.03 GOVERNING RULES AND REGULATIONS.
This chapter is granted subject to all conditions, limitations, and immunities
now provided for, or as hereafter amended, and applicable to the operations of
a public utility, by local, State, or federal law. The rates to be charged by
the Company for service within the present or future corporate limits of the
City and the rules and regulations regarding the character, quality, and
standards of service to be furnished by the Company shall be under the
jurisdiction and control of such regulatory body or bodies as may, from time to
time, be vested by law with authority and jurisdiction over the rates,
regulations, and quality and standards of service to be supplied by the Company
provided, however, should any judicial, regulatory or legislative body, having
proper jurisdiction, take any action that precludes the Company from recovering
from its customers any cost associated with services provided hereunder or has
a material negative economic impact on the Company or the City, or a provision
of this franchise is declared illegal, unconstitutional or void by a court or
other property authority, then the Company and the City shall attempt to
renegotiate this franchise in good faith in accordance with the action taken in
order to comply with the action taken and to attempt to restore the respective
benefits of this bargain. In determining the rights and duties of the Company,
the terms of this franchise shall take precedence over any conflicting terms or
requirements contained in any other ordinance enacted by the City.
110.04 NON-EXCLUSIVE GRANT.
This franchise shall not be exclusive and shall not restrict in any manner the
right of the Council or any other governing body of the City in the exercise of
any governmental power which it may have or hereafter be authorized or
permitted by laws of the State.
110.05 REGULATION BY CITY.
The City reserves to itself the right to make reasonable regulation of the
Company’s use of streets or other public property. The Company agrees, for and
on behalf of itself, its lessees, successors and assigns, that all authority
and rights under this chapter shall at all times be subject to all rights,
power, and authority now or hereafter possessed by the City to regulate the
manner in which the Company shall use the streets, alleys, bridges, and public
places of the City and concerning the manner in which the Company shall use and
enjoy the franchise granted herein.
110.06 HOME RULE.
This chapter is intended to be and shall be construed as consistent with the
reservation of local authority contained in Article III Section 38A of the Iowa
Constitution granting cities and municipalities home rule powers. To such end
any limitation on the power of the City contained herein is to be strictly
construed and the City reserves to itself the right to exercise all power and
authority to regulate and control its local affairs and all ordinances and
regulations of the City shall be enforceable against the Company unless, and
only to the extent, they are irreconcilable with any rights granted the Company
under this chapter or conflict with applicable State law.
110.07 EMINENT DOMAIN.
The City is granted the right to exercise powers of eminent domain and may, in
appropriate circumstances for the purposes of distribution, transportation, or
supply of natural gas by Company, delegate such authority to the Company, by
resolution; provided, however, that nothing contained herein shall prohibit the
Company from acting independently to appropriate and condemn private property,
as necessary, for the purposes of distribution, transportation, supplying, and
sale of natural gas by Company, if permitted to do so under State law.
110.08 PLACEMENT OF FACILITIES.
The facilities, fixtures, and equipment for the distribution, transportation,
supplying, and sale of natural gas within the City shall be placed and
maintained so as not to unnecessarily or unreasonably interfere with the travel
on the streets, highways, avenues, alleys, bridges, and public places in the
City, nor shall such facilities, fixtures, and equipment unnecessarily or
unreasonably interfere with the proper use of the same, including ordinary
drainage, or with the sewers, underground pipe or other property of the City.
In the event that facilities, fixtures, and equipment of the Company located
within a public right-of-way must be relocated because of paving, road
construction, or road reconstruction, sewer construction or sewer
reconstruction, or the construction or reconstruction of public drainage
systems or similar public works or the construction or reconstruction of the
facilities of any City owned utility, such relocation, at the written request
of and upon reasonable notice from the City, shall be completed by the Company
at its cost in a manner so as to conform to the established grade of the line
of the street or public place and so as not to interfere with the public
improvement so constructed or reconstructed; provided, however, that the
Company shall not be obligated to undertake such relocation unless and until
the City provides an alternative location for the Company’s facilities,
fixtures, or equipment. If the City requests the Company to relocate its
facilities, fixtures, or equipment for the primary benefit of a commercial or
private project, or as a result of the initial request of a commercial or
private developer or other non-public entity, the Company shall not be
obligated to comply with such request until it receives payment for the cost of
such relocation as a precondition to relocating its facilities, fixtures, or
equipment. The City shall upon request of the Company: review any plans for the
construction of facilities, fixtures, and equipment within the public right-of-
way and advise the Company of any conflict such construction may have with
planned or anticipated public improvements, but failure of the City to so
advise the Company will not relieve the Company of its obligations under this
section. In placing, constructing, or installing its facilities, fixtures, and
equipment for the distribution, supplying, and sale of natural gas within the
City, the Company shall observe sound engineering practices, and its
engineering designs and facility placements, construction and installation
shall comply with applicable industry standards, including industry safety
standards, generally accepted at the time of placement.
110.09 CONSTRUCTION AND EXCAVATION BY COMPANY.
1.   In accordance with requirements of complying with local, State, or federal
law set forth in Section
110.03, “Governing Rules and Regulations,” a written permit will be obtained
from the City Manager whenever it becomes necessary for the Company to excavate
in streets or public grounds of the City. An exception to a requirement for a
permit shall be made in cases of emergency involving public safety, in which
case a permit will be obtained at the earliest opportunity after the work has
started.
2.   In making excavations in the streets, the Company shall proceed with such
work as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the public. The Company
shall properly protect, according to safety standards generally accepted at the
time of placement, all excavations and obstructions by proper shoring, surface
plates, barricades, warning lights and such other or additional devices as
circumstances may warrant.
3.   Immediately after use, any trenches for excavations which the Company has
opened shall be filled. Temporary street surfacing will be placed in such
excavations as soon as the same has been backfilled. Pavements, sidewalks,
curb, and gutters or other portions of streets and public places opened,
disturbed, or damaged by Company shall be promptly restored and replaced with
like materials by the Company at its own expense and left in as good a
condition as before. In such cases, any sidewalk or other replacement will be
replaced so as to comply with current requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act and other applicable laws. In the event that the Company fails
to comply with the provisions of this section, after having been given
reasonable notice, the City may do such works as may be needed to properly
repair such pavements, sidewalks, curb and gutters or other portions of streets
and public places and the reasonable cost thereof shall be repaid to the City
by the Company. In cases where a cut or disturbance is made in a section of
street paving or sidewalks, but causes greater disturbance than to simply the
area cut, rather than replace only the area cut, the Company shall replace that
area stipulated by the City Manager which in no event shall exceed the panel or
panels disturbed.
4.   The City may, at its discretion and at its own expense, assign personnel
for inspection of excavation and related work being performed by the Company.
Should the Company fail or refuse to do and perform the things provided in this
chapter, the City may, after reasonable notice to the Company, perform the work
and charge the reasonable expense thereof to the Company, and the Company shall
promptly pay said charges.
110.10 TECHNOLOGICAL AND REGULATORY CHANGES.
The parties recognize that over the duration of this franchise both
technological and regulatory changes will take place which will impact the
enforceability of this chapter or parts of it. In recognition of such factors
the parties agree that in the event portions of this chapter which are now, or
in the future, found or declared inapplicable or unenforceable, become through
a subsequent change in law or technology again to be applicable or enforceable,
such provisions shall be revived and again form a portion of this chapter.
110.11 PROVISION FOR INADEQUATE ENERGY SUPPLIES.
If an energy supplier is unable to furnish an adequate supply of energy due to
an emergency, an order or decision of a public regulatory body, or other acts
beyond the control of the Company, then, in accordance with procedures
promulgated by the Iowa Utilities Board and/or the Natural Gas Policy Act of
1978, 15 U.S.C. 3301 et seq., the Company shall have the right and authority to
adopt reasonable rules and regulations limiting, curtailing or allocating
extensions of service or supply of energy to any customers or prospective
customers, and withholding the supply of energy to new customers, provided that
such rules and regulations shall be uniform as applied to each class of
customers or prospective customers, and shall be non-discriminatory as between
communities receiving service from the Company.
110.12 COMPLAINT RECORDS.
Upon the Company’s receipt of written and lawful request therefor from the
City, but in no event more than once annually, the Company shall provide the
City with a copy of the Company’s public record of complaints relating to the
franchise made to the Iowa Utilities Board by the Company’s customers within
the City. If any confidential customer information is requested pursuant to
this section, then the City shall comply with all applicable due process and
confidentiality protections afforded the Company or customer.
110.13 FRANCHISE FEE.
1.   In its monthly billing, the Company shall include a franchise fee of five
percent on the gross receipts from the sale of natural gas for customers within
the limits of the City. The Company shall collect from its customers located
within the corporate limits of the City as depicted on the Map (as defined
below) and pay to the City an amount equal to five percent of gross receipts
derived from the sale, distribution, or transportation of natural gas delivered
within the present limits of the City. Gross receipts as used herein are
revenues received from the sale, distribution, or transportation of natural
gas, after adjustment for the net write-off of uncollectible accounts and
corrections of bills theretofore rendered.
2.   The amount paid by the Company shall be in lieu of, and the Company shall
be exempt from, all other fees, charges, taxes, or assessments which the City
may impose for the privilege of doing business within the City, including,
without limitation, excise taxes, occupation taxes, licensing fees, or right-
of-way permit fees, and in the event the City imposes any such fee, charge,
tax, or assessment, the payment to be made by the Company in accordance with
this chapter shall be reduced in an amount equal to any such fee, charge, tax,
or assessment imposed upon the Company. Ad valorem property taxes imposed
generally upon all real and personal property within the City shall not be
deemed to affect the Company’s obligations under this chapter.
3.   The Company shall report and pay any amount payable under this chapter on
a monthly basis. Such payment shall be made no more than 30 days following the
close of the period for which payment is due. Initial and final payments shall
be prorated for the portions of the periods at the beginning and end of any
franchise granted by the City to the Company.
4.   The Company shall list the franchise fee collected from customers as a
separate item on bills for utility service issued to their customers. If at any
time the Iowa Utilities Board or other authority having proper jurisdiction
prohibits such recovery, the Company will no longer be obligated to collect and
pay the franchise fee until an alternate lawful franchise fee can be negotiated
and implemented.
5.   Within ten days of the date of the ordinance adopted and codified in this
section, the City shall provide the Company with a map of its corporate limits
(the “Map”).  † 6   The Map shall be of sufficient detail to assist the Company
in determining whether their customers reside within the City’s corporate
limits. The Map along with the Company’s Geographic Information System (“GIS”)
mapping information shall serve as the sole basis for determining the Company’s
obligation hereunder to collect and pay the franchise fee from customers;
provided, however, that if the City’s corporate limits are changed by
annexation or otherwise, it shall be the City’s sole responsibility to (i)
update the Map so that such changes are included therein, and (ii) provide the
updated Map to the Company. The Company’s obligation to collect and pay the
franchise fee from customers within an annexed area shall not commence until
the later: (i) of 60 days after the Company’s receipt from the City of an
updated Map including such annexed area, or (ii) such time after such the
Company’s receipt from the City of an updated Map including such annexed area
as is reasonably necessary for the Company to identify the customers in the
annexed area obligated to pay the franchise fee.
6.   The City shall provide copies of annexation ordinances to the Company on a
timely basis to ensure appropriate franchise fee collection from customers
within the corporate limits of the City as set forth in Subsection 4 above.
7.   The City shall have access to and the right to examine, during normal
business hours, the Company’s books, receipts, files, records, and documents as
is reasonably necessary to verify the accuracy of payments due hereunder;
provided, that the City shall not exercise such right more than twice per
calendar year. If it is determined that a mistake was made in the payment of
any franchise fee required hereunder, such mistake shall be corrected promptly
upon discovery such that any under-payment by the Company shall be paid within
30 days of recalculation of the amount due, and any over-payment by the Company
shall be deducted from the next payment of such franchise fee due by the
Company to the City; provided, that neither party shall have the obligation to
correct a mistake that is discovered more than one year after the occurrence
thereof.
 
Notes
6 †  EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 1210, adopting a franchise fee for the City, was
  adopted on November 20, 2023.
110.14 EVIDENCE OF INSURANCE AND BOND.
The Company agrees to maintain insurance throughout the term of this franchise
in the following amounts to protect itself and others to whom the Company may
be held legally liable in the performance of its duties hereunder:
1.   Worker’s compensation and employer’s liability insurance providing
statutory coverage and employer’s liability limits of $1,000,000.00 bodily
injury by accident, $1,000,000.00 bodily injury by disease each employee,
$1,000,000.00 bodily injury by disease, policy limit, in compliance with the
laws of the State where all or any portion of the work is being performed.
2.   Commercial general liability insurance, with minimum limits of
$2,000,000.00 per occurrence and $4,000,000.00 general aggregate for bodily
injury and property damage.
3.   Automobile liability insurance covering liability arising out of any auto
(including owned, non-owned and hired automobiles), with a combined limit for
bodily injury and property damage of not less than $2,000,000.00 per
occurrence.
4.   Umbrella coverage in the amount of $3,000,000.00, covering excess of
employer’s liability, commercial general liability, and comprehensive
automobile liability.
5.   Any of the above coverages may be self-insured at the Company’s sole
discretion.
6.   In addition, the Company agrees to maintain a right-of-way permit bond
throughout the term of this franchise in the amount of $1,000.00.
7.   Upon request therefor from the City, but in no event less than annually,
the Company shall supply the City with: (i) a current certificate of insurance
evidencing the coverages required hereunder, and (ii) a current right-of-way
permit bond in the amount of $1000.00.
110.15 ASSIGNMENT.
No sale, assignment, or lease of this franchise shall be effective until it is
approved by the Council and until the Company has filed in the office of the
Clerk written notice of the proposed sale, transfer, disposition, or
assignment, such notice to clearly summarize the proposed procedure and the
terms and conditions thereof. Such approval by the City shall not be
unreasonably withheld. The proposed vendor, assignee or lessee shall similarly
file an instrument, duly executed, reciting such proposal, accepting the terms
of this franchise, and agreeing to perform all the conditions thereof.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City’s consent shall not be required
whenever: (i) Company has assigned its rights, duties, or obligations hereunder
to an affiliate of the Company, which affiliate has agreed to assume (pursuant
to a writing delivered to the City evidencing its ability to do so) such
rights, duties, or obligations, and the Company has agreed to remain liable for
the performance of its duties and obligations hereunder; or (ii) the Company
has assigned or pledged its rights, duties, or obligations hereunder for a
mortgage or as security for an indebtedness.
110.16 INDEMNIFICATION.
The Company shall hold the City harmless from any and all claims and actions,
litigation or damage, arising out of the passage of this chapter, out of the
construction, erection, installation, maintenance, and operation of its
properties operated by authority of this chapter within the corporate limits of
the City, or the negligence of its employees in the operation thereof,
including the court costs and reasonable attorney fees in making defense
against such claims; provided, however, that the Company shall not be liable
for the negligence of the City, it employees or agents. A copy of any process
served upon the City shall be served by the City upon the Company. The Company
shall have the right to defend in the name of the City and to employ counsel
for such purpose. No provision of this chapter is intended, or shall be
construed, to be a waiver for any purpose of any applicable State limits in
liability.
110.17 DEFAULT.
If case of failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions in this
chapter, or if the Company should do or cause to be done any act or thing
prohibited by or in violation of the terms of this chapter, the Company shall
forfeit all rights and privileges granted by this chapter and all rights
hereunder shall terminate, provided that said termination shall not take effect
until the City shall carry out proceedings in accordance with the following:
before the City proceeds to cancel this chapter, it shall first serve a written
notice upon the Company setting forth in detail in such notice the alleged
neglect or failure complained of, and the Company shall have 30 days thereafter
in which to comply with the conditions of this grant and privilege. If at the
end of such period the City deems that the conditions have not been complied
with and that this chapter is subject to repeal by reasons thereof, the City
shall enact a repealing ordinance setting out the grounds upon which said grant
and privilege is to be canceled or terminated. If within 30 days after the
effective date of said repealing ordinance the Company shall not have
instituted an action in any court of competent jurisdiction to determine
whether the Company has violated the terms of this chapter, this chapter shall
be canceled. If within such 30-day period the Company does institute an action,
as above provided, to determine whether or not the Company has violated the
terms of this chapter, and prosecutes such action to final judgment with due
diligence, then, in that event, if the court finds that this chapter is subject
to cancellation by reason of the violation of its terms, this chapter shall
terminate 30 days after such final judgment is rendered.
110.18 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
If the Company fails to comply with the requirements of this franchise, then
the City may invoke and secure compliance in accordance with
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances of the City and as authorized by Section
364.2 of the Code of Iowa.
110.19 FORCE MAJEURE.
It shall not be a breach or default under this franchise if either patty fails
to perform its obligations hereunder due to force majeure. Force majeure shall
include, but not be limited to, the following: (i) physical events such as acts
of God, landslides, lightning, earthquakes, fires, freezing, storms, floods,
washouts, explosions, breakage, or accident or necessity of repairs to
machinery, equipment, or distribution or transmission lines; (ii) acts of
others such as strikes, work-force stoppages, riots, sabotage, insurrections,
or wars; (iii) governmental actions such as necessity for compliance with any
court order, law, statute, ordinance, executive order, or regulation
promulgated by a governmental authority having jurisdiction; and any other
causes, whether of the kind herein enumerated or otherwise not reasonably
within the control of the affected party to prevent or overcome. Each party
shall make reasonable efforts to avoid force majeure and to resolve such event
as promptly as reasonably possible once it occurs in order to resume
performance; provided, however, that this provision shall not obligate a party
to settle any labor strike.
110.20 SEVERABILITY.
If any such section or provision of this chapter is held invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect the validity of any other
provisions of this chapter which can be given effect without the invalid
portion or portions and to this end each section and provision of this chapter
is severable.
110.21 CONFIDENTIALITY.
Grantor acknowledges that certain information it might request from Grantee
pursuant to this chapter may be of a proprietary and confidential nature, and
that such requests may be subject to the Homeland Security Act or other
confidentiality protections under State or federal law. If Grantee requests
that any information provided by Grantee to Grantor be kept confidential due to
its proprietary or commercial value, Grantor and its employees, agents, and
representatives shall maintain the confidentiality of such information, to the
extent allowed by law. If Grantor is requested or required by legal or
administrative process to disclose any such proprietary or confidential
information, Grantor shall promptly notify Grantee of such request or
requirement so that Grantee may seek an appropriate protective order or other
relief.
110.22 NOTICES.
All notices required or permitted under the terms of this franchise shall be in
writing and evidenced by receipt. Service of a notice may be accomplished by
facsimile, personal services, registered or certified mail (postage prepaid) or
reputable daytime or overnight delivery service. Notices shall be sent to the
parties at the following addresses:
City:
City of Maquoketa
Attn: City Manager
201 E. Pleasant St.
Maquoketa, IA 52061
Fax: 563-652-2485
 
Company:
Black Hills Energy
Attn: Community Affairs Manager
IO15 Cedar Cross Rd.
Dubuque, IA 52003
Fax: 563-583-0850
 
The Company or the City may designate a new address for itself by written
notice to the other duly given as provided herein.
110.23 ENACTMENT.
Subject to Section 364.2 of the Code of Iowa, this chapter following its
passage by the Council and its publication as provided by law, shall become
effective upon its written acceptance by the Company delivered to the Clerk and
shall effectively supersede and cancel Ordinance No. 567, being the prior
franchise held by the Company. The Company shall pay all costs of the election
and preparation of this franchise chapter.
CHAPTER 111
ELECTRIC UTILITY
 
111.01 Municipal Electric Light and Power System 111.02 Rates
 
111.01 MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER SYSTEM.
As provided in Ordinance No. 345 adopted by the Council on December 27, 1914,
and approved by the voters on December 29. 1916, a Municipal Electric Light and
Power System is hereby created and established. 7
 
Notes
7 †  EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 345, adopting an electric utility for the
  City, was passed and adopted on December 29, 1916.
111.02 RATES.
The rates for electric service shall be set by resolution of the Utility Board
of Trustees as set forth in
Chapter 23 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 112
ELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION
 
112.01 Purpose     112.04 Compliance
112.02 Scope       112.05 Construction Standards
112.03 Definitions 112.06 Duties of a Company
 
112.01 PURPOSE.
In order to protect the public health, safety, and welfare, to promote a
pleasing aesthetic appearance, and to facilitate the provision of City
services, it is the purpose of this chapter to regulate within the City the
construction, operation, and maintenance of facilities for the transmission and
distribution of electricity to the public for compensation, and to keep the
City apprised to the operation of electric utilities within the City.
112.02 SCOPE.
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all companies, as defined in
Section
112.03.
112.03 DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When, not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number.
1.   “Company” means any individual, partnership, co-operative, business
association, or corporation owning or operating, within the corporate limits of
the City, any facilities for furnishing electricity to the public for
compensation.
2.   “Facilities” means any overhead or underground electrical transmission or
distribution line, along with related equipment and appurtenances.
3.   “Person” means an individual, partnership, co-operative, association,
organization, corporation, or any lawful successor, transferee, or assignee of
said individual, partnership, co­operative, association, organization, or
corporation.
4.   “Street” means each of the following which have been, or in the future
are, dedicated to the public, maintained under public authority, and located
within the City limits: streets, roadways, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys,
sidewalks, City-owned easements, rights-of-way, and similar public ways and
extensions and additions thereto.
5.   “Superintendent” means the Superintendent of the City Electric
Distribution System of the City.
112.04 COMPLIANCE.
It shall be unlawful for any Company to construct, operate, or maintain on City
property any facilities, or to cause the construction, operation, or
maintenance on City property of any facilities, without having fully complied
with the provisions of this chapter.
112.05 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
All Company facilities constructed, reconstructed, erected, relocated, or
repaired within the corporate limits of the City shall:
1.   When occupying City property, be located so as to cause minimum
interference with proper use of City property and to cause minimum interference
with the rights or reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin any
City property.
2.   Be located so as to provide adequate sight distances and so as not to
obstruct any traffic signals or signs. If any sight distances are inadequate or
any traffic signals or signs are obstructed, the Company shall, at no expense
to the City and in accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways, relocate either its facilities or the traffic
signals or signs.
3.   Be located at least six feet from any fire hydrant. If any facilities are
not so located the Company shall, at no expense to the City, relocate its
facilities.
4.   Be constructed so as to provide for safe underbuilding of and located so
as not to endanger or interfere with any facilities of another Company and with
any other public utilities, including, but not limited to, natural gas
pipelines, telephone wires, cable television wires, telephone or cable
television underground conduits, fire hydrants, water pipes, sanitary sewers,
and storm sewers. To these ends, the Superintendent may, after consultation
with affected persons and Companies, promulgate rules establishing utility
corridors on City property and standardized placement of public utilities
within those corridors.
5.   Be kept and maintained in a safe, adequate, and substantial condition in
accordance with all applicable federal, State, and local safety codes.
112.06 DUTIES OF A COMPANY.
1.   Safety. A Company shall at all times employ care and shall install and
maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices, as prescribed by the
Iowa Electrical Safety Code, for preventing failures and accidents which are
likely to cause damage, injuries, or nuisances to the public. Suitable
barricades, flags, lights, or other warning and protective devices shall be
used at such times and places as are reasonably required for the safety of the
members of the public.
2.   Restoration. A Company shall, at no expense to the City and in a manner
approved by the Superintendent, restore any damage to or disturbance of City
property resulting from the Company’s operations, or construction,
reconstruction, erection, relocation, or repair on the Company’s behalf, so
that the City property is in as good a condition as before the work was
commenced. The Company shall guarantee and maintain such restoration against
defective materials or workmanship for a period of two years. Because of
impending work by the City or another public utility, the Superintendent and
the Company may agree to a less stringent arrangement.
3.   Relocation. A Company shall, at no expense to the City, protect, support,
temporarily disconnect, relocate or remove temporarily or permanently, any of
its facilities when, in the opinion of the superintendent, the same is required
by reason of traffic condition, public safety, street vacation, street
construction, change or establishment of street grade, installation of storm
sewers, sanitary sewers, drains, water pipes, natural gas pipelines, power
lines, signal lines, transportation facilities, tracks, or any other types of
structure or improvements by governmental agencies whether acting in a
governmental or proprietary capacity, and any general program under which the
City shall undertake to cause all such facilities to be located underground.
4.   Location and Exposure. If requested to by the Superintendent because of
impending construction, reconstruction, or maintenance, a Company shall locate
and expose any of its underground facilities, at no cost to the City. In an
emergency situation the Company shall immediately locate and expose the
facilities. In a routine situation the Company shall locate and expose the
facilitates within 24 hours of the Superintendent’s request. No construction
permit shall be required for work under this paragraph.
5.   Moving Buildings. A Company shall, on the request of any person holding a
building moving permit issued by the City, temporarily move any of its
facilities to permit the moving of buildings. The expense of such temporary
moves shall be paid by the person requesting the same. A Company shall be given
not less than three days advance notice to arrange for such temporary moves of
its facilities.
CHAPTER 113
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
 
113.01 Franchise Granted       113.08 Acts of God
113.02 Placement of Appliances 113.09 Franchise Fee
113.03 Excavations             113.10 Term of Franchise
113.04 Relocation Required     113.11 Termination
113.05 Street Vacation         113.12 Indemnification
113.06 Vegetation Management   113.13 Home Rule Authority
113.07 Quality and Quantity    113.14 Entire Agreement
 
113.01 FRANCHISE GRANTED.
There is hereby granted to Maquoketa Valley Electric Cooperative, hereinafter
referred to as the “Company,” its successors and assigns, the right and non-
exclusive franchise to acquire, construct, reconstruct, erect, maintain, and
operate in the City of Maquoketa, Iowa, hereinafter referred to as the “City”,
works and plants for the manufacture and generation of electricity and a
distribution system for telecommunications, electric light, heat and power, and
the right to erect and maintain the necessary poles, lines, wires, conduits,
and other appliances for telecommunications or the distribution of electric
current along, under and upon the streets, alleys, and public places or public
grounds (excluding parks) in the said City to supply the City and the
inhabitants of said City with telecommunications services, electric light,
heat, and power for the period of 10 years. The franchise granted hereunder
shall remain in effect for a period of 10 years from the effective date of this
chapter (the “Initial Term”); provided, however, that the franchise shall be
automatically renewed for an additional 10 year period after the expiration of
the Initial Term (the “First Renewal Term”), if: (i) not more than one year or
less than 180 days prior to the expiration of the Initial Term, the Company
notifies the City, in writing, that the franchise will automatically renew for
an additional 10 year period unless the Company receives written notice from
the City, at least 60 days prior to the expiration of the Initial Term, that
the City desires to terminate the franchise at the expiration of the Initial
Term; and (ii) the Company does not receive written notice from the City, at
least 60 days prior to the expiration of the Initial Term that the City desires
to terminate the franchise at the expiration of the Initial Term. The effective
date of this chapter shall be determined pursuant to state law. The Company is
granted the right to exercise powers of eminent domain as provided in Section
364.2 of the Code of Iowa. At least 30 days prior to exercising its right to
eminent domain, the Company shall notify the City of its intent to exercise
such right.
113.02 PLACEMENT OF APPLIANCES.
The poles, lines, wires, circuits, cables, cabinets, and other appliances shall
be placed and maintained so as not to unnecessarily interfere with the travel
on said streets, alleys, and public places in said City nor unnecessarily
interfere with the proper use of the same, including ordinary drainage, or with
the sewers, underground pipe, and other property of the City. The said Company,
its successors and assigns shall hold the City free and harmless from all
damages to the extent arising from the negligent acts or omissions of the
Company in the erection or maintenance of said system.
113.03 EXCAVATIONS.
In making any excavations in any street, alley, or public place, Company, its
successors and assigns, shall protect the site while work is in progress by
guards, barriers or signals, shall not unnecessarily obstruct the use of the
streets, and shall back fill all openings in such manner as to prevent settling
or depressions in surface, pavement or sidewalk of such excavations with same
materials, restoring the condition as nearly as practical and if defects are
caused shall repair the same. The Company shall give reasonable advance notice
to the City before excavating in streets, avenues, alleys, or public places
within the City. In making excavations in the streets, avenues, or alleys the
Company shall proceed with such work as reasonably necessary to protect the
public. The Company shall properly protect the work, according to safety
standards generally accepted at the time of placement. As soon as reasonably
possible after use any trenches for excavations which the Company has opened
shall be filled. All backfilling in streets, avenues, or alleys will be
according to City specifications. Pavements, sidewalks, curb and gutters or
other portions of streets, avenues, or alleys opened, disturbed or damaged by
Company shall be promptly restored and replaced with like materials by the
Company at its own expense and left in as good condition as before. In the
event like replacement materials are not available, the Company shall notify
the City which must approve the use of any alternate materials. In the event
the company fails to restore the work area in accordance with this section as
promptly as is practical, the City and Company shall meet within 10 days of
written notice. If the parties agree in writing, the City may complete the work
at the expense of the company. If other entities are party to the excavation
the costs of restoration shall be apportioned to all entities using or enjoying
the benefits of the excavation. In cases where a cut or disturbance is made in
a section of street paving or sidewalks but causes greater disturbance than
simply to the area cut, rather than replace only the area cut, the Company
shall replace that area which in no event shall exceed the panel or panels
disturbed. Whenever the City shall pave or repave any street or shall change
the grade line of any street or alley or shall construct or reconstruct any
conduit, water main service or water connection, sewer or other City owned
public works, it shall be the duty of the Company, except where easements of
record are held by the Company, when so ordered by the City, to relocate its
lines and other property in the streets, avenues, or alleys at its own expense
so as to conform to the established grade or line of such street or alley and
so as not to unnecessarily interfere with the public improvements so
constructed or reconstructed. If the grade line change is being done for a
third-party project, the Company shall receive payment for the cost of such
relocation as a precondition to relocating its existing facilities or
equipment. All entities owning and operating facilities in the public right-of-
way, including City-owned and operated facilities, shall be treated in a
neutral manner.
113.04 RELOCATION REQUIRED.  
The Company shall, at its cost, locate and relocate its existing facilities or
equipment in, on, over or under any public street or alley in the City in such
a manner as the City may at any time reasonably require for the purposes of
facilitating the construction, reconstruction, maintenance or repair of the
street or alley or any public improvement thereof, in or about any such street
or alley or reasonably promoting the efficient operation of any such
improvement. If the City requires the Company to relocate facilities in the
public right-of-way that have been relocated at Company expense at the
direction of the City during the previous three years, the reasonable costs of
such relocation will be paid by the City. If the City orders or requests the
Company to relocate its existing facilities or equipment for any reason other
than as specified above, or as the result of the initial request for a
commercial, private or other non-public development, the Company shall receive
payment for the cost of such relocation as a precondition to relocating its
existing facilities or equipment. The City shall consider reasonable
alternatives in designing its public works projects so as not arbitrarily to
cause the Company unreasonable additional expense in exercising its authority
under this section. The City shall also provide a reasonable alternative
location for the Company’s facilities as part of its relocation request. Upon
reasonable request the Company shall provide the City, on a project specific
basis, information indicating the horizontal location, relative to boundaries
of the right-of-way, or all equipment which it owns or over which it has
control that is located in City right-of-way, including documents, maps, and
other information in paper or electronic or other forms (“Information”). The
Company and City recognize the Information may in whole or part be considered a
confidential record under State or federal law or both. Therefore, the City
shall not release any Information without prior consent of the Company and
shall return the Information to Company upon request. Furthermore, the City
agrees that no documents, maps or information provided to the City by the
Company shall be made available to the public or other entities if such
documents or information are exempt from disclosure under the provisions of the
Freedom of Information Act, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Critical
Energy Infrastructure requirements pursuant to 18 CFR 388.112 and 388.113, or
Chapter 22 of the Code of Iowa, as such statutes and regulations may be amended
from time to time. In the event any action at law, in equity, or administrative
is brought against the City regarding disclosure of any document which the
Company has designated as a trade secret or as otherwise protected from
disclosure, the Company shall cooperate with the City in its defense of
nondisclosure.
113.05 STREET VACATION.
At least 30 days prior to the City abandoning or vacating any street, avenue,
alley or public ground, the City shall notify the Company of any such vacation.
If the Company notifies the City within such 30-day timeframe that the Company
has electric facilities, the City shall grant the Company a utility easement
for said facilities.
113.06 VEGETATION MANAGEMENT.
The pruning and removal of trees and vegetation shall be done in accordance
with current nationally accepted safety and utility industry standards and
federal, State, and local laws, rules, and regulations. The Company is
authorized and empowered to prune or remove at Company expense any tree
extending into any street, alley, or public grounds to maintain electric grid
and telecommunications network reliability, safety, to restore utility services
and to prevent limbs, branches, or trunks from interfering with the facilities
of the Company. The pruning and removal of trees shall be performed in
accordance with Company’s then current line clearance vegetation plan as filed
and approved by the Iowa Utilities Board, as well as all applicable codes and
standards referenced therein, and any City ordinances regarding the pruning of
trees, provided such ordinances are not in conflict with Company’s line
clearance vegetation plan and are mutually agreed to in advance by both the
Company and the City.
113.07 QUALITY AND QUANTITY.
During the term of this franchise, the Company shall furnish electric energy in
the quantity and quality consistent with and in accordance with the applicable
regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board, the Company’s tariffs made effective
by the Iowa Utilities Board or its successors, and Iowa law. The Company will
maintain compliance with Iowa Utilities Board regulatory standards for
reliability.
113.08 ACTS OF GOD.
Service to be rendered by the Company under this franchise shall be continuous
unless prevented from doing so by fire, acts of God, unavoidable accidents or
casualties, or reasonable interruptions necessary to properly service the
Company’s equipment, and in such event, service shall be resumed as quickly as
is reasonably possible.
113.09 FRANCHISE FEE.
There is hereby imposed a franchise fee of five percent upon the gross revenue
generated from sales of electricity by the Company within the corporate limits
of the City. The Company shall begin collecting the franchise fee within 60
days of receipt of written approval of the required tax rider tariff from the
Iowa Utilities Board. The franchise fee shall be in lieu of any other payments
to the City for the Company’s use of streets, avenues, alleys, and public
places in the said City and other administrative or regulatory costs with
regard to said franchise; and all said facilities outlined in Section
113.01 shall be exempt from any special tax, assessment, license or rental
charge during the entire term of this chapter. The amount of the franchise fee
shall be shown separately on the utility bill to each customer. The Company
shall remit franchise fee receipts to the City no more frequently than on or
before the last business day of the month following each calendar year quarter.
The franchise fee shall be applied to all customers’ bills in accordance with
Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa, as amended, and subject to any modifications
or the repeal of same. The Company shall not grant exemptions or refunds of the
franchise fee beyond that granted by the Code of Iowa applicable at the time of
such exemption or refund. The Company shall not, under any circumstances, be
required to return or refund any franchise fees that have been collected from
customers and remitted to the City. In the event the Company is required to
provide data or information in defense of the City’s imposition of franchise
fees or the Company is required to assist the City in identifying customers or
calculating any franchise fee refunds for groups of or individual customers the
City shall reimburse the Company for the expenses incurred by the Company to
provide such data or information. Upon receipt of a final and unappealable
order or approval authorizing annexation, or changes in the City limits, the
City Clerk shall provide written notification to Company of such annexation or
change in the limits of said City, and the Company shall apply the franchise
fee to its customers who are affected by the annexation or change in the limits
of the City, commencing no later than 60 days from the effective date of the
Company receiving written notification from the City of the annexation.
113.10 TERM OF FRANCHISE.
The term of the franchise granted by this chapter and the rights granted
thereunder shall continue for the period of 10 years from and after written
acceptance by the Company, with additional renewal terms as set forth herein.
The acceptance shall be filed with the City Clerk within 90 days from passage
of this chapter. 8
 
Notes
8 †  EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 1211, adopting an electric franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on November 20, 2023.
113.11 TERMINATION.
The City expressly reserves the right to terminate the franchise granted herein
if the Company breaches any of the provisions of this franchise; provided,
however, there shall be no termination if the Company shall correct the breach
within 60 days written notice provided by the City, or if the breach is the
result of the Company’s compliance with State or federal rules, regulations, or
law.
113.12 INDEMNIFICATION.
The Company shall indemnify, defend and hold City harmless from and against any
and all claims, demands, losses, damages, cost and expenses (including, but not
limited to, court costs, fines, penalties and reasonable attorneys’ fees, but
excluding consequential or indirect damages), judgments, liabilities, and
causes of action of any nature whatsoever to the extent resulting from or
relating to its negligent acts or omissions in the use or occupancy of the
streets, avenues, alleys, and public places in the City, or arising out of the
negligent acts or omissions of its agents, employees, or contractors in
connection with same, or with respect to the violation of any laws, including
without limitation, any environmental laws. Company shall indemnify and defend
City for, from, and against any and all mechanics’ liens and other liens and
encumbrances filed by any person claiming by, through or under Company and
against all costs, expenses, losses and liabilities (including reasonable
attorneys’ fees) incurred by City in connection with any such lien or
encumbrance or any action or proceeding brought thereon. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Company shall not be obligated to defend, indemnify or hold the
City harmless for claims, demands, losses, damages, cost and expenses
(including, but not limited to, court costs, fines, penalties and reasonable
attorneys’ fees) to the extent, resulting from or relating to the negligent
acts or omissions of the City, its agents, employees, or contractors.
113.13 HOME RULE AUTHORITY.
The City reserves to itself all home rule powers and authority.
113.14 ENTIRE AGREEMENT.
This chapter sets forth and constitutes the entire agreement between the
Company and the City with respect to the rights contained herein, and may not
be supplemented, superseded, modified, or otherwise amended without the written
approval and acceptance by both the City and the Company. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, in no event shall the City enact or maintain any chapter or place
any limitations, either operationally or through the assessment of fees other
than those approved and accepted by the Company within this chapter, that
create additional burdens upon the Company, or which delay utility operations.
CHAPTER 114
ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION FRANCHISE
 
114.01 Grant                 114.08 Continuous Service
114.02 Indemnification       114.09 Non-Exclusivity
114.03 Excavation            114.10 Undergrounding
114.04 Relocation            114.11 Term of Agreement
114.05 Modern System         114.12 Future Developments
114.06 System Plans          114.13 Entire Agreement
114.07 Vegetation Management
 
114.01 GRANT.
There is hereby granted to the Company the right and franchise to acquire,
construct, reconstruct, erect, maintain, operate and remove in the City a
transmission system for electric power and the right to erect and maintain the
necessary poles, lines, wires, conduits, and other appliances, equipment and
substations for the transmission of electric current and telecommunications
(collectively, the “Facilities”) along, under and upon the streets, avenues,
alleys, and public places in the City; also the right to erect and maintain
upon the streets, avenues, alleys, and public places, transmission lines
through the City for the period of 25 years; also the right of eminent domain
as provided in Section 364.2 of the Code of Iowa.
114.02 INDEMNIFICATION.
The Facilities shall be placed and maintained so as not to unnecessarily
interfere with the travel on the streets, avenues, alleys, and public places in
the City nor unnecessarily interfere with the proper use of the same, including
ordinary drainage, or with the sewers, underground pipe, and other property of
the City, and the Company shall hold the City free and harmless from all
damages arising from the negligent acts or omissions of the Company in the
erection or maintenance of the transmission system.
114.03 EXCAVATION.
In making any excavations in any street, alley, or public place, Company, its
successors and assigns, shall protect the site while work is in progress by
guards, barriers or signals, shall not unnecessarily obstruct the use of the
streets, and shall back fill all openings in such manner as to prevent settling
or depressions in surface, pavement, or sidewalk of such excavations with same
materials, restoring the condition as nearly as practical and if defects are
caused shall repair the same.
114.04 RELOCATION.
Except as provided herein below, the Company shall, at its cost and expense,
locate and relocate its Facilities in, on, or over any public street or alley
in the City in such a manner as the City may at any time reasonably require for
the purposes of facilitating the construction, reconstruction, maintenance, or
repair of the street or alley or any public improvement of, in, or about any
such street or alley or reasonably promoting the efficient operation of any
such improvement. If the City orders or requests the Company to relocate its
Facilities for the primary benefit of a commercial or private project, or as
the result of the initial request of a commercial or private developer or other
non-public entity, the Company shall receive payment for the cost of such
relocation as a precondition to relocating its Facilities. The City shall
consider reasonable alternatives in designing its public works projects so as
not arbitrarily to cause the Company unreasonable additional expense in
exercising its authority under this section. The City shall also provide a
reasonable alternate location for the Company’s Facilities. The City shall give
the Company reasonable advance written notice to vacate a public right-of-way.
Vacating a public right-of-way shall not deprive the Company of its right to
operate and maintain existing Facilities until the reasonable cost of
relocating the same are paid to the Company.
114.05 MODERN SYSTEM.
The system authorized by this chapter shall be kept in an operable condition
consistent with good utility practice and the reliability standards of the
North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC).
114.06 SYSTEM PLANS.
The Company recognizes the importance of community input when siting new
projects to serve the community and electricity distribution as well as the
authority of the City to permit and otherwise regulate siting activity. The
Company will apply to the City for a permit for work performed in City rights-
of-way in accordance with City regulations and provide project-specific
mapping, which may be protected under Iowa’s open meetings and open records
laws, Chapters 21 and 22 of the Code of Iowa, to be used solely and exclusively
by the City in administering the use and occupancy of the public right-of-way
and not otherwise to be relied upon for any purpose. At the request of the
City, mapping information will be reviewed with the City staff. All such
reviews will be in compliance with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
regulations or the regulations of other agencies with authority over the review
and dissemination of critical infrastructure information and infrastructure
security, and subject to all protective provisions for critical infrastructure
under Iowa’s open meetings and open records laws, Chapters 21 and 22 of the
Code of Iowa. Prior to any excavating in the rights-of-way, both parties shall
follow the procedures set forth in Chapter 480 of the Code of Iowa or an entity
with a similar function utilized by both the City and the Company, currently
the Iowa One Call System. For emergencies, the Company may proceed with the
work without first applying for a permit, provided, however, that the Company
shall apply for and obtain a permit as soon as commercially practicable after
commencing such work.
114.07 VEGETATION MANAGEMENT.
To promote public safety in proximity to its Facilities and to maintain
electric reliability, the Company is authorized and empowered to remove, cut,
trim, destroy, or otherwise control any tree, shrub, brush, bush, or any parts
thereof located within or extending into any street, alley, right-of-way or
public grounds. The foregoing vegetation management shall be completed in
accordance with the most current nationally accepted safety and utility
industry standards, as revised and updated from time to time.
114.08 CONTINUOUS SERVICE.
Service to be rendered by the Company under this franchise shall be continuous
unless prevented from doing so by fire, acts of God, unavoidable accidents or
casualties, customer outages or interruptions on the bulk electric system to no
fault of Company or interruptions necessary to properly service the Company's
equipment, and in such event, service shall be resumed as quickly as is
commercially practicable.
114.09 NON-EXCLUSIVITY.
The franchise granted by this chapter shall not be exclusive.
114.10 UNDERGROUNDING.
The City may request estimates for the undergrounding of replacement lines,
upgrades, or new lines, including lines to be adjusted for road moves or for
other specific projects. When requested, the Company will provide to the City
two estimates: 1) An estimate for the cost of the project with overhead
construction, and 2) An estimate for the cost of the project with underground
construction. The City will have no more than 60 days from the estimate date to
determine if it wants the line built overhead or placed underground. If the
City chooses underground construction for such project, the City will be
responsible for the incremental cost of undergrounding, if and to the extent,
such costs are not already part of or included in a precondition payment for
relocation pursuant to Section
114.03. The incremental cost of undergrounding is defined as the differential
between the estimate for underground construction and the estimate for overhead
construction. Upon receipt of the City’s payment for the incremental cost of
undergrounding, the Company will install the underground facilities. The
Company reserves the right to bill City for the amount that the incremental
cost associated with installation exceeds its estimate. The City reserves the
right to a refund of overpayment if the incremental costs are less than the
amount billed in the estimate. If the City wishes to have a line not scheduled
for replacement or upgrade placed underground, the City shall contact the
Company to make such a request. The City shall cover all costs related to this
work. If undergrounding of transmission lines requires entities interconnecting
with the Company to make adjustments to their electrical systems, the City
bears the responsibility of communication with those entities and, if it
chooses, the cost of converting their facilities from overhead to underground.
The Company reserves the right to review all the City’s communications with the
affected entities.
114.11 TERM OF AGREEMENT.
The term of the franchise granted by this chapter and the rights granted
thereunder shall continue for the period of 25 years from and after written
acceptance by the Company.   9
 
Notes
9 †  EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 1212, adopting an electric transmission
  franchise for the City, was passed and adopted on November 20, 2023.
114.12 FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS.
The City agrees it will not permit or grant approval for any development,
construction, or land uses in the City that would result in or cause the
Company’s facilities to violate setback requirements, safety requirements, or
any other provision of the National Electric Safety Code or any law,
regulation, or ordinance of the State, County, or the City.
114.13 ENTIRE AGREEMENT.
This chapter sets forth and constitutes the entire agreement between the
Company and the City with respect to the rights contained herein, and may not
be superseded, modified, or otherwise amended without the approval and
acceptance of the Company. Upon acceptance by the Company, the ordinance
codified in this chapter shall supersede, abrogate, and repeal any prior
electric system ordinance between the Company and the City as of the date the
chapter is accepted by the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event
shall the City enact any ordinance or place any limitations, either
operationally or through the assessment of fees, that create additional burdens
upon the Company, or that delay utility operations.
CHAPTER 115
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE - INTERSTATE POWER AND LIGHT
 
115.01 Grant of Franchise           115.08 Continuous Service
115.02 Placement of Appliances      115.09 Franchise Fee
115.03 Excavations                  115.10 Term of Franchise
115.04 Construction and Maintenance 115.11 Home Rule Authority
115.05 Utility Easements            115.12 Severability
115.06 Trimming Trees               115.13 Entire Agreement
115.07 Standard of Service          115.14 Rights and Privileges
 
115.01   GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
There is hereby granted to Interstate Power and Light Company, hereinafter
referred to as the “Company,” its successors and assigns, the right and non-
exclusive franchise to acquire, construct, reconstruct, erect, maintain and
operate in the City, works and plants for the manufacture and generation of
electricity and a distribution system for electric light, heat and power and
the right to erect and maintain the necessary poles, lines, wires, conduits and
other appliances for the distribution of electric current along, under and upon
the streets, alleys and public places in the said City to supply individuals,
corporations, communities, and municipalities both inside and outside of said
City with electric light, heat and power for the period of twenty-five (25)
years, † subject to a limited right of cancellation at the end of the fifteenth
(15) year anniversary date.
The Company is granted the right to exercise powers of eminent domain as
provided in Section 364.2 of the Code of Iowa. At least thirty (30) days prior
to exercising its right to eminent domain, the Company shall notify the City of
its intent to exercise such right.
 
Notes
EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance_No._1213, adopting an electric franchise agreement
  for the City, was passed and adopted on November 20, 2023.
115.02   PLACEMENT OF APPLIANCES.
The poles, lines, wires, circuits, and other appliances shall be placed and
maintained so as not to unnecessarily interfere with the travel on said
streets, highways, avenues, alleys, bridges and public places in said City nor
shall such facilities fixtures, and equipment unnecessarily or unreasonably
interfere with the proper use of the same, including ordinary drainage, or with
the sewers, underground pipe and other property of the City. The said Company,
its successors and assigns shall hold the City free and harmless from all
damages to the extent arising from the negligent acts or omissions of the
Company in the erection or maintenance of said system.
115.03   EXCAVATIONS.
In making any excavations in any street, alley, or public place, Company, its
successors and assigns, shall proceed with such work in a manner reasonably
necessary to protect the public. Company shall protect the site while work is
in progress by guards, barriers or signals, shall not unnecessarily obstruct
the use of the streets, and shall back fill all openings in such manner as to
prevent settling or depressions in surface, pavement or sidewalk of such
excavations with same materials, restoring the condition as nearly as
practical, and if defects are caused shall repair the same. Company shall give
reasonable advance notice to the City before excavating in streets, avenues
alleys, or public places within the City. The Company shall not be required to
restore or modify public right of way, sidewalks or other areas in or adjacent
to the Company project to a condition superior to its immediate previously
existing condition.
As soon as reasonably possible after use any trenches for excavations which the
Company has opened shall be filled. All backfilling in streets, avenues, or
alleys will be according to City specifications. Pavements, sidewalks, curb and
gutters or other portions of streets, avenues, or alleys opened, disturbed or
damaged by Company shall be promptly restored and replaced with like materials
by the Company at its own expense and left in as good condition as before. In
the event like replacement materials are not available, the Company shall
notify the City which must approve the use of any alternate materials. In the
event the Company fails to restore the work area in accordance with this
section as promptly as is practical, the City and Company shall meet within 10
days of written notice. If the parties agree in writing, the City may complete
the work at the expense of the Company.
If other entities are party to the excavation the costs of restoration shall be
apportioned to all entities using or enjoying the benefits of the excavation.
In cases where a cut or disturbance is made in a section of street paving or
sidewalks but causes greater disturbance than simply to the area cut, rather
than replace only the area cut, the Company shall replace that area which in no
event shall exceed the panel or panels disturbed.
All entities owning and operating facilities in the public right-of-way,
including City-owned and operated facilities, shall be treated in a neutral
manner.
115.04   CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
The Company shall, at its cost, locate and relocate its existing facilities or
equipment in, on, over or under any public street or alley in the City in such
a manner as the City may at any time reasonably require for the purposes of
facilitating the construction, reconstruction, maintenance or repair of the
street or alley or water utility or any public improvement thereof, in or about
any such street or alley or reasonably promoting the efficient operation of any
such improvement.
If the City requires the Company to relocate facilities in the public right of
way that have been relocated at Company expense at the direction of the City
during the previous five years, the reasonable costs of such relocation will be
paid by the City.
If the City orders or requests the Company to relocate its existing facilities
or equipment for any reason other than as specified above, or as the result of
the initial request for a commercial, private or other non-public development,
the Company shall receive payment for the cost of such relocation as a
precondition to relocating its existing facilities or equipment.
The City shall consider reasonable alternatives in designing its public works
projects so as not arbitrarily to cause the Company unreasonable additional
expense in exercising its authority under this section. The City shall also
provide, without charge to the Company, a reasonable alternative location for
the Company’s facilities as part of its relocation request.
Upon reasonable request the Company shall provide the City, on a project
specific basis, information indicating the horizontal location, relative to
boundaries of the right of way, or all equipment which it owns or over which it
has control that is located in City right of way, including documents, maps and
other information in paper or electronic or other forms (“Information”). The
Company and City recognize the Information may in whole or part be considered a
confidential record under State of federal law or both. Therefore, the City
shall not release any Information without prior consent of the Company and
shall return the Information to Company upon request. Furthermore the City
agrees that no documents, maps or information provided to the City by the
Company shall be made available to the public or other entities if such
documents or information are exempt from disclosure under the provisions of the
Freedom of Information Act, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Critical
Energy Infrastructure requirements pursuant to 18 CFR 388.112 and 388.113, or
Chapter 22 of the Code of Iowa, as such statutes and regulations may be amended
from time to time. In the event any action at law, in equity, or administrative
is brought against the City regarding disclosure of any document which the
Company has designated as a trade secret or as otherwise protected from
disclosure, the Company shall cooperate with the City in its defense of
nondisclosure.
115.05   UTILITY EASEMENTS.
Prior to the City abandoning or vacating any street, avenue, alley or public
ground where the Company has electric facilities, the City will make reasonable
effort to grant the company an easement for said facilities. If the City does
not grant the Company a utility easement for said facilities prior to
abandoning or vacating a street, avenue, alley or public place, the City shall
at its cost and expense obtain easements for existing Company facilities.
115.06   TRIMMING TREES.
The Company is authorized and empowered to prune or remove at Company expense
any tree extending into any street, alley or public grounds to maintain
electric reliability, safety, to restore utility service and to prevent limbs,
branches or trunks from interfering with the wires and facilities of the
Company. The pruning and removal of trees shall be performed in accordance with
Company’s then current line clearance vegetation plan as filed and approved by
the Iowa Utilities Board, as well as all applicable codes and standards
referenced therein.
115.07   STANDARD OF SERVICE.
During the term of this franchise, the Company shall furnish electric energy in
accordance with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board and the
Company’s tariffs. The Company will maintain compliance with Iowa Utilities
Board regulatory standards for reliability.
115.08   CONTINUOUS SERVCE.
Service to be rendered by the Company under this franchise shall be continuous
unless prevented from doing so by fire, acts of God, unavoidable accidents or
casualties, or reasonable interruptions necessary to properly service the
Company’s equipment, and in such event, service shall be resumed as quickly as
is reasonably possible.
115.09   FRANCHISE FEE.
There is hereby imposed a franchise fee of five percent (5%) upon the gross
revenue generated from sales of electricity by the Company within the corporate
limits of the City. The Company shall begin collecting the franchise fee on
February 1, 2024, following receipt of written approval of the required tax
rider tariff from the Iowa Utilities Board.
The franchise fee shall be in lieu of any other payments to the City for the
Company’s use of streets, avenues, alleys and public places in the said City
and other administrative or regulatory costs with regard to said franchise; and
all said facilities outlined in Section 1 shall be exempt from any special tax,
assessment, license or rental charge during the entire term of this ordinance.
The amount of the franchise fee shall be shown separately on the utility bill
to each customer. The Company shall remit franchise fee receipts to the City no
more frequently than on or before the last business day of the month following
each calendar year quarter.
The franchise fee shall be applied to all customers’ bills in accordance with
Iowa Code Chapter 364, as amended, and subject to any modifications or the
repeal of same. The Company shall not grant exemptions or refunds of the
franchise fee beyond that granted by the Code of Iowa applicable at the time or
such exemption or refund.
The Company shall not, under any circumstances be required to return or refund
any franchise fees that have been collected from customers and remitted to the
City. In the event the Company is required to provide data or information in
defense of the City’s imposition of franchise fees or the Company is required
to assist the City in identifying customers or calculating any franchise fee
refunds for groups of or individual customers the City shall reimburse the
Company for the expenses incurred by the Company to provide such data or
information.
Upon receipt of a final and unappealable order or approval authorizing
annexation, or changes in the City limits, the City Clerk shall provide written
notification to Company of such annexation or change in the limits of said
City, and the Company shall apply the franchise fee to its customers who are
affected by the annexation or change in the limits of the City, commencing no
later than sixty (60) days from the effective date of the Company receiving
written notification from the City of the annexation.
115.10   TERM OF FRANCHISE.
The term of the franchise granted by this ordinance and the rights granted
thereunder shall continue for the period of twenty-five (25) years from and
after written acceptance by the Company, except that the City may cancel this
franchise on the fifteenth (15th) anniversary of the date of this franchise by
notifying Company in writing of its desire to do so, said notification to be
given thirty (30) days before the fifteenth (15th) anniversary of this
franchise. If Company is not notified of the cancellation by the fifteenth
(15th) anniversary, then this franchise shall continue without cancellation
until the twenty fifth (25th) year. The acceptance shall be filed with the City
Clerk within thirty (30) days from passage of this ordinance.
115.11   HOME RULE AUTHORITY.
The City reserves to itself all home rule powers and authority.
115.12   SEVERABILITY.
If any section or provision of this ordinance is held invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect the validity of any other
provisions of this ordinance which can be given effect without the invalid
portion or portions and to this end each section and provision of this
ordinance is severable.
115.13   ENTIRE AGREEMENT.
This ordinance sets forth and constitutes the entire agreement between the
Company and the City with respect to the rights contained herein, and may not
be supplemented, superseded, modified or otherwise amended without the written
approval and acceptance of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no
event shall the City enact or maintain any ordinance or place any limitations,
either operationally or through the assessment of fees other than those
approved and accepted by the Company within this ordinance, that create
additional burdens upon the Company, or which delay utility operations.
115.14   RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
This ordinance and the rights and privileges herein granted shall become
effective and binding upon its approval and passage in accordance with Iowa law
and the written acceptance by the Company.
(Chapter 115 – Ord._1213 – Feb. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 120
LIQUOR LICENSES AND WINE AND BEER PERMITS
 
120.01 License or Permit Required 120.04 Action by Council
120.02 General Prohibition        120.05 Prohibited Sales and Acts
120.03 Investigation              120.06 Amusement Devices
 
120.01 LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall manufacture for sale, import, sell, or offer or keep for sale,
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer without first securing a retail alcohol
license, wine permit, or beer permit in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.22, 123.122, and 123.171)
120.02 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, sell, offer, or keep for sale, possess,
or transport alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer except upon the terms, conditions,
limitations, and restrictions enumerated in Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa,
and a license or permit may be suspended or revoked or a civil penalty may be
imposed for a violation thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.2, 123.39, and 123.50)
120.03 INVESTIGATION.
Upon receipt of an application for a retail alcohol license, the Clerk may
forward it to the Police Chief, who shall then conduct an investigation and
submit a written report as to the truth of the facts averred in the
application. The Fire Chief may also inspect the premises to determine if they
conform to the requirements of the City. The Council shall not approve an
application for a license for any premises that does not conform to the
applicable law and ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.30)
120.04 ACTION BY COUNCIL.
The Council shall either approve or disapprove the issuance of a retail alcohol
license, shall endorse its approval or disapproval on the application, and
shall forward the application with the necessary fee and bond, if required, to
the Iowa Department of Revenue.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.32[2])
120.05 PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS.
A person holding a retail alcohol license and the person’s agents or employees
shall not do any of the following:
1.   Sell, dispense, or give to any intoxicated person, or one simulating
intoxication, any alcoholic beverage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[1])
2.   Sell or dispense any alcoholic beverage on the premises covered by the
license, or permit its consumption thereon between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and
6:00 a.m. on any day of the week.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2b])
3.   Sell alcoholic beverages to any person on credit, except with a bona fide
credit card. This provision does not apply to sales by a club to its members,
to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide registered guests, or to retail sales
by the managing entity of a convention center, civic center, or events center.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2c])
4.   Employ a person under 18 years of age in the sale or serving of alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises where sold, except as follows:
   A.   Definitions. For use in this subsection the following terms are defined
as follows:
      (1)   “Bar” means an establishment where one may purchase alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises and in which the serving of food is
only incidental to the consumption of those beverages.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 142D.2[1])
      (2)   “Restaurant” means eating establishments, including private and
public school cafeterias, which offer food to the public, guests, or employees,
including the kitchen and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the
premises for serving elsewhere, and including a bar area within a restaurant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 142D.2[17])
   B.   This subsection shall not apply if the employer has, on file, written
permission from the parent, guardian, or legal custodian of a person 16 or 17
years of age for the person to sell or serve alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises where sold. However, a person 16 or 17 years of age
shall not work in a bar as defined in Paragraph A.
      (1)   The employer shall keep a copy of the written permission on file
until the person is either 18 years of age or no longer engaged in the sale of
or serving alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold.
      (2)   If written permission is on file in accordance with Paragraph B, a
person 16 or 17 years of age may sell or serve alcoholic beverages in a
restaurant as defined above in Paragraph A during the hours in which the
restaurant serves food.
   C.   A person 16 or 17 years of age shall not sell or serve alcoholic
beverages under this subsection unless at least two employees 18 years of age
or older are physically present in the area where alcoholic beverages are sold
or served.
   D.   If a person employed under this subsection reports an incident of
workplace harassment to the employer or if the employer otherwise becomes aware
of such an incident, the employer shall report the incident to the employee’s
parent, guardian, or legal custodian and to the Iowa Civil Rights Commission,
which shall determine if any action is necessary or appropriate under Chapter
216 of the Code of Iowa.
   E.   An employer that employs a person under this subsection shall require
the person to attend training on prevention and response to sexual harassment
upon commencing employment.
   F.   Prior to a person commencing employment under this subsection, the
employer shall notify the employer’s dramshop liability insurer, in a form and
time period prescribed by the Director, that the employer is employing a person
under this subsection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2f])
5.   In the case of a retail wine or beer permittee, knowingly allow the mixing
or adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to wine, beer, or any other
beverage in or about the permittee’s place of business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2i])
6.   Knowingly permit any gambling, except in accordance with Iowa law, or
knowingly permit any solicitation for immoral purposes, or immoral or
disorderly conduct on the premises covered by the license.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2a])
7.   Knowingly permit or engage in any criminal activity on the premises
covered by the license.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2j])
8.   Keep on premises covered by a retail alcohol license any alcoholic liquor
in any container except the original package purchased from the Iowa Department
of Revenue and except mixed drinks or cocktails mixed on the premises for
immediate consumption. However, mixed drinks or cocktails that are mixed on the
premises and are not for immediate consumption may be consumed on the licensed
premises, subject to rules adopted by the Iowa Department of Revenue.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2d])
9.   Reuse for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine any container or receptacle
used originally for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine; or adulterate, by the
addition of any substance, the contents, or remaining contents of an original
package of an alcoholic liquor or wine; or knowingly possess any original
package that has been reused or adulterated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2e])
10.   Allow any person other than the licensee or employees of the licensee to
use or keep on the licensed premises any alcoholic liquor in any bottle or
other container that is designed for the transporting of such beverages, except
as allowed by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2g])
11.   Sell, give, possess, or otherwise supply a machine that is used to
vaporize an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of being consumed in a vaporized
form.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2k])
120.06 AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
The following provisions pertain to electrical or mechanical amusement devices
possessed and used in accordance with Chapter 99B of the Code of Iowa. (Said
devices are allowed only in premises with a retail alcohol license, as
specifically authorized in said Chapter 99B.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 99B.57)
1.   As used in this section, “registered electrical or mechanical amusement
device” means an electrical or mechanical device required to be registered with
the Iowa Department of Inspection and Appeals, as provided in Section 99B.53 of
the Code of Iowa.
2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to participate in the
operation of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device.
3.   It is unlawful for any person owning or leasing a registered electrical or
mechanical amusement device, or an employee of a person owning or leasing a
registered electrical or mechanical amusement device, to knowingly allow a
person under the age of 21 to participate in the operation of a registered
electrical or mechanical amusement device.
4.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly participate in the operation of
a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device with a person under the
age of 21.
CHAPTER 121
CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO PERMITS
 
121.01 Definitions             121.06 Refunds
121.02 Permit Required         121.07 Persons Under Legal Age
121.03 Application             121.08 Self-Service Sales Prohibited
121.04 Fees                    121.09 Permit Revocation
121.05 Issuance and Expiration
 
121.01 DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.1)
1.   “Alternative nicotine product” means a product, not consisting of or
containing tobacco, that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing, or
by any other means. “Alternative nicotine product” does not include cigarettes,
tobacco products, or vapor products, or a product that is regulated as a drug
or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
2.   “Cigarette” means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of tobacco,
or any substitute for tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and irrespective
of tobacco or any substitute for tobacco being flavored, adulterated, or mixed
with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper or cover made of paper
or any other material. However, cigarette shall not be construed to include
cigars.
3.   “Place of business” means any place where cigarettes, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or vapor products are sold, stored, or kept for
the purpose of sale or consumption by a retailer.
4.   “Retailer” means every person who sells, distributes, or offers for sale
for consumption, or possesses for the purpose of sale for consumption,
cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products, irrespective of
the quantity or amount or the number of sales, or who engages in the business
of selling tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products to ultimate consumers.
5.   “Self-service display” means any manner of product display, placement, or
storage from which a person purchasing the product may take possession of the
product, prior to purchase, without assistance from the retailer or employee of
the retailer, in removing the product from a restricted access location.
6.   “Tobacco products” means the following: cigars; little cigars; cheroots;
stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other
smoking tobacco; snuff; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and other
chewing tobaccos; shorts or refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and sweepings
of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such manner as to
be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or for both chewing
and smoking, but does not mean cigarettes.
7.   “Vapor product” means any noncombustible product, which may or may not
contain nicotine, that employs a heating element, power source, electronic
circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of
shape or size, that can be used to produce vapor from a solution or other
substance. “Vapor product” includes an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device, and any
cartridge or other container of a solution or other substance, which may or may
not contain nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar
product or device. “Vapor product” does not include a product regulated as a
drug or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter
V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
121.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
1.   Retail Cigarette Permits. It is unlawful for any person, other than a
holder of a retail permit, to sell cigarettes, alternative nicotine products,
or vapor products at retail and no retailer shall distribute, sell, or solicit
the sale of any cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products
within the City without a valid permit for each place of business. The permit
shall, at all times, be publicly displayed at the place of business so as to be
easily seen by the public and the persons authorized to inspect the place of
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13)
2.   Retail Tobacco Permits. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a retailer of tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products at any place of business without first having
received a permit as a retailer for each place of business owned or operated by
the retailer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A)
A retailer who holds a retail cigarette permit is not required to also obtain a
retail tobacco permit. However, if a retailer only holds a retail cigarette
permit and that permit is suspended, revoked, or expired, the retailer shall
not sell any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products, during such time.
121.03 APPLICATION.
A completed application on forms furnished by the State Department of Revenue
or on forms made available or approved by the Department and accompanied by the
required fee shall be filed with the Clerk. Renewal applications shall be filed
at least five days prior to the last regular meeting of the Council in June. If
a renewal application is not timely filed, and a special Council meeting is
called to act on the application, the costs of such special meeting shall be
paid by the applicant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.04 FEES.
The fee for a retail cigarette or tobacco permit shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
 
FOR PERMITS GRANTED DURING:    FEE:
July, August, or September     $ 75.00
October, November, or December $ 56.25
January, February, or March    $ 37.50
April, May, or June            $ 18.75
 
121.05 ISSUANCE AND EXPIRATION.
Upon proper application and payment of the required fee, a permit shall be
issued. Each permit issued shall describe clearly the place of business for
which it is issued and shall be nonassignable. All permits expire on June 30 of
each year. The Clerk shall submit a duplicate of any application for a permit
to the Iowa Department of Revenue within 30 days of issuance of a permit.
121.06 REFUNDS.
A retailer may surrender an unrevoked permit and receive a refund from the
City, except during April, May, or June, in accordance with the schedule of
refunds as provided in Section 453A.13 or 453A.47A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.07 PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
A person shall not sell, give, or otherwise supply any tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes to any
person under 21 years of age. The provision of this section includes
prohibiting a person under 21 years of age from purchasing tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, and cigarettes from a
vending machine. If a retailer or employee of a retailer violates the
provisions of this section, the Council shall, after written notice and
hearing, and in addition to the other penalties fixed for such violation,
assess the following:
1.   For a first violation, the retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty in
the amount of $300.00. Failure to pay the civil penalty as ordered under this
subsection shall result in automatic suspension of the permit for a period of
14 days.
2.   For a second violation within a period of two years, the retailer shall be
assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 or the retailer’s permit
shall be suspended for a period of 30 days. The retailer may select its
preference in the penalty to be applied under this subsection.
3.   For a third violation within a period of three years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.
4.   For a fourth violation within a period of three years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 60 days.
5.   For a fifth violation within a period of four years, the retailer’s permit
shall be revoked.
The Clerk shall give 10 days’ written notice to the retailer by mailing a copy
of the notice to the place of business as it appears on the application for a
permit. The notice shall state the reason for the contemplated action and the
time and place at which the retailer may appear and be heard.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2, 453A.22, and 453A.36[6])
121.08 SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED.
Except for the sale of cigarettes through a cigarette vending machine as
provided in Section 453A.36[6] of the Code of Iowa, a retailer shall not sell
or offer for sale tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products, or cigarettes through the use of a self-service display.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.36A)
121.09 PERMIT REVOCATION.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, as provided by the
Code of Iowa, the Council may also revoke a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter for a violation of Division I of Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or
any rule adopted thereunder. If a permit is revoked, a new permit shall not be
issued to the permit holder for any place of business, or to any other person
for the place of business at which the violation occurred, until one year has
expired from the date of revocation, unless good cause to the contrary is shown
to the Council. The Clerk shall report the revocation or suspension of a retail
permit to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce within
30 days of the revocation or suspension.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.22)
CHAPTER 122
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
122.01 Purpose                  122.10 Time Restriction
122.02 Definitions              122.11 Revocation of License
122.03 License Required         122.12 Hearing
122.04 Application for License  122.13 Record and Determination
122.05 License Fees             122.14 Appeal
122.06 Bond Required            122.15 Effect of Revocation
122.07 License Issued           122.16 Rebates
122.08 Display of License       122.17 License Exemptions
122.09 License Not Transferable 122.18 Charitable and Nonprofit Organizations
 
122.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to protect residents of the City against fraud,
unfair competition, and intrusion into the privacy of their homes by licensing
and regulating peddlers, solicitors, and transient merchants.
122.02 DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Peddler” means any person carrying goods or merchandise who sells or
offers for sale for immediate delivery such goods or merchandise from house to
house or upon the public street.
2.   “Solicitor” means any person who solicits or attempts to solicit from
house to house or upon the public street any contribution or donation or any
order for goods, services, subscriptions, or merchandise to be delivered at a
future date.
3.   “Transient merchant” means any person who engages in a temporary or
itinerant merchandising business and in the course of such business hires,
leases, or occupies any building or structure whatsoever, or who operates out
of a vehicle that is parked anywhere within the City limits. Temporary
association with a local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer, or conduct of
such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any
local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer does not exempt any person from
being considered a transient merchant.
122.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
Any person engaging in peddling, soliciting, or in the business of a transient
merchant in the City without first obtaining a license as herein provided is in
violation of this chapter.
122.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
An application in writing shall be filed with the City Manager for a license
under this chapter. Such application shall set forth the applicant’s name,
permanent and local address, and business address if any. The application shall
also set forth the applicant’s employer, if any, and the employer’s address,
the nature of the applicant’s business, the last three places of such business,
and the length of time sought to be covered by the license. No application fee
shall be required for such license.
122.05 LICENSE FEES.
In addition to the application fee identified in Section
122.04 of this chapter, the following license fees shall be paid to the City
Manager prior to the issuance of any license. This fee is subject to the City’s
Fees & Fines Resolution, for a 30-day license. Application fees, once paid, are
not reimbursable absent Council approval.
(Section 122.05 – Ord. 1247 – Jun. 25 Supp.)
122.06 BOND REQUIRED.
Before a license under this chapter is issued to a transient merchant, an
applicant shall provide to the Clerk evidence that the applicant has filed a
bond with the Secretary of State in accordance with Chapter 9C of the Code of
Iowa.
122.07 LICENSE ISSUED.
If the City Manager finds the application is completed in conformance with the
requirements of this chapter, the facts stated therein are found to be correct,
and the license fee paid, a license shall be issued immediately.
122.08 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
Each solicitor or peddler shall keep such license in possession at all times
while doing business in the City and shall, upon the request of prospective
customers, exhibit the license as evidence of compliance with all requirements
of this chapter. Each transient merchant shall display publicly such merchant’s
license in the merchant’s place of business.
122.09 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter are not transferable in
any situation and are to be applicable only to the person filing the
application.
122.10 TIME RESTRICTION.
All peddler’s and solicitor’s licenses shall provide that said licenses are in
force and effect only between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on any week
day, or Saturday, or anytime on a Sunday, or on a State or national holiday.
122.11 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, the City Manager
may revoke any license issued pursuant to this chapter for the following
reasons:
1.   Fraudulent Statements. The licensee has made fraudulent statements in the
application for the license or in the conduct of the business.
2.   Violation of Law. The licensee has violated this chapter or has otherwise
conducted the business in an unlawful manner.
3.   Endangered Public Welfare, Health, or Safety. The licensee has conducted
the business in such manner as to endanger the public welfare, safety, order,
or morals.
The City Manager shall send the written notice to the licensee at the
licensee’s local address. The notice shall contain particulars of the
complaints against the licensee, the ordinance provisions or State statutes
allegedly violated, and the date, time, and place for hearing on the matter.
122.12 HEARING.
The City Manager shall conduct a hearing at which both the licensee and any
complainants shall be present to determine the truth of the facts alleged in
the complaint and notice. Should the licensee, or authorized representative,
fail to appear without good cause, the City Manager may proceed to a
determination of the complaint.
122.13 RECORD AND DETERMINATION.
The City Manager shall make and record findings of fact and conclusions of law,
and shall revoke a license only when upon review of the entire record the City
Manager finds clear and convincing evidence of substantial violation of this
chapter or State law.
122.14 APPEAL.
If the City Manager revokes or refuses to issue a license, the City Manager
shall make a part of the record the reasons for such revocation or refusal. The
licensee, or the applicant, shall have a right to a hearing before the Council
at its next regular meeting. The Council may reverse, modify, or affirm the
decision of the City Manager by a majority vote of the Council members present
and the City Manager shall carry out the decision of the Council.
122.15 EFFECT OF REVOCATION.
Revocation of any license shall bar the licensee from being eligible for any
license under this chapter for a period of one year from the date of the
revocation.
122.16 REBATES.
Any licensee, except in the case of a revoked license, shall be entitled to a
rebate of part of the fee paid if the license is surrendered before it expires.
The amount of the rebate shall be determined by dividing the total license fee
by the number of days for which the license was issued and then multiplying the
result by the number of full days not expired. In all cases, at least $5.00 of
the original fee shall be retained by the City to cover administrative costs.
122.17 LICENSE EXEMPTIONS.
The following are excluded from the application of this chapter.
1.   Newspapers. Persons delivering, collecting for, or selling subscriptions
to newspapers.
2.   Club Members. Members of local civic and service clubs, Boy Scout, Girl
Scout, 4-H Clubs, Future Farmers of America, and similar organizations.
3.   Local Residents and Farmers. Local residents and farmers who offer for
sale their own products.
4.   Students. Students representing the Local School District conducting
projects sponsored by organizations recognized by the school.
5.   Route Sales. Route delivery persons who only incidentally solicit
additional business or make special sales.
6.   Resale or Institutional Use. Persons customarily calling on businesses or
institutions for the purposes of selling products for resale or institutional
use.
7.   Minor Businesses. An on-site transactional business traditionally operated
exclusively by a person under the age of 18, operated on an occasional basis
for no more than 89 calendar days in a calendar year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[13])
122.18 CHARITABLE AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
Authorized representatives of charitable or nonprofit organizations operating
under the provisions of Chapter 504 of the Code of Iowa desiring to solicit
money or to distribute literature are exempt from the operation of Sections
122.04 and
122.05. All such organizations are required to submit to the City Manager in
writing the name and purpose of the cause for which such activities are sought,
names and addresses of the officers and directors of the organization, the
period during which such activities are to be carried on, and whether any
commissions, fees, or wages are to be charged by the solicitor and the amount
thereof. If the City Manager finds that the organization is a bona fide charity
or nonprofit organization, the City Manager shall issue, free of charge, a
license containing the above information to the applicant. In the event the
City Manager denies the exemption, the authorized representatives of the
organization may appeal the decision to the Council, as provided in Section
122.14 of this chapter.
CHAPTER 123
HOUSE MOVERS
 
123.01 House Mover Defined 123.07 Permit Issued
123.02 Permit Required     123.08 Public Safety
123.03 Application         123.09 Time Limit
123.04 Bond Required       123.10 Removal by City
123.05 Insurance Required  123.11 Protect Pavement
123.06 Permit Fee          123.12 Overhead Wires
 
123.01 HOUSE MOVER DEFINED.
A “house mover” means any person who undertakes to move a building or similar
structure upon, over or across public streets or property when the building or
structure is of such size that it requires the use of skids, jacks, dollies, or
any other specialized moving equipment.
123.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any person to engage in the activity of house mover as
herein defined without a valid permit from the City for each house, building,
or similar structure to be moved. Buildings of less than 100 square feet are
exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
123.03 APPLICATION.
Application for a house mover’s permit shall be made in writing to the Clerk on
a form provided by the City. The application shall include:
1.   Name and Address. The applicant’s full name and address and, if a
corporation, the names and addresses of its principal officers.
2.   Building Location. An accurate description of the present location and
future site of the building or similar structure to be moved.
3.   Routing Plan. A routing plan approved by the City Manager, street
superintendent, and public utility officials. The route approved shall be the
shortest route compatible with the greatest public convenience and safety.
123.04 BOND REQUIRED.
The applicant shall post with the Clerk a penal bond in the minimum sum of
$5,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue such bonds in the
State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for any damage done to
the City or to public property, and payment of all costs incurred by the City
in the course of moving the building or structure.
123.05 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
Each applicant shall also file a certificate of insurance indicating that the
applicant is carrying public liability insurance in effect for the duration of
the permit covering the applicant and all agents and employees for the
following minimum amounts:
1.   Bodily Injury – $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
2.   Property Damage – $50,000.00 per accident.
123.06 PERMIT FEE.
A permit fee of $0.00 shall be payable at the time of filing the application
with the Clerk. A separate permit shall be required for each house, building or
similar structure to be moved.
123.07 PERMIT ISSUED.
Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and insurance certificate, and
payment of the required fee, the Clerk shall issue a permit.
123.08 PUBLIC SAFETY.
At all times when a building or similar structure is in motion upon any street,
alley, sidewalk, or public property, the permittee shall maintain flag persons
at the closest intersections or other possible channels of traffic to the
sides, behind, and ahead of the building or structure. At all times when the
building or structure is at rest upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or public
property the permittee shall maintain adequate warning signs or lights at the
intersections or channels of traffic to the sides, behind, and ahead of the
building or structure.
123.09 TIME LIMIT.
No house mover shall permit or allow a building or similar structure to remain
upon any street or other public way for a period of more than 12 hours without
having first secured the written approval of the City.
123.10 REMOVAL BY CITY.
In the event any building or similar structure is found to be in violation of
Section
123.09, the City is authorized to remove such building or structure and assess
the costs thereof against the permit holder and the surety on the permit
holder’s bond.
123.11 PROTECT PAVEMENT.
It is unlawful to move any house or building of any kind over any pavement,
unless the wheels or rollers upon which the house or building is moved are at
least one inch in width for each 1,000 pounds of weight of such building. If
there is any question as to the weight of a house or building, the estimate of
the City as to such weight shall be final.
123.12 OVERHEAD WIRES.
The holder of any permit to move a building shall see that all telephone, cable
television, and electric wires and poles are removed when necessary and
replaced in good order, and shall be liable for the costs of the same.
CHAPTER 124
JUNK DEALER LICENSE
 
124.01 Definitions                  124.08 Revocation of A License
124.02 License Required             124.09 Effect of Revocation
124.03 Application for License      124.10 Transfer of License Prohibited
124.04 Fee Payment                  124.11 Display of License
124.05 Issuance of A License        124.12 Exemptions
124.06 Fees and Duration of License 124.13 Special Requirements
124.07 Appeal of Denied Application
 
124.01 DEFINITIONS.
The following words and phrases whenever used in this Code of Ordinances, shall
be constructed as defined in this section unless, from the context, a different
meaning is intended or unless different meaning is specifically defined and
more particularly directed to the use of such words or phrases:
1.   “Junk dealer” means any person who, within the corporate limits of the
City, buys junk, sells junk, or stores junk in the public view.
2.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other non-
ferrous metal; old or discarded rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste, or used lumber; salvaged wood, pallets, and other building
materials; dismantled vehicles, machinery and appliances, or parts of such
vehicles, machinery, and appliances; used tires; iron, steel, or other old or
scrap ferrous materials; old or discarded glass, tin, plastic, or old discarded
household goods or hardware. Neatly stacked firewood located on a side yard or
a rear yard is not considered junk.
124.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to, within the corporate limits of the
City, buy junk, sell junk, or store junk in the public view, unless authorized
pursuant to a valid junk dealer license from the City.
2.   A violation of this section shall constitute a municipal infraction under
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
3.   Nothing in this section or chapter shall be construed to excuse a junk
dealer or other collector of junk items from liability for causing a nuisance
under
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
124.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
Application for any license under this chapter shall be made in writing on
forms furnished by the Clerk. One application shall be filed with the Clerk and
shall include:
1.   The applicant’s full name and address, and, where applicable, the address
of their local business establishment and the nature of their business.
2.   For business applicants, if the applicant is not the owner of the place
where the business is to be conducted, the name and address of the owner.
3.   If the applicant is a corporation or other association, it shall also list
the names and addresses of its principal officers.
4.   Proof of payment of junk dealer license application fee.
124.04 FEE PAYMENT.
All fees required by this chapter shall be paid to the Clerk, who shall give
the applicant a written receipt showing the sum received and the date of
receipt.
124.05 ISSUANCE OF A LICENSE.
The Clerk shall refer all properly completed junk dealer license applications
to the Building Official. If the Building Official finds that no grounds for
revocation under Section
124.08 exist and that all requirements of Section
124.13 have been complied with, the license shall be issued to the applicant.
The Building Official must make a determination whether to issue the license
within 10 days from the date a completed application is submitted.
124.06 FEES AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
1.   An applicant may apply for an annual or a daily license. The annual
license shall be valid for one year after the date on which it is issued. The
daily license shall be valid for only one 24-hour period, but the applicant may
apply for and receive seven daily licenses at one time.
2.   The application fee for junk dealer licenses shall be:
   A.   For one day    $5.00
   B.   For one year    $50.00
124.07 APPEAL OF DENIED APPLICATION.
1.   If the Building Official denies a junk license application, they shall
endorse their reasons upon the application. The applicant shall have a right to
an informal hearing before the Building Official within 30 days of the date of
denial.
2.   A hearing before the Building Official must be demanded by written request
filed with the Clerk within five days of the applicant’s receipt of an adverse
decision. The applicant shall be notified in writing of the time and place of
the hearing and shall have the opportunity to present relevant evidence and
argument to the Building Official. Within 10 days following the hearing, the
Building Official shall issue a written decision either affirming or reversing
the denial and stating the grounds for their decision.
3.   The applicant may appeal an adverse reviewed decision by the Building
Official to the Board of Adjustment pursuant to Section
24.03 of this Code of Ordinances and the rules adopted by the Board of
Adjustment. The applicant must file a notice of appeal to the Board of
Adjustment with the Clerk within five days of an adverse decision by the
Building Official.
124.08 REVOCATION OF A LICENSE.
1.   The Building Official may revoke any license issued under this chapter for
the following reasons:
   A.   The licensee has made fraudulent statements in their application for
the license or in the conduct of their business.
   B.   The licensee has violated this chapter or has otherwise conducted their
business in an unlawful manner.
   C.   The licensee has conducted their business in such manner as to endanger
the public welfare, health, or safety.
2.    The Building Official shall serve a notice of revocation at least 10 days
in advance of such revocation. The notice shall state the grounds for
revocation and set the time and place for an informal hearing at which the
licensee may present relevant evidence and argument to the Building Official.
Following such a hearing, the Building Official shall issue a written decision
regarding revocation of the license, which shall be served upon the licensee.
3.    A licensee may appeal a revocation by the Building Official to the Board
of Adjustment pursuant to Section
24.03 of this Code of Ordinances and the rules adopted by the Board of
Adjustment. The applicant must file a notice of appeal to the Board of
Adjustment with the Clerk within five days of revocation.
124.09 EFFECT OF REVOCATION.
Revocation of a license shall bar the licensee from being eligible for another
license under this chapter for a period of three months from the date of
revocation.
124.10 TRANSFER OF LICENSE PROHIBITED.
In no case shall a license issued under this chapter be transferred to another
person or be used for a purpose other than that for which it was issued.
124.11 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
Every person who is issued a license under the provisions of this chapter shall
display the license in a conspicuous place on the premises on which the
business is being conducted.
124.12 EXEMPTIONS.
This chapter shall not be construed to require a license of each employee or
agent of a business engaged in junk dealing. Only the owner, manager, or agent
of such an occupation need possess a license.
124.13 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
Every person who is granted a license under the terms of this chapter shall
comply with the following requirements:
1.    Every junk dealer shall maintain a permanent record book that shows a
description of each item received, the name, and address of the person from
whom it was received, the quantity or weight of each item, the amount paid, and
the time and date of the transaction.
2.    Every junk dealer shall segregate each day's collection for a period of
48 hours. During this period no item shall be disposed of or altered in any
manner.
3.    A junk dealer shall not purchase or receive junk from a minor unless they
first receive the written consent of the minor's parent or guardian. Such
consent shall be attached to the record book as a part of the permanent record.
4.    A junk dealer shall consent to inspection during business hours of the
junk dealer's premises by the Building Official, and any peace officer, which
inspection shall be for the purpose of determining whether materials or
conditions dangerous to the public health are present on the premises.
5.    Any junk materials which are stored outdoors or otherwise visible from a
public right-of-way shall be enclosed within a solid fence at least eight feet
in height which hides the contents of the yard from the public view. Junk
materials shall not exceed the height of the surrounding fence. Any gates in
said fence shall be of solid material and equal height.
6.    Any use of property to store, buy, or sell junk shall conform to
applicable zoning requirements as specified in
Chapter 165.
CHAPTER 125
LICENSING AND INSPECTION OF RENTAL PROPERTIES
125.01 Purpose                       125.09 Inspection Upon Complaint
125.02 Definitions                   125.10 Required Abatement of
                                     Nonconforming Condition
125.03 Registration of Rental        125.11 Property Standards
Properties
125.04 Rental Permit Required        125.12 Mandatory Background Checks
125.05 Consent to Inspection         125.13 Mandatory Written Lease or Rental
                                     Agreement
125.06 Inspection of Rental Property 125.14 Fees
and Issuance of Rental Permit
125.07 Rental Permit Effectiveness   125.15 Appeal
125.08 Revocation of Permit          125.16 Implementation of Chapter
                                     125.17 Violations
 
125.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the inspection of residential
rental properties within the corporate limits of the City, in order to ensure
that such properties conform to minimum standards deemed necessary for the
protection of the health and safety of the occupants thereof and the occupants
of surrounding properties, and to inhibit the spread of urban blight.
125.02 DEFINITIONS.
The following words and phrases whenever used in the ordinances of the City,
shall be construed as defined in this section unless, from the context, a
different meaning is intended or unless different meaning is specifically
defined and more particularly directed to the use of such words or phrases:
1.    Dwelling means any house, building or mobile home, or portion thereof,
occupied or intended to be occupied as the place of habitation of human beings,
either permanently or transiently.
2.    Dwelling unit means one or more rooms within a dwelling intended to be
occupied by human beings for living purposes. If a common area and facilities
for cooking and eating are provided in a dwelling for the use of the occupants
of units therein, such common area and facilities shall constitute a part of
each dwelling unit for the purpose of inspection and compliance with this
chapter, notwithstanding the fact that cooking is not allowed in individual
units.
3.    Egress means a continuous and unobstructed path of vertical and
horizontal egress travel from any occupied portion of a building or structure
to a public way.
4.    Emergency escape and rescue opening (EERO) means an operable exterior
window, door or similar device that provides a means of escape and access for
rescue in the event of an emergency. The EERO meet the following
specifications:
   A.   A minimum clear opening width of 20 inches,
   B.   A minimum clear height of 24 inches,
   C.   A minimum clear opening of five square feet when located at ground
level or below, or five point seven square feet when located above ground
level,
   D.   A maximum sill height of 44 inches, and
   E.   Readily accessible from the exterior to emergency personnel and
equipment.
5.    Exit means that portion of a means of egress system which is separated
from other interior spaces of a building or structure by fire-resistance-rated
construction and opening protectives as required to provide a protected path of
egress travel between the exit access and the exit discharge. Exits include
exterior exit doors at the level of exit discharge, vertical exit enclosures,
exit passageways, exterior exit stairways, exterior exit ramps, and horizontal
exits. An EERO is not considered an exit.
6.    Landlord means an owner or manager as defined herein.
7.    Manager means a person or entity designated by the owner as the owner's
agent in supervising the operation and leasing of the owner's rental property
and authorized to act on behalf of the owner with the City concerning
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
8.    Owner means any person, persons, entity, or entities that have legal
title, individually or collectively, to rental property.
9.    Rental permit means the permit issued by the City authorizing occupancy
of a rental property.
10.    Rental property means any dwelling or dwelling unit which is being held
out or being offered for rent or is currently being let for rent or occupied by
any person who is not the owner of the premises. This shall apply to any
landlord-tenant relationship, regardless of the form of the contract used to
create that relationship, including, but not limited to, rent-to-own
arrangements. However, the following properties shall not be regarded as rental
properties:
   A.   Hotels and Bed and Breakfast Inns as defined by Chapter 137 of the Code
of Iowa .
   B.   All facilities that are licensed or certified by the Iowa Department of
Inspections and Appeals.
125.03 REGISTRATION OF RENTAL PROPERTIES.
The owner of a rental property is required to register the owner's rental
property with the City by filing a completed registration form (as provided by
the City) with the Clerk accompanied by a fee for each dwelling or dwelling
unit described in the registration form and in an amount as established from
time to time by the Council by appropriate resolution. Each owner must
thereafter renew its registration annually by July 31 by filing a completed
registration form (as provided by the City) with the Clerk, accompanied by
payment of the fee as described above. Registration forms shall be available at
the office of the Clerk during regular business hours. Upon receipt of the
completed registration form and registration fee, and upon completion of the
inspection certifying compliance with the property standards described in this
chapter, a rental permit will be issued to the owner.
125.04 RENTAL PERMIT REQUIRED.
1.   Except as otherwise provided herein, no owner shall rent or offer for rent
any dwelling or dwelling unit for use in whole or in part for human habitation
unless a rental permit has been issued for each dwelling unit. If a completed
registration form, together with the required fee, has been received by the
City, but the inspection cannot be completed within a reasonable time or prior
to the expiration of the existing permit, then the City Manager is authorized
to issue a temporary rental permit pending completion of the inspection of the
dwelling unit by the City, and which will thereby authorize occupancy of the
dwelling unit for the period designated in the temporary permit.
2.    No person shall occupy a dwelling unit unless a valid rental permit has
been issued for the dwelling limit.
125.05 CONSENT TO INSPECTION.
By filing a registration form with the City, the owner is granting its consent
to an inspection of the rental property by the City for the purpose of
determining compliance with the property standards set forth in this chapter.
125.06 INSPECTION OF RENTAL PROPERTY AND ISSUANCE OF RENTAL PERMIT.
1.   Rental properties shall be inspected and permits authorizing occupancy
shall be issued as follows:
   A.   Inspection. The Inspector will inspect registered rental properties for
conformity to the standards set forth herein. The owner or manager or their
designee shall be present at the time set for inspection and shall accompany
the inspector during each inspection. The owner shall advise the occupant of
these arrangements and of the occupant's right to also be present during the
inspection .
   B.   Issuance or Denial of the Rental Permit. If the City Manager finds that
the dwelling unit substantially conforms to the minimum standards as set forth
therein, then the rental permit shall thereupon be issued to the owner. If the
inspection determines that the dwelling unit does not substantially conform to
the standards, then the City will notify the owner of the specific findings of
nonconformity and of the date by which abatement of these nonconforming
conditions must be completed. In the event that the period for abatement
extends beyond the expiration of the rental permit, then the City may issue a
temporary rental permit for this abatement period unless the nonconforming
conditions are deemed to be an immediate threat to the health and safety of the
occupants. The City will re-inspect the property following expiration of the
abatement deadline to confirm compliance with the property standards .
   C.   Transfer of ownership. Upon transfer of ownership of the property for
which the rental permit has been issued, the new owner or manager of the
property shall apply for a transfer of the rental permit within 30 days after
the date of transfer of ownership of the residential rental property. If
application for transfer is timely made, then the rental permit will be
transferred to the new owner or operator without charge or without further
inspection and the rental permit will expire on the expiration date of the
previous rental permit. If the application for transfer is not timely filed,
then the City may cancel the rental permit and require registration of the unit
and reinspection before a rental permit is issued.
125.07 RENTAL PERMIT EFFECTIVENESS.
1.   Except as otherwise provided herein, a rental permit issued by the City
shall remain effective until the following City rental inspection.
2.    Except as otherwise provided herein, inspections for each rental property
will take place in an annual or three-year rotation. Rental properties that are
found not to substantially conform to the minimum standards as set forth herein
will be on an annual rotation. Rental properties that are found to
substantially conform to the minimum standards as set forth herein will be on a
three-year rotation. Rental properties with 12 or more units and professional
management that are found to substantially conform to the minimum standards as
set forth herein will be on a three-year rotation and half of their units may
be inspected each time.
3.    In the event that the owner or manager of a rental property does not file
a registration form and pay the required fee within 30 days following the
expiration of the rental permit in any year, the City may, in its discretion,
require reinspection of the property as a condition for renewal of the rental
permit.
125.08 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
1.   A rental permit will be subject to revocation at any time after 10-days
prior written notice to the owner or manager upon the following occurrences:
   A.   Failure to timely file a registration form or timely pay the required
fee and failure to cure this default within 10 days following receipt of the
notice of noncompliance by the owner or manager.
   B.   Discovery of nonconforming conditions on the property and which are not
abated within the time period prescribed for abatement by the City in its
notification to the owner or manager of nonconforming conditions .
   C.   Conviction or judgment by a judge or judicial magistrate of the Iowa
District Court finding a violation of any provision of this chapter.
2.    In the event that the City Manager determines that the conditions of the
rental property present an immediate threat to the health and safety of the
occupants thereof or of neighboring properties, then the rental permit may be
revoked immediately without prior notice to the owner or manager.
125.09 INSPECTION UPON COMPLAINT.
1.   In addition to the inspections conducted by the City in conjunction with
the issuance or renewal of rental permits, the City is authorized to inspect
any rental property for compliance with the standards set forth herein upon
receiving a complaint from:
   A.   An occupant of the rental property concerning conditions on the
property. The complaint shall be filed with the Clerk on a form provided by the
City. This form shall include a provision requiring the complainant to certify
that they have registered a complaint with the landlord or manager at least 14
days prior to filing the complaint with the City and without receiving a
satisfactory response from the owner or manager.
   B.   The owner or manager of the rental property concerning conditions on
the property.
   C.   An employee or representative of a local, State, or federal unit of
government while acting within that role.
   D.   A third party (not anonymous) that files a written complaint.
2.    In whatever case, a landlord will not be charged any inspection-related
fees if a complaint is unfounded.
125.10 REQUIRED ABATEMENT OF NONCONFORMING CONDITION.
Any owner who fails to abate nonconforming conditions, after receiving notice
of noncompliance and within the time period prescribed by the City for
abatement of these nonconforming conditions, is in violation of this Code of
Ordinances.
125.11 PROPERTY STANDARDS.
Along with satisfying the requirements of ordinances, such as the Nuisance
regulations (
Chapter 50), Dangerous Buildings (
Chapter 145), including the Property Maintenance Standards (Section
145.04), all rental properties must substantially conform to the following
provisions:
1.    The lawn of the rental facility must be graded and drained in a way that
it stays free of standing water.
2.    Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a public
nuisance. Stormwater shall not be discharged into the sanitary sewer.
3.    All exterior doors shall have safe, functioning locks.
4.    Every dwelling unit shall have at least one means of egress and every
room suitable for sleeping will have a minimum of one emergency escape and
rescue opening in addition to the room's entry door. However, where a lawful
structure exists on the effective date of this chapter, such structure may be
continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions:
   A.   No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way in which
increases its nonconformity.
   B.   Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more
than 50 percent of its replacement cost at the time of destruction, it shall
not be reconstructed except in conformity with this title.
   C.   Should the premises upon which this structure is located be remodeled,
rehabilitated, or undergo a major reconstruction, the structure must be brought
into compliance with this chapter's requirements for egress. For purposes of
this section, major reconstruction or rehabilitation shall be defined as
construction, reconstruction, or rehabilitation of the premises the cost of
which exceeds 35 percent of the full taxable value of the improvements of the
subject property, excluding the land. This subsection shall not apply in cases
of undue financial hardship or where to do so would cause the property owner to
violate historic preservation requirements as determined by the City.
   D.   A sleeping room in a basement unit without emergency exterior exit
shall not be considered or afforded status as a nonconforming use.
   E.   Sleeping rooms located on floors above the ground floor are exempt from
the emergency escape and rescue opening requirement when there are two or more
exits from that floor on opposing sites of the building .
5.    Every window, skylight, door, and frame shall be kept in sound condition,
in good repair, and shall not be boarded up. Glass shall be free from major
cracks and holes.
6.    Bathroom facilities and fixtures shall be maintained in a safe and
functional condition, free from leaks.
7.    At least one bathroom with a properly working flush-type toilet must be
provided.
8.    A properly working lavatory sink shall be provided.
9.    A properly working bathtub or shower shall be provided.
10.    Kitchen facilities must be provided, including a working sink and water
supply.
11.    Kitchen appliances, if provided by landlord, must be in working order.
12.    Every stairway shall be maintained in sound condition and in good
repair. No permanent obstructions are permitted in hallways or stairways.
13.    Each interior door shall be easily operable and in good repair.
14.    Ceilings and interior walls shall be free from holes (excluding nail
holes), in good repair and cover the building structure.
15.    Floors shall be sound and permanent floor coverings shall be free from
tripping hazards.
16.    A safe and adequate smoke detector(s) must be provided in compliance
with Iowa Administrative Code, Chapter 210; Smoke Detectors as amended from
time to time.
17.    No tenant shall remove or disconnect any smoke detecting device.
18.    Every rental unit shall be connected to a safe electrical service
provider.
19.    All fixtures and outlets shall be in a safe and functional condition or
properly covered. Ground-Fault Circuit Interrupters (GFCI) are required for
electrical outlets within six feet of a water source.
20.    No temporary wiring or extension cords shall be used except extension
cords which run directly from portable electric fixtures to convenient outlets,
and which do not lie beneath floor coverings or extend through doorways,
transoms, or similar apertures in structural elements or attached thereto.
21.    Every rental unit shall be connected to a City or County approved water
system.
22.    Every rental unit shall be connected to the City's sanitary sewer or a
septic system that is in proper working order.
23.    Dwelling must have an adequate heated water system. Water heaters shall
be able to provide hot water to every sink, bathtub, shower, and laundry
facility. The property owner shall ensure proper installation and maintenance
of water heater(s).
24.    The dwelling must have safe and properly working heating facilities in
all habitable rooms and bathrooms.
25.    Every rental unit must offer cooling by means of operable windows or a
working cooling system. Every bathroom must offer an operable window or a
ventilation fan.
26.    No dwelling or the premises thereof shall be used for the storage or
handling of refuse.
27.    No dwelling shall foster a situation where rodent or pest infestation is
a problem. Examples of this may include, but are not limited to, the actual
evidence of pests.
28.    Every structure shall be free from obvious mold growth.
29.    All shared or public areas of such dwellings must be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition.
30.    The owner must arrange for the removal of ice and snow. Such an
arrangement can include an agreement where this duty is assigned to a tenant,
but the ultimate responsibility for this is the owner s.
31.    If provided by the owner, lighting of all exterior parking lots and
walkways must be effective.
32.    If provided by the owner, parking areas and driveways must be maintained
in proper condition.
33.    The owner must arrange for the maintenance of the yard(s) of the
dwelling. Such an arrangement can include an agreement where this duty is
assigned to a tenant, but the ultimate responsibility for this is the owners.
34.    No occupant shall keep or store property of any kind in any shared
public area of the dwelling and premises thereof, nor shall any occupant place
any garbage, refuse, or rubbish in any such shared or public area other than a
designated area per Code of Iowa.
35.    Every address must be visible from the street. A multi-unit rental
property with emergency escape and rescue openings and exits to an alley must
have the address visible from the alley. Multi-unit rental properties must have
at least one entrance to each dwelling unit marked.
125.12 MANDATORY BACKGROUND CHECKS.
Owners and managers of all rental properties for which a rental permit is
required must substantially conform to the following provisions:
1.    Background Checks Required. Permit holders shall perform a criminal
background check on all persons 18 years of age or older who newly occupy a
rental unit as of the effective date of this chapter, whether or not the person
(s) has signed a lease. This requirement shall not apply with regard to persons
already occupying a given rental unit prior to that date.
2.    Minimum Requirements of Background Checks. Background checks must be
obtained through the Police Department. Background checks as referenced here
shall include the following at a minimum:
   A.   A report of activity from Iowa Courts Online.
   B.   A report from the Iowa Sex Offender Registry and the National Sex
Offender Website maintained by the United States Department of Justice.
   C.   Permit holders are encouraged, but not required, to obtain additional
background information they deem appropriate.
   D.   Nothing herein shall be construed to indicate any preference or
recommendation on the part of the City as to the selection of a tenant.
3.    Exemptions. The criminal background check requirement is waived under any
of these conditions:
   A.   The tenant is personally known to the landlord, or;
   B.   The rental property has no history of any documented code violations
within the previous 12 months, or;
   C.   The landlord can demonstrate that an independent reference check was
completed on the potential tenant(s), or;
   D.   The landlord can demonstrate that a criminal background check from
another source, but similar to the City s, was performed on each applicable
tenant. It is a violation of this chapter for a landlord to untruthfully claim
an exemption to the background check requirement.
4.    Proof of Background Check. Upon the City's request, owners and managers
must be able to show proof that the background check requirement has been met.
125.13 MANDATORY WRITTEN LEASE OR RENTAL AGREEMENT.
Owners and managers of all rental properties for which a rental permit is
required must have written leases or rental agreements with their tenants.
1.    Minimum Components. Such agreements must:
   A.   List all occupants of the rental unit.
   B.   Indicate where a rental unit is located.
   C.   Provide the terms of the agreement, including the amount of rent and
when it is due.
   D.   Establish who.is responsible for utility costs.
   E.   Provide terms for the landlord's access to the rental unit, such as 24-
hour notice, emergencies, and welfare checks.
   F.   Provide for a method for the landlord and tenant to give written
notices to each other, including complete contact information for each party.
   G.   Provide that tenants shall not commit any act or allow any activity to
occur on the leased premises which violate any federal, State, or local laws,
regulations, or ordinances which are in effect, or which may be enacted during
the term of the lease or rental agreement.
   H.   Describe an arrangement or responsibilities for emergency relocation of
tenant(s), if ever needed.
2.    Proof of Lease or Rental Agreement. Upon the City's request, owners and
managers must be able to show proof that a lease or rental agreement is
currently in force.
3.    Exemptions. The requirement for a written lease or rental agreement is
waived under these conditions:
   A.   The landlord and tenant have a familial relationship (defined as
spouse, parents, children, brothers, sisters, grandparents, grandchildren,
brother-in-law, sister-in-law, mother-in-law, father-in-law, and stepfamily) .
125.14 FEES.
The following fees will be assessed to and paid by rental property owners in an
amount as established from time to time by the Council by appropriate
resolution:
1.    Registration fee. Due upon filing initial and subsequent annual
registration of rental properties with the Clerk. The registration fee will be
reduced by 50 percent for new rental units registered between January 1 and
June 30.
2.    Reinspection Fee or Additional Inspection Fee. Due and payable for each
inspection of a dwelling or dwelling unit that is in addition to an inspection
required by this chapter, including occasions when the owner or manager doesn t
appear for an inspection.
3.    Complaint Inspection Fee. Due and payable for each inspection conducted
by the City pursuant to a founded complaint filed with the Clerk.
4.    Failure to Appear Fee. Due and payable upon failure of the owner or
manager to appear at a scheduled inspection of a dwelling or dwelling unit.
5.    Criminal Background Check Fee. This can be free-of-charge or for a fee
that is due and payable at the time the service is performed. Permits will not
be issued nor inspections made until the fees required by this section have
been received by the Clerk.
125.15 APPEAL.
Any person aggrieved by a decision of the City in its administration of this
chapter may file a request with the City Manager's office, on a form provided
by the City, and directed to the City Manager requesting reconsideration of the
contested decision. The City Manager will notify the applicant, in writing,
within five days after its receipt by the City, of their decision. If the
aggrieved party is not satisfied with the response of the City Manager, the
aggrieved party may, within 10 days following the date of the City Manager's
response, file a written appeal to the City's Property Maintenance Board, on a
form provided by the City, requesting reconsideration of the contested
decision. This written appeal shall be filed with the City Manager. The City
Manager will thereupon notify the aggrieved party of the date, time, and place
of hearing before the Property Maintenance Board and at such hearing the
aggrieved party may present testimony and evidence in support of their
position. The Property Maintenance Board will render an opinion on this appeal
within 10 days following the date of the hearing.
125.16 IMPLEMENTATION OF CHAPTER.
The City may implement the registration and inspection of rental properties in
stages in order to facilitate an orderly inspection of all rental properties
requiring rental permits. The City may issue temporary rental permits to owners
pending inspection of rental properties for which registration forms have been
filed.
125.17 VIOLATIONS.
The violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a violation of
this Code of Ordinances and subject the violator to the following penalties:
1.    Any violation of this chapter or failure to perform any act or duty or
requirement of this chapter shall constitute a municipal infraction under
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
2.    The foregoing provisions concerning enforcement of this chapter are not
exclusive but are cumulative to any other remedies available under State law or
local ordinance.
CHAPTER 126
PAWNSHOPS
 
126.01 Definition                       126.04 Purchases, Security, and
                                        Consignment Transactions
126.02 Required Records                 126.05 Inspection for Stolen Property
126.03 Purchases from Minors Restricted
 
126.01 DEFINITION.
A pawnbroker means any person who makes loans or advancements upon pawn,
pledge, or deposit of personal property, or who receives actual possession of
personal property as security for a loan, with or without a mortgage or bill of
sale, or otherwise hold themselves out as a pawnbroker.
126.02 REQUIRED RECORDS.
1.   When goods or materials described in Section
126.04 are received by purchase, as security or on consignment, it shall be the
duty of the person or organization receiving the goods or materials to
permanently record in the English language on serially numbered, triplicate
forms approved by the Police Chief. All forms printed whether used or voided
shall be accounted for by the licensee. The forms shall contain the following
information:
   A.   Name and address of the person from whom it was received with the means
of identification used, i.e., driver's license, birth certificate, etc.;
   B.   Date, time and place of the transaction;
   C.   A detailed and accurate description of each article received including
serial numbers or identifying marks. In the case of junk, a general description
of the composition of aggregate purchase is sufficient;
   D.   A record of whether the transaction was a purchase, a security or
consignment transaction;
   E.   A record of monies paid or loaned, and which may be maintained
separately but which must be available for inspection in the course of
examination of individual transaction;
   F.   A record of name, address and how an article was disposed of, if not
redeemed. This subsection does not apply to disposition of junk.
   G.   All forms, whether used or not, shall be maintained in numerical
sequence.
2.    All receipts and records pertaining to the receipt of goods and materials
as described in this chapter shall be open to inspection during regular
business hours by any police officer acting in the course of official duty and
under the direction of the Police Chief or the Chief Investigating Officer of
the Police Department.
3.    Failure to keep such records, or making false entries therein, or refusal
to produce the same when requested by the persons entitled to inspect the same
shall be a municipal infraction.
4.    Every pawnbroker shall make available all such records immediately upon
demand of any police officer.
126.03 PURCHASES FROM MINORS RESTRICTED.
No pawnbroker, and no clerk, agent, or employee thereof shall purchase or
receive property from any person under the age of 18 years without first
obtaining and receiving the written consent of the parent or guardian of such
person. Such written consent shall be made a part of the required records and
subject to all provisions of Section
126.02.
126.04 PURCHASES, SECURITY, AND CONSIGNMENT TRANSACTIONS.
1.   The purchase, receipt as security, or on consignment of the following
listed goods or materials shall be governed by this chapter:
   A.   Bicycles
   B.   Electronic equipment
   C.   Glassware
   D.   Household appliances
   E.   Household furniture
   F.   Jewelry
   G.   Junk
   H.   Lawn and garden tools equipment and furnishings
   I.   Motor vehicle parts and equipment
   J.   Photographic/video parts and equipment
   K.   Precious and semiprecious stones
   L.   Precious metals and coins
   M.   Radio equipment
   N.   Rare books
   O.   Silver/silverware
   P.   Sporting goods
   Q.   Stereo equipment
   R.   Television equipment
   S.   Tools
   T.   Untitled motor vehicles
   U.   Works of art
2.    Antique, used, or scrap jewelry and precious metals shall be retained in
the local place of business and it shall be unlawful to change the form of said
items by melting, remounting, cutting up, or otherwise changing the form of
said items for a period of 120 hours from the time of said transaction.
3.    The following listed items shall be exempt from the provisions of this
chapter: Beverage containers and scrap paper.
126.05 INSPECTION FOR STOLEN PROPERTY.
Whenever any police officer shall have reason to believe that any pawnbroker
has in their possession or on their premises any stolen property, the police
officer shall have the right and duty to enter and inspect the pawnbroker's
premises for the purpose of recovering stolen property.
CHAPTER 127
VACANT BUILDING REGISTRATION
 
127.01 Purpose                   127.06 Placement on Vacant Building Registry
127.02 Definitions               127.07 Removal from Vacant Building Registry
127.03 Applicability             127.08 Vacant Building Registry Conditions
127.04 Registration Required     127.09 Enforcement
127.05 Registration Requirements 127.10 Fees and Penalties
 
127.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to ensure that vacant properties conform to
minimum standards deemed necessary for the protection of health and safety of
residents.
127.02 DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.    Accessory building or structure means a detached building or structure on
the same lot, with and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to
the principle building or structure or use of the land, i.e., a garden house,
greenhouse, garage, carport, shed, fence, or retaining wall.
2.    Building means any structure used or intended for supporting or
sheltering any use or occupancy.
3.    Exterior premises means the open space on the premises or the portion of
the premises upon which there is not a structure.
4.    Good repair means free from blighting and hazardous conditions, capable
of serving its intended purpose, clean and sanitary, and in safe condition.
5.    Imminent hazard means a condition which could cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
6.    Junk means scrap metals or scrap materials, abandoned, dismantled, or
partially dismantled machinery, motor vehicles, other vehicles, or appliances.
7.    Mixed occupancy means a structure used in part for residential use and in
part for some other use not accessory thereto.
8.    Occupant means any person who leases or lawfully resides in a building or
premises, or a portion of a building or premises.
9.    Owner means any person or business entity having a title to the premises,
as recorded in the Office of the Recorder, or as recorded on the County
assessment rolls.
10.    Partially vacant means a multi-story building or structure that has one
or more stories vacant or a single or multi-story building with a vacant ground
level store front regardless of the occupancy of the remainder of the ground
floor.
11.    Problem tree means a tree or shrub that is established such that its
current condition or anticipated growth does or is likely to damage a
structure, accessory building, sidewalk, driveway, street, or utilities.
12.    Refuse means all garbage, rubbish, ashes, or other substances offensive
to sight or smell, dangerous to the public health or detrimental to the best
interests of the community.
13.    Responsible person means a natural person who is the owner, operator, or
manager of any building, structure, or premises and is responsible for the
property's maintenance and management.
14.    Structure means anything constructed or erected, which requires location
on the ground or attached to something having location on the ground.
15.    Vacant means a structure, floor, or store front that is unoccupied and/
or no person or persons currently operate a lawful business open regularly or
seasonally to the public, or a residential structure that is unoccupied and not
actively offered for rent or sale.
16.    Weeds mean plants identified as weeds by Chapter 317 of the Code of Iowa
(2020), as amended.
127.03 APPLICABILITY.
1.   General. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all manufacturing,
commercial, industrial, mixed occupancy, and residential buildings vacant for
180 consecutive days, and all manufacturing, commercial, industrial, mixed
occupancy, and residential buildings, which have been partially vacant for 180
days.
2.    Conflict. In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in
conflict with a provision of the Code of Ordinances, the provision which
established the higher standard for the protection of the public health,
safety, and welfare shall prevail.
3.    Application of Other Ordinances. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed
to authorize the use of a structure or premises contrary to any other provision
of the Code of Ordinances or the Zoning Code. Repairs, additions, or
alterations to a structure shall be done in accordance with the City Zoning
Code and Building Code and applicable procedures and provisions of State law.
4.    Existing Remedies. The provisions in this section shall not be construed
to abolish or impair existing remedies of the City, or its officers or
agencies, under State laws or this Code of Ordinances, including, but not
limited to, zoning regulations, nuisance regulations, or other regulations
relating to the removal or demolition of any structure which is dangerous,
abandoned, unsafe and unsanitary, or the abatement of public nuisances.
5.    Historic Buildings. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to
structures designated by the federal government, State, or County as historic
buildings.
127.04 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
1.   The owner of any vacant building or structure or partially vacant building
or structure to which this section applies shall submit a vacant building
registry application within 30 days of becoming vacant. Upon enactment of this
chapter of the City Code, any vacant or partially vacant building must have a
vacant building registry application submitted no later than August 1, 2020.
2.    Application to the vacant building registry shall be made by completing a
vacant building registry application form, which shall be submitted to the
Clerk.
3.    The registry application form shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
   A.   Contact information for the owner(s).
   B.   Proof of liability insurance for the building, with coverage for the
annual registration duration, meeting a specified minimum coverage.
   C.   If the owner does not reside within 100 miles of the City or if the
owner opts to designate a responsible person, contact information for the
responsible person who resides within 100 miles of the City.
   D.   An acknowledgement by the owner that grass and weeds shall not exceed a
height of eight inches.
   E.   An acknowledgement by the owner that snow and ice shall be removed from
the public right-of way within 24 hours of snow fall.
   F.   An acknowledgment by the owner that junk and junk vehicles will not be
allowed.
   G.   Date and time for an inspection.
4.    Vacant Building Registration Renewal. The owner must maintain a valid
vacant building registration for any building or structure to which this
section applies and must continue to renew the registration annually as long as
the building or structure remains vacant. All vacant building permits will be
renewable August 1 and considered overdue on September 1. Failure to obtain or
renew a vacant building registration will be considered a municipal infraction.
5.    All buildings new to the vacant building registry will be inspected by
the Building Official, Police Department, or Public Works. Inspection at
renewal may be scheduled at the City's discretion.
127.05 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
A vacant building may only be added to the registry or renewed if the building
or structure which is subject to the registry application or renewal satisfies
the following requirements:
1.    Code Compliant. All buildings or structures subject to the application
shall comply with all property maintenance, parking, junk car, and other
applicable sections of the Code of Ordinances.
2.    Vacant Building Maintenance Standards. All buildings or structures
subject to the application shall adequately protect the building from intrusion
by trespassers and pests and from deterioration by the weather. The buildings
must also comply with the following vacant building maintenance standards:
   A.   Building Openings. Doors, windows, areaways, and other openings shall
be weather tight and secured against entry by birds, vermin, and trespassers.
Missing or broken glass in doors, windows and other such openings shall be
repaired or replaced with glass. No building opening shall be boarded. All
first floor or ground level windows, doors, and openings shall be free of any
posters, paper, or fabric coverings.
   B.   Waste Removal. All waste, yard waste, refuse, garbage, and junk shall
be removed from the interior of the building or structure and surrounding
premises.
   C.   Roofs. The roof and flashings shall be sound and tight, not admit
moisture, or have defects which might admit moisture, rain, or roof draining
and shall allow for sufficient drainage to prevent dampness or deterioration in
the interior of the building.
   D.   Drainage. The building storm drainage system shall be functional and
installed in an approved manner, and allow discharge in an approved manner.
   E.   Building Structure. The building shall be maintained in good repair and
structurally sound. The building shall be maintained in a sanitary manner and
in a manner that does not pose a threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare.
   F.   Structural Members. The structural members shall be free of
deterioration and capable of safely bearing imposed dead and live loads.
   G.   Foundation Walls. The foundation walls shall be maintained structurally
sound and in a sanitary condition so as not to pose a threat to the public
health, safety, and welfare, shall be capable of supporting the load which
normal use may cause to be placed thereon, and shall be free from open cracks
and breaks, free from leaks, and be animal proof.
   H.   Exterior Walls. The exterior walls shall be free of holes, breaks, and
loose or rotting materials. Exposed metal, wood, or other surfaces shall be
protected from the elements and against decay or rust by periodic applications
of weather-coating materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
   I.   Decorative Features. The signs, trim, and similar decorative features
shall be safe, anchored, and in good repair. Exposed metal, wood, or other
surfaces shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust by
periodic applications of weather-coating materials, such as paint or similar
surface treatment.
   J.   Overhanging Extensions. All balconies, canopies, marquees, signs, metal
awnings, stairways, fire escapes, standpipes, exhaust ducts, and similar
features shall be in good repair, anchored, safe, and sound. Exposed metal,
wood, or other surfaces shall be protected from the elements and against decay
or rust by periodic applications of weather-coating materials, such as paint or
similar surface treatment.
   K.   Chimneys and Towers. Chimneys, cooling towers, smokestacks, and similar
appurtenances shall be structurally safe and in good repair. Exposed metal,
wood, or other surfaces shall be protected from the elements and against decay
or rust by periodic applications of weather-coating materials, such as paint or
similar surface treatment.
   L.   Walkways. Public sidewalks and walkways shall be in good repair.
   M.   Accessory Building or Structures. Accessory buildings and structures
shall be in good repair.
   N.   Exterior Premises. The surrounding premises upon which the structure or
building is located shall be clean, safe, sanitary, and free from waste,
rubbish, garbage, and weeds; shall not be used for exterior storage, and shall
not pose a threat to public health, welfare, or safety. Problem trees and
shrubs shall be trimmed or removed.
127.06 PLACEMENT ON VACANT BUILDING REGISTRY.
The Clerk shall place a building on the vacant building registry upon being
satisfied that the building has been inspected and is in compliance with all
applicable provisions of this chapter. Within three days following notification
of placement on the vacant building registry, the owner shall post a sign in a
prominent location on the building, visible from the nearest street, that
includes the name, street address (not a P.O. Box), and phone number of the
current owner(s) or owner's agent.
127.07 REMOVAL FROM VACANT BUILDING REGISTRY.
Within 30 days of a building no longer meeting the standards of vacant or
partially vacant, the owner shall notify the Clerk of the occupancy, occupant,
and duration of occupation. Such notification shall be subject to the consent
to entry, below, to verify the change in vacancy status.
127.08 VACANT BUILDING REGISTRY CONDITIONS.
All permits issued are subject to all other applicable conditions of the Code
of Ordinances and the following additional conditions:
1.    Consent to Entry. All applicants and owners of registered vacant
buildings consent to the entry of duly authorized officials of the City at all
reasonable hours and upon reasonable notice for the purpose of inspection.
Refusal to consent to entry shall be a violation of this section.
2.    Consent to Emergency Inspections and Emergency Repairs. All applicants
and owners holding a permit consent to the entry of duly authorized officials
of the City if such official has reason to believe than an emergency situation
exists with respect to the building or structure that tends to create an
imminent hazard to health, welfare, or safety of the general public, in the
discretion of such official, then such official may enter the building to
inspect the premises, without notifying the responsible party or obtaining a
warrant. If such official finds an emergency situation exists in fact, which
presents an imminent hazard to the health, welfare, or safety of the general
public, then such official may cause any reasonable action, including the
employment of necessary labor and materials, to perform emergency repairs to
alleviate the hazard. City employees will confer with legal counsel prior to
entering or causing entry to be made to premises or performing any emergency
repairs without prior owner notification and consent. Costs incurred in the
performance of emergency repairs may be paid by the City and if so paid, the
City may levy a special assessment against the property to recover the costs.
3.    Consent to Inspection by a Qualified Expert. All applicants and owners
holding a permit consent to the entry of authorized experts assisting a duly
qualified official of the City if such official has reason to believe than an
emergency situation exists with respect to the building or structure that tends
to create an imminent hazard to health, welfare, or safety of the general
public, in the discretion of such official, then such expert may enter the
building to inspect the premises, without notifying the responsible party or
obtaining a warrant. Costs incurred in expert evaluation may be paid by the
City and if so paid, the City may levy a special assessment against the
property to recover the costs.
127.09 ENFORCEMENT.
1.   Authorized Officials. The Building Official shall have the authority to
enforce the provisions of this section and to exercise the powers and duties
specified in this section and may delegate their authority to appropriate City
personnel as their designee.
2.    Authorized officials shall issue orders to repair for work needed:
   A.   To adequately protect the building from intrusion by trespassers and
from deterioration by the weather;
   B.   To comply with the vacant building maintenance standards set forth in
this section;
   C.   To ensure that allowing the building to remain will not be detrimental
to public health, safety, and welfare, will not unreasonably interfere with the
reasonable and lawful use and enjoyment of other premises within the
neighborhood; or
   D.   To eliminate any hazards to police officers or firefighters that may
enter the premises in times of emergency.
3.    When issuing Orders to Repair, the authorized official shall specify the
deadline for completion of the repair required and shall deliver the notice to
the owner or responsible person identified in the permit. All work done
pursuant to this chapter shall be done in compliance with any applicable
building, fire, property maintenance, and Zoning Codes and Ordinances.
4.    An inspection may be conducted after the deadline for repair as stated in
the order.
5.    Revocation, Reinstatement Measures. If a vacant building is removed from
the registry by the authorized official for noncompliance with any provisions
of this Code, the owner of the building shall be given 30 days to comply with
the provisions of this Code. Extensions of such 30-day period may be granted at
the discretion of the Building Official. Upon expiration of the 30-day period,
or any extension thereof, if the building continues to be noncompliant, a
municipal infraction will be issued.
127.10 FEES AND PENALTIES.
1.   The fee for application to the vacant building registry shall be
determined by the Council.
   A.   To compensate the City for its inspection and administrative costs
reasonably related to the enforcement, a fee established by the Council through
resolution, may be charged for any inspection following the initial inspection
which resulted in an order for corrective action.
   B.   Failure to pay applicable inspection fees within 30 days of mailing an
invoice to the property owner of record shall constitute a violation of this
chapter for which a municipal infraction citation may be issued.
CHAPTER 128
MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
 
128.01 Definitions                  128.06 Application Fee
128.02 Mobile Food Vendor Permit    128.07 Compliance with the Law
Required
128.03 Mobile Food Vending Unit     128.08 Suspension or Revocation of Permit
Licensing Application
128.04 Mobile Food Vendor Locations 128.09 Exceptions
128.05 Property Owner or Lessee
Responsibility
 
128.01 DEFINITIONS.
1.    Event means any activity held on City public property where a mobile food
vending unit is proposed to be located or to participate.
2.    Food means a raw, cooked, or processed edible substance, ice, beverage,
or ingredient used or intended for use or for sale in whole or in part for
human consumption, or chewing gum.
3.    Mobile food vending unit means a food establishment that is self-
contained, with the exception of grills and smokers, and readily movable, such
as a bustaurant, food cart, food stand, food trailer, food truck, and food
wagon.
4.      Mobile food vendor means a person, corporation, entity, or group
obtaining a license to prepare, market or sell food from a mobile food vending
unit.
5.    Mobile food vendor sales means an exchange of prepared, packaged, or
prepared food for American currency at a set price, not for goodwill donation
or for free.
128.02 MOBILE FOOD VENDOR PERMIT REQUIRED.
It shall be unlawful to operate as a mobile food vendor in the City of
Maquoketa, whether on private or public property, without first obtaining a
Mobile Food Vendor Permit from the City. A Mobile Food Vendor Permit shall be
subject to the following:
1.    A Mobile Food Vendor Permit is an annual permit that expires on December
31st each year.
2.    When operating on City property as part of an event, an event application
must be submitted by the hosting business and permit obtained by the mobile
food vendor.
3.    Each mobile food vending unit shall be permitted separately. Permits may
not be transferred from one mobile food vending unit to another.
4.    Mobile food vendors shall comply with State inspection requirements and
display State issued permits in full view of the public in or on the mobile
food vending unit.
5.    All mobile food vending units shall have working fire suppression
systems.
128.03 MOBILE FOOD VENDING UNIT LICENSING APPLICATION.
1.   Filing. Applications shall be filed with the Clerk's office. No
application shall be accepted for consideration unless it conforms to the
requirements of this chapter, is complete, truthful, includes all required
attachments, and payment of the appropriate fee.
2.    Timely Submittal. Unless otherwise provided herein, applications shall be
submitted not less than seven calendar days prior to the proposed commencement
date of mobile food vending unit services. For purposes of calculating the
seven-day period, the day of submission shall count while the first day of
proposed services shall not count. The City reserves the right to reject any
applications that have not been timely submitted.
3.    Application Contents. Application shall be made on a form provided by the
City and shall include:
   A.   Full name of applicant;
   B.   Applicant's contact information including mailing address, phone number
(s), photo identification, and e-mail address;
   C.   Make, model, and year of any registered vehicle, trailer, and the like
to be used to transport or as the mobile food vending unit;
   D.   Proof of food service permit, safety certificate, and inspection
reports;
   E.   Liability Insurance Certificate;
   F.   Sales Tax Permit .
4.    Right to Appeal. Any applicant whose application was denied may appeal to
the Council by filing with the Clerk or the Clerk's designee a written request
for an appeal at least seven days in advance of the next regular or special
Council meeting. Upon considering an appeal, the Council may affirm, modify or
reverse the decision of the Clerk. Any applicant who has had an application
denied hereunder, shall not be eligible for the issuance of a permit for any
mobile food vending unit for a period of one year from the date of the denial.
5.    Applications Deemed Withdrawn. Any application received shall be deemed
withdrawn if it has been held in abeyance, awaiting the submittal of additional
requested information from the applicant, and if the applicant has not
communicated in writing with the City and made reasonable progress within 30
days from the last notification from the City to the applicant. Applications
deemed withdrawn shall not be eligible for the reimbursement of application
fees. Any renewed application shall require the submission of a new application
and fees.
6.    Issuance of Permit. Permits shall be issued by the Clerk or designee.
128.04 MOBILE FOOD VENDOR LOCATIONS.
1.   Parking. No mobile food vending unit shall be left unattended or stored on
any site overnight, unless that property is under the ownership or control of
(by way of a lease or other contractual agreement) the operator of the unit and
is otherwise parked or located in compliance with all Code requirements or the
mobile food unit is a participant in a multiple (contiguous) day, City
permitted, special event. Any mobile food vending unit found to be in violation
of this provision may result in the revocation of the permit, may result in the
mobile food vending unit being towed or otherwise removed or taken into
possession, and may result in the permittee being deemed ineligible for a
permit for a period of one year from said violation.
2.    Music and Sound Making Devices. The use of music or sound making devices
as a part of a mobile food vending unit shall be prohibited, unless expressly
allowed as part of an approved event.
3.    Location Requirements. Mobile food vendors must adhere to the following
requirements:
   A.   Written consent must be received from the property owner from which the
mobile food vending unit will operate. The written consent must be maintained
in the mobile food vending unit at all times and provided to local authorities,
including City staff or the Police Department, upon request. Written consent
does not excuse or otherwise reduce or eliminate any other obligations under
this Code.
   B.   City issued mobile food vending unit permit must be displayed within
public view at all times while the unit is in operation.
   C.   Mobile food vending units that are within 300 feet of a residential use
or residentially zoned property, shall only operate between 9:00 a.m. and 8:00
p.m.
   D.   Ice cream trucks and similarly operated mobile food vendor trucks may
operate between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
   E.   Mobile food vending units shall serve patrons who are on foot; there
shall be no drive-up service. Users that park and walk to the unit may be
served.
   F.   Mobile food vending units (not including pushcarts or food stands) must
be located on a paved or rocked surface.
   G.   Mobile food vending units may not be located on/in a vacant property or
structure. Exceptions may be granted by the Council after a review of the
particular circumstances of the request. The Council will consider access to
restrooms, adequate access for fire and police personnel and vehicles, and site
safety considerations.
   H.   Mobile food vending units shall maintain a minimum separation from
buildings of ten feet as measured to the closest building element including
awnings or canopies, tents, or membrane structures. Location of the food unit
shall not impede pedestrians entering or exiting a building.
   I.   The mobile food vending unit shall be designed and situated so that no
patron is required to stand or wait in line to be served in any City right-of-
way, not including sidewalks, and when ordering or waiting to be served on a
sidewalk the vendor shall ensure that there is always adequate passage for
those with disabilities under the ADA.
   J.   All signage must be attached flat to the exterior of the mobile food
vending unit and may not project more than six inches from the exterior of the
unit. No freestanding signs, banners, flags, or similar items are allowed. Off
- premises signs directing patrons to the mobile food unit are prohibited
unless expressly approved through the permitting process.
   K.   During hours, the mobile food vending unit shall be served by a trash
receptacle, provided by the mobile food vendor, for use by customers and the
area shall be regularly policed and kept clean by the vendor.
   L.   Mobile food vending units shall not create a safety hazard, such as
blocking emergency access to buildings, obstructing access to fire hydrants,
impeding ingress and egress from public or private building, creating a visual
impediment for the motoring public at drive entrances, intersections,
pedestrian crossings, or similar locations. Whether a mobile food vending unit
is being maintained or operated in violation of this provision shall be
determined in the sole discretion of City staff, including but not limited to
City law enforcement.
128.05 PROPERTY OWNER OR LESSEE RESPONSIBILITY.
Any property owner or lessee thereof, who consents to the placement of a mobile
food vending unit on property under the ownership or control of the owner or
lessee, shall be jointly and severally responsible with the vendor for
compliance with the contents of this chapter and shall ensure the safety of
pedestrians and that the mobile food vending unit does not limit access by
emergency vehicles to and location. Property owners and lessees may be held
liable, and or subject to civil penalties and enforcement action, for
violations of this chapter.
128.06 APPLICATION FEE.
The application shall be accompanied by payment of the appropriate fee as set
from time to time by resolution of the Council. Application fees, once paid,
are not reimbursable absent Council approval.
128.07 COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAW.
Mobile food vendors shall comply with all applicable federal, State, and local
laws, regulations, and rules. Non-compliance with local regulations can result
in municipal infraction and subject violator to fines up to $750.00 per
violation.
128.08 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
Any permit issued under the provisions of this chapter may be suspended or
revoked by the City as follows:
1.    Grounds. The City Manager, designee, or Council may suspend or revoke a
permit granted hereunder for the following reasons:
   A.   It is determined that the vendor has made fraudulent statements in
their application.
   B.   It is determined that the vendor has violated this chapter, or any
other relevant chapter of this Code, or any relevant chapter of applicable
State or federal law or regulation, or is otherwise conducting their business
in an unlawful manner.
   C.   It is determined that the vendor is operating their business in such a
manner as to endanger the public welfare, safety, or general order.
2.    Notice of Suspension or Revocation; Right to Appeal. The City shall cause
notice of a permit revocation to be served in person by a City official or by
mail to the vendor's address as provided on the application, which notice shall
specify the reason(s) for such action, at which time operations of the vendor
must immediately cease.
The vendor may appeal the revocation to the Council by filing with the Clerk or
the Clerk's designee a written request for an appeal at least seven days in
advance of the next regular or special Council meeting. Upon considering an
appeal, the Council may affirm, modify or reverse the decision of the Clerk.
Any applicant who has had an application denied hereunder, shall not be
eligible for the issuance of a permit for any mobile food vending unit for a
period of one year from the date of the denial.
128.09 EXCEPTIONS.
No permit hereunder shall be required for any vendor who solely serves patrons
during or as part of an event at the Maquoketa Farmer's Market.
CHAPTER 135
STREET USE AND MAINTENANCE
 
135.01 Removal of Warning Devices        135.08 Burning Prohibited
135.02 Obstructing or Defacing           135.09 Excavations
135.03 Placing Debris On                 135.10 Property Owner's Responsibility
                                         for Maintenance
135.04 Playing In                        135.11 Failure to Maintain
135.05 Traveling On Barricaded Street or 135.12 Dumping of Snow
Alley
135.06 Use for Business Purposes         135.13 Driveway Culverts
135.07 Washing Vehicles
 
135.01 REMOVAL OF WARNING DEVICES.
It is unlawful for a person to willfully remove, throw down, destroy, or carry
away from any street or alley any lamp, obstruction, guard, or other article or
things, or extinguish any lamp or other light, erected or placed thereupon for
the purpose of guarding or enclosing unsafe or dangerous places in said street
or alley without the consent of the person in control thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.02 OBSTRUCTING OR DEFACING.
It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, deface or injure any street or alley
in any manner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.03 PLACING DEBRIS ON.
It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street or alley any
glass, glass bottle, nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter,
offal, leaves, grass, or any other debris likely to be washed into the storm
sewer and clog the storm sewer, or any substance likely to injure any person,
animal, or vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.369)
135.04 PLAYING IN.
It is unlawful for any person to coast, sled, or play games on streets or
alleys, except in the areas blocked off by the City for such purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.05 TRAVELING ON BARRICADED STREET OR ALLEY.
It is unlawful for any person to travel or operate any vehicle on any street or
alley temporarily closed by barricades, lights, signs, or flares placed thereon
by the authority or permission of any City official, police officer, or member
of the Fire Department.
135.06 USE FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.
It is unlawful to park, store or place, temporarily or permanently, any
machinery or junk or any other goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind upon
any street or alley for the purpose of storage, exhibition, sale, or offering
same for sale, without permission of the Mayor.
135.07 WASHING VEHICLES.
It is unlawful for any person to use any public sidewalk, street, or alley for
the purpose of washing or cleaning any automobile, truck equipment, or any
vehicle of any kind when such work is done for hire or as a business. This does
not prevent any person from washing or cleaning his or her own vehicle or
equipment when it is lawfully parked in the street or alley.
135.08 BURNING PROHIBITED.
No person shall burn any trash, leaves, rubbish, or other combustible material
in any curb and gutter or on any paved or surfaced street or alley.
135.09 EXCAVATIONS.
No person shall dig, excavate, or in any manner disturb any street, parking, or
alley except in accordance with the following:
1.    Permit Required. No excavation shall be commenced without first obtaining
a permit. A written application for such permit shall be filed with the City
and shall contain the following:
   A.   An exact description of the property, by lot and street number, in
front of or along which it is desired to excavate;
   B.   A statement of the purpose, for whom and by whom the excavation is to
be made;
   C.   The person responsible for the refilling of said excavation and
restoration of the street or alley surface; and
   D.   Date of commencement of the work and estimated completion date.
2.    Public Convenience. Streets and alleys shall be opened in the manner that
will cause the least inconvenience to the public and admit the uninterrupted
passage of water along the gutter on the street.
3.    Barricades, Fencing, and Lighting. Adequate barricades, fencing, and
warning lights meeting standards specified by the City shall be so placed as to
protect the public from hazard. Any costs incurred by the City in providing or
maintaining adequate barricades, fencing, or warning lights shall be paid to
the City by the permit holder/property owner.
4.    Insurance Required. Each applicant shall also file a certificate of
insurance indicating that the applicant is carrying public liability insurance
in effect for the duration of the permit covering the applicant and all agents
and employees for the following minimum amounts:
   A.   Bodily Injury - $250,000.00 per person; $500,000.00 per accident.
   B.   Property Damage - $100,000.00 per accident.
   C.   No permit to dig or excavate in the improved street, highway, avenue,
or alley of the City shall be granted by the City when the ground is frozen to
a depth of 12 inches or more, unless in case of extreme emergency.
Each applicant shall notify the City Manager of the cancellation of liability
insurance.
5.    Restoration of Public Property. Streets, sidewalks, alleys, and other
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored to the
condition of the property prior to the commencement of the work, or in a manner
satisfactory to the City, at the expense of the permit holder/property owner.
6.    Inspection. All work shall be subject to inspection by the City. Backfill
shall not be deemed completed, and no resurfacing of any improved street or
alley surface shall begin, until such backfill is inspected and approved by the
City. The permit holder/property owner shall provide the City with notice at
least 24 hours prior to the time when inspection of backfill is desired.
7.    Completion by the City. Should any excavation in any street or alley be
discontinued or left open and unfinished for a period of 24 hours after the
approved completion date, or in the event the work is improperly done, the City
has the right to finish or correct the excavation work and charge any expenses
for such work to the permit holder/property owner.
8.    Responsibility for Costs. All costs and expenses incident to the
excavation shall be borne by the permit holder and/or property owner. The
permit holder and owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by such excavation.
9.    Notification. At least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the
excavation, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, the person
performing the excavation shall contact the Statewide Notification Center and
provide the center with the information required under Section 480.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
10.   Permit Fee. A permit shall be payable at the time of filing the
application with the City. This fee is subject to the City’s Fees & Fines
Resolution. A separate permit shall be required for each excavation.
(Subsection 10 – Ord. 1250 – Jun. 25 Supp.)
11.    Permit Issued. Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and
insurance certificate, and payment of any required fees, a permit shall be
issued.
135.10 PROPERTY OWNER S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall maintain all property outside the lot and
property lines and inside the curb lines upon public streets and shall keep
such area in a safe condition, free from nuisances, obstructions, and hazards.
In the absence of a curb, such property shall extend from the property line to
that portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes. The
abutting property owner shall not be required to remove diseased trees or dead
wood on the publicly owned property or right-of-way. Maintenance includes, but
is not limited to, timely mowing, trimming trees and shrubs, and picking up
litter and debris. The abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused
by failure to maintain the publicly owned property or right-of-way.   10
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
 
Notes
      EDITOR S NOTE: See also Section
10 136.05 relating to property owner's responsibility for maintenance of
   sidewalks.
135.11 FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
If the abutting property owner does not perform an action required under the
above section within a reasonable time, the City may perform the required
action and assess the cost against the abutting property for collection in the
same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2e])
135.12 DUMPING OF SNOW.
1.   Removal from Sidewalks. Snow or ice from sidewalks may be disposed along
the curbs of the streets prior to the commencement of the City's snow removal
operations. Snow or ice may not be disposed of on a street after the City's
snow removal operations have been completed on that street. This Section is not
applicable to snow or ice from the roofs, parking lots, driveways, and private
property other than sidewalks.
2.    Removal From Private Property.  No person shall throw, push, or place or
cause to be thrown, pushed, or placed any ice or snow from private property,
sidewalks, or driveways onto the traveled way of streets so as to obstruct
gutters, or impede the passage of vehicles upon the street or to create a
hazardous condition thereon.
3.    Removal From Commercial Drives.  Where, in the clearing of large
commercial drives in the built-up central business district it is absolutely
necessary to move the snow onto the streets temporarily, such accumulation
shall be removed promptly by the property owner or their agent, and only after
first making arrangements for such prompt removal of this accumulation at the
owner's cost within a reasonably short time.
135.13 DRIVEWAY CULVERTS.
The property owner shall, at the owner's expense, install any culvert deemed
necessary under any driveway or any other access to the owner's property, and
before installing a culvert, permission must first be obtained from the City.
In the event repairs are needed at any time with respect to culverts, it shall
be the responsibility of the property owner to make such repairs, and, in the
event the owner fails to do so, the City shall have the right to make the
repairs. If the property owner fails to reimburse the City for the cost of said
repairs, the cost shall be certified to the County Treasurer and specially
assessed against the property as by law provided.
CHAPTER 136
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
136.01 Purpose                           136.15 Sidewalk Standards
136.02 Definitions                       136.16 Barricades and Warning Lights
136.03 Removal of Snow, Ice, and         136.17 Failure to Repair or Barricade
Accumulations
136.04 Assessment Procedure When Removed 136.18 Interference with Sidewalk
by City                                  Improvements
136.05 Property Owner's Responsibility   136.19 Sidewalk Obstructions
for Maintenance
136.06 City May Order Repairs            136.20 Area Limited
136.07 Sidewalk Construction Ordered     136.21 Fires and Fuel on Sidewalks
136.08 Permit Required                   136.22 Defacing
136.09 Inspection Upon A Change in       136.23 Debris on Sidewalks
Ownership
136.10 Inspection of Private Work:       136.24 Sidewalks Required Upon New
Remedies                                 Construction
136.11 Repairing Defective Sidewalks     136.25 Sidewalk Installation and
                                         Reconstruction
136.12 Notice of Assessment of Repair    136.26 Penalty for Violations
136.13 Hearing and Assessment
136.14 Billing and Certifying to County
 
136.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to enhance safe passage by citizens on
sidewalks, to place the responsibility for the maintenance, repair,
replacement, or reconstruction of sidewalks upon the abutting property owner
and to minimize the liability of the City.
136.02 DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.    Broom finish means a sidewalk finish that is made by sweeping the
sidewalk when it is hardening.
2.    Defective sidewalk means any public sidewalk exhibiting one or more of
the following characteristics:
   A.   Vertical separations equal to one inch or more.
   B.   Horizontal separations equal to one inch or more.
   C.   Holes or depressions equal to one inch or more and at least four inches
in diameter.
   D.   Spalling over 50 percent of a single square of the sidewalk with one or
more depressions equal to one-half inch or more.
   E.   Spalling over less than 50 percent of a single square of the sidewalk
with one or more depressions equal to three-fourths inch or more.
   F.   A single square of sidewalk cracked in such a manner that no part
thereof has a piece greater than one square foot.
   G.   A sidewalk with any part thereof missing to the full depth.
   H.   A change from the design or construction grade equal to or greater than
three-fourths inch per foot.
3.    Established grade means that grade established by the City for the
particular area in which a sidewalk is to be constructed.
4.    One-course construction means that the full thickness of the concrete is
placed at one time, using the same mixture throughout.
5.    Owner means the person owning the fee title to property abutting any
sidewalk and includes any contract purchaser for purposes of notification
required herein. For all other purposes, owner includes the lessee, if any.
6.    Portland cement means any type of cement except bituminous cement.
7.    Sidewalk means all permanent public walks in business, residential or
suburban areas.
8.    Sidewalk improvements means the construction, reconstruction, repair,
replacement, or removal of a public sidewalk or the excavating, filling, or
depositing of material in the public right-of-way in connection therewith.
9.    Wood float finish means a sidewalk finish that is made by smoothing the
surface of the sidewalk with a wooden trowel.
136.03 REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, AND ACCUMULATIONS.
The abutting property owner shall remove snow, ice, and accumulations promptly
from sidewalks. If the person in possession of the premises fails to remove
snow, ice, and accumulations from the sidewalks within 24 hours. City crews are
required to remove the accumulation, then an administration fee, as established
by resolution of the Council, and any labor, material and equipment expenses,
as established by resolution of the Council, shall be assessed against the
property owner. The fees assessed shall be collected according to the procedure
set forth in Section
136.04.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2b and e])
1.    Property owners who own property along the pedestrian trail whose path is
greater than four feet will be required to remove snow and ice from the four-
foot portion of sidewalk closest to their property.
2.    Failure To Remove Downtown. Any owner in the downtown business district
who shall permit snow, ice, or accumulations to remain upon the adjoining and
abutting sidewalks for a period later than noon the day following the cessation
of the storm or cause of accumulation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
3.    It is the responsibility of the abutting property owners located on the
following streets in the downtown business district to remove snow, ice, and
accumulations from the sidewalks by noon the day following the cessation of the
storm or cause of the snow, ice, or accumulation:
   A.   Quarry Street and Pleasant Street from Olive Street to Second Street.
   B.   Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) from Olive Street to Niagara Street.
   C.   Main Street from Quarry Street to Maple Street.
   D.   Olive Street and Second Street from Pleasant Street to Quarry Street.
4.    There will be no written notice given to the property owner.
136.04 ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE WHEN REMOVED BY CITY.   
When snow, ice, or accumulations have been removed from any sidewalk, under the
provisions of the preceding section, the procedure to secure payment of the
cost of removal of snow, ice or accumulations to the City shall be as follows:
1.   
The City Manager shall submit to the Council an itemized and verified statement showing
expenditures of material, labor, and equipment used in making the removal, the name of the owner
or owners of the property, and the description of the lot, part of lot
or parcel of ground in front of and abutting upon the sidewalk from which snow,
ice, or accumulations have been removed.
2.    The Council shall examine the verified statement and if found correct
shall assess the
actual cost of the removal against the lot, part of lot, or parcel of ground and direct the Clerk
to certify the cost to the County Treasurer for collection in the same manner
as property taxes..
136.05 PROPERTY OWNER S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
It is the responsibility of the abutting property owners to maintain, repair,
replace, or reconstruct, or cause to be repaired, replaced or reconstructed,
all broken or defective sidewalks and to maintain in a safe and hazard-free
condition any sidewalk outside the lot and property lines and inside the curb
lines or traveled portion of the public street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2)(c))
1.   Periodic Inspection. On a periodic basis, sidewalks within the City shall
be inspected by the City and notice shall be sent to property owners whose
sidewalks are in need of repair.
2.   Surveying, if Required. The property owner shall pay for surveying when
required.
(Section 136.05 – Ord._1231 – Oct. 24 Supp.)
136.06 CITY MAY ORDER REPAIRS.
1.   If the abutting property owner does not maintain sidewalks as required,
the Council may serve notice on such owner, by certified mail, requiring the
owner to repair, replace or reconstruct sidewalks within a reasonable time and
if such action is not completed within the time stated in the notice, the
Council may require the work to be done and assess the costs against the
abutting property for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2d and e])
2.    Ordering New Sidewalks. The Council may, by resolution, order the
construction or reconstruction of permanent sidewalks upon any street or court.
Unless the owners of a majority of the linear feet of the property fronting on
the improvement petition the Council therefore, new permanent sidewalks shall
not be made unless three-fourths of all the members of the Council, by
resolution, order the making thereof, all in accordance with State law for
special assessments.
136.07 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION ORDERED.
The Council may order the construction of permanent sidewalks upon any street
or court in the City and may specially assess the cost of such improvement to
abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 384 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.38)
136.08 PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall remove, reconstruct, or install a sidewalk unless such person
has obtained a permit from the City and has agreed in writing that said
removal, reconstruction, or installation will comply with all ordinances and
requirements of the City for such work.
136.09 INSPECTION UPON A CHANGE IN OWNERSHIP.
Prior to the sale or transfer of any ownership interest in a lot containing an
existing sidewalk, these requirements apply:
1.    City Sidewalk Inspection Required. Before the transfer of ownership, the
seller of the interest shall provide the buyer with a written sidewalk
inspection report by the City, which shall include whether the sidewalk is
compliant with the City's sidewalk standards. There will be no charge for the
City's report.
2.    If Sidewalk Doesn t Pass Inspection. In the event that a sidewalk does
not pass inspection, the buyer or seller shall enter into a binding agreement
with the City that will state who is responsible for bringing the sidewalk into
compliance, how it will be brought into compliance, and by what date.
3.    Abutting Sidewalks. The City's sidewalk inspection at the subject
property may expand into separate inspections of nearby or neighboring
sidewalks. In such cases, the abutting property owner will be notified about
the needed repairs.
4.    Not Exempted from Inspections. The inspection requirement applies to all
types of ownership transfers not specifically exempted, including when a
seller-financed real estate contract is signed.
5.    Exempted from Inspections. The following types of real estate
transactions are exempt from the inspection requirement:
   A.   Transfer by court order.
   B.   Transfers by related parties.
   C.   Transfers by spouses in a divorce.
   D.   Transfers involving family corporations and partnerships deeding to
owners or shareholders.
136.10 INSPECTION OF PRIVATE WORK: REMEDIES.
All sidewalk improvements shall be done under the direction and supervision of
the City Engineer or their duly authorized agent, and subject to the inspection
and approval of the Engineer or their agent. Whenever any sidewalk improvements
are made which do not conform to the provisions of this chapter and with the
specifications herein referred to, or where any sidewalk improvements are made
without obtaining a permit as required by this chapter, or the work is not
performed within the time stated in the permit the City Engineer or their duly
authorized agent, shall serve upon the property owner or their agent and upon
the contractor doing the work, a notice to obtain a permit, if not already
obtained or, if the sidewalk is in the course of construction, to stop until a
permit is obtained or work is corrected in compliance with the specifications.
If the sidewalk work has been completed, the owner shall obtain a permit
immediately and perform any needed sidewalk improvement within five days from
the receipt of said permit, in the proper manner and of proper materials as
required by the specifications herein referred to. In case any owner shall fail
to do so, the officer authorized by the Council or their duly authorized agent
shall cause the sidewalk to be constructed, reconstructed, or repaired in a
proper manner and of proper materials. There shall be returned to the Council
an itemized and verified statement of expenditures of material and of the labor
used in doing such work, and the legal description of the lot, part of lot, or
parcel of ground abutting the sidewalk on which such work has been performed.
The cost thereof shall be assessed to the property fronting thereon.
136.11 REPAIRING DEFECTIVE SIDEWALKS.
It shall be the duty of the abutting property owner at any time, or upon
receipt of 30 days notice from the City, to repair, replace, or reconstruct, or
cause to be repaired, replaced, or reconstructed, all broken or defective
sidewalks in the street right-of-way abutting their property. If, upon the
expiration of 30 days as provided in said notice, the required work has not
been done or is not in the process of completion, the officer authorized by the
Council may proceed to repair, replace, or reconstruct said sidewalks, or cause
the same to be repaired, replaced, or reconstructed. There shall be returned to
the Council an itemized and verified statement of expenditures of material and
of the labor used in doing such work, and the legal description of the lot,
part of lot, or parcel of ground abutting the sidewalk on which such work has
been performed. The cost thereof shall be assessed to the property fronting
thereon.
136.12 NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT OF REPAIR.
Upon the filing of the verified statement, the Clerk shall cause a notice of
such facts to be given to the owner of the abutting property provided for in
Sections 136.10, 136.06, and 136.11, either by personal service or by mailing a
notice to the last known address of the owner. The notice shall contain a
statement of the character of the work performed; a description of the property
affected; the amount returned against such lot or parcel of ground; and that
the person may pay the amount assessed by a certain date without interest or
penalty. The notice shall also indicate that the person may object to such
assessment and the notice shall state the place and time at which the Council
will hear such objections. The time set for the hearing shall be not less than
10 days after the service or mailing of said notice.
136.13 HEARING AND ASSESSMENT.  
At the time and place designated in such notice, the Council shall meet, hear,
and consider all objections to the whole or any part of such assessment, and
shall correct all errors or omissions therein, and after such consideration,
the Council shall adopt the corrected list as the amounts to be assessed
against the property therein described.
136.14 BILLING AND CERTIFYING TO COUNTY.
If, after the adoption by the Council of the final assessment against each lot,
part of lot, or parcel of land, any assessment or any part thereof shall remain
unpaid for over 30 days after Council determination of correct charges, the
Clerk shall certify to the County Treasurer as a special tax against the lot,
part of lot, or parcel of ground all unpaid amount, which shall constitute a
lien and be collected by the County Treasurer in the same manner as all other
taxes per Section 364.13 of the Code of Iowa. No interest shall be charged for
assessments, or part thereof, paid within 30 days of the time that the Council
determined the final amounts.
136.15 SIDEWALK STANDARDS.
Sidewalks, driveways, and handicapped ramps, repaired, replaced, or constructed
under the provisions of this chapter shall be of the following construction and
meet the following standards:
1.    Cement. Portland cement, in accordance with the Standard Specifications
for the City, shall be the only cement used in the construction and repair of
sidewalks.
2.    Construction. Sidewalks shall be of one-course construction.
3.    Sidewalk Base. Concrete may be placed directly on compact and well-
drained soil. Where soil is not well drained, a three-inch sub-base of compact,
clean, coarse gravel or sand shall be laid. The adequacy of the soil drainage
is to be determined by the City.
4.    Sidewalk Bed. The sidewalk bed shall be so graded that the constructed
sidewalk will be at established grade.
5.    Length, Width and Depth. Length, width and depth requirements are as
follows:
   A.   Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide and four inches
thick, and each section shall be no more than four feet in length.
   B.   Business district sidewalks shall extend from the property line to the
curb. Each section shall be four inches thick and no more than six feet in
length.
6.    Maintenance and Repairs. The following is permitted:
   A.   Grinding may be done to even-out heaved-up sidewalk panes if it results
in a compliant sidewalk.
   B.   Sidewalk patching may be done but only to fill cracks of one inch or
less. Patching or patching material cannot be used to level heaved-up sidewalks
or to replace missing pieces of sidewalk.
136.16 BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
Whenever any material of any kind is deposited on any street, avenue, highway,
passageway or alley when sidewalk improvements are being made or when any
sidewalk is in a dangerous condition, it shall be the duty of all persons
having an interest therein, either as the contractor or the owner, agent, or
lessee of the property in front of or along which such material may be
deposited, or such dangerous condition exists, to put in conspicuous places at
each end of such sidewalk and at each end of any pile of material deposited in
the street, a sufficient number of approved warning lights or flares, and to
keep them lighted during the entire night and to erect sufficient barricades
both at night and in the daytime to secure the same. The party or parties using
the street for any of the purposes specified in this chapter shall be liable
for all injuries or damage to persons or property arising from any wrongful act
or negligence of the party or parties, or their agents or employees or for any
misuse of the privileges conferred by this chapter or of any failure to comply
with provisions hereof.
136.17 FAILURE TO REPAIR OR BARRICADE.
It is the duty of the owner of the property abutting the sidewalk, or the
owner's contractor or agent, to notify the City immediately in the event of
failure or inability to make necessary sidewalk improvements or to install or
erect necessary barricades as required by this chapter.
136.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
No person shall knowingly or willfully drive any vehicle upon any portion of
any sidewalk or approach thereto while in the process of being improved or upon
any portion of any completed sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove or
destroy any part or all of any sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove,
destroy, mar, or deface any sidewalk at any time or destroy, mar, remove, or
deface any notice provided by this chapter.
136.19 SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS
1.   Permit
   A.    Required. It shall be unlawful for any person or firm or business to
place upon or over the public right-of-way or public sidewalk within the City
any object, excepting awnings, without first applying for and procuring a
permit from City staff. There shall be no fee for such permit.
   B.   Central Business District. All permits are subject to the approval of a
majority vote of the Council. Permits issued under this section shall be
limited to only the Central Business District as defined in Downtown Business
Revitalization Area identified in
Chapter 11.
2.    Insurance Required. Before any permit shall be issued, each applicant
must make application on a form provided by the City Manager and shall file
evidence of possession of liability insurance in the minimum amounts of
$100,000.00 for bodily injury, $200,000.00 aggregate and $100,000.00 property
damage indemnifying the City and any person injured or property damage
resulting from the object placed in the public right-of-way or public sidewalk.
Each applicant shall notify the City Manager of the cancellation of liability
insurance.
3.   
State Concurrence.  An applicant requesting a permit for the placing of an object
within right-of-way owned by the State must also obtain the concurrence of the
Iowa Department of Transportation.
4.    Exemption Under the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States. Newspaper vending machines and other objects protected by the right of
free speech shall be exempted from this chapter provided such obstructions be
located within 10 feet but not nearer than two feet from the nearest light or
utility pole of a recognized municipal street. Such exempted obstructions may
not be less than 30 inches nor more than 48 inches in height; nor less than 12
inches nor more than 30 inches in width or depth. Such exempted obstruction
shall be colored white, or any other color approved by application in writing
to the Council; and contain no advertising other than the name of the exempted
provider or providing organization.  Such obstruction, however, shall not
be chained, bolted, screwed, nailed, or in any other way attached to any
structure or substance on the public right-of-way or public sidewalk.
 Any subsequent modification of this exemption, which is more restrictive shall
not exclude existing exemptions.
5.   
Temporary Exemption.  Any person or organization owning or renting property
adjacent to the public right-of-way or public sidewalk may, upon notification
filed with the City Manager, be exempted from Section
136.19(1) for up to five days each calendar year, provided such notification
describes the placement and design of such obstruction and it is deemed neither
unsuitably sized nor unsuitably located by the City Manager. Such notification
shall be hand-delivered to the City Manager or their representative not
less than 72 hours prior to the placement of such obstruction.  The City
Manager, acting for reasons related to the safety
of the pedestrian, for concerns of visual or aesthetic purposes, or for concerns for the City liability
for injury to persons or property, shall notify the applicant within the 72-
hour period of a decision to deny exemption to such obstruction.
6.    Blanket Exemption.  Any person representing a recognized organization
promoting the betterment of the business climate or quality of life in
Maquoketa may apply for a blanket exemption for all members of such
organization. Such exemption shall be applied for pursuant to Section
136.19(1) and shall include the specific dates to which such exemption is
requested.  This application shall include an attached exhibit listing all organization members and
the addresses to which the exemption, if granted, shall apply.  The
obstructions on the public
sidewalk under the blanket exemption shall be permitted only during the normal hours of business
as designated by the Maquoketa Area Chamber of Commerce.
7.    Exemptions.  U.S. Postal Service.  The provisions of Section 136.19 shall
not apply to fixtures owned by the U.S. Postal Service.
136.20 AREA LIMITED.
Obstructions allowed by permit as authorized in Section
136.19 shall be limited to an area of the public sidewalk of no more than five
feet or no more than 33 percent of the full width of the public sidewalk
adjacent to the building, whichever is less.
136.21 FIRES OR FUEL ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to make a fire of any kind on any sidewalk or to
place or allow any fuel to remain upon any sidewalk.
136.22 DEFACING.
It is unlawful for a person to scatter or place any paste, paint, or writing on
any sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
136.23 DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to throw or deposit on any sidewalk any glass,
nails, glass bottle, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, offal,
or any other debris, or any substance likely to injure any person, animal, or
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
136.24 SIDEWALKS REQUIRED UPON NEW CONSTRUCTION.
The following requirements will apply to situations that involve the
construction of new main structures on lots:
1.    When Sidewalk Construction is Required. Whenever the owner of any
property within the City builds a new residential, commercial, or industrial
building or structure, said property owner shall construct new sidewalks on the
property if no sidewalks presently exist. Any sidewalks so constructed shall
connect to the adjoining, existing sidewalks and shall be built to
specifications adopted by the Council. If there are no adjoining sidewalks, the
new sidewalks shall be constructed from lot boundary to lot boundary in a
location to be directed by the City. Sidewalks must be completed within six
months after the structure is issued a certification of occupancy or the
structure is otherwise substantially complete and in use. An extension may be
granted by the City Manager who shall report the same to the Council. These
extensions may be granted for special circumstances (such as waiting for
appropriate weather to do final grading of property) for a period not to exceed
12 months. As a condition for being granted an extension, the property owner
shall be required to provide proof of intent to install the sidewalk.
2.    Projects Receiving Public Financing. The Council may require the
construction of sidewalks for any property within the City if the property
owner receives public financing (for example, but not limited to, economic
development projects) for the development of the subject property.
3.    Empty Lots in New Residential Subdivisions After Five Years. All lots,
including empty lots, in residential subdivisions are required to have
sidewalks installed by not later than five years after the date that the
Council approves the lots for sale to the public. This provision applies to all
residential subdivisions approved by the Council after August 1, 2013. However,
on a case-by-case basis, the Council may, by resolution, allow extensions.
4.    Failure to Construct. If a property owner fails to construct sidewalks as
required by this section, the City Manager shall serve notice by certified mail
on the property owner, as shown by the records of the County Auditor, requiring
the property owner to construct the required sidewalks. If the property owner
fails to do so within 30 days after the mailing of such notice, the City
Manager may cause the required action to be performed and assess the costs
against the property owner for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
If the amount assessed exceeds $100.00, the assessment may be paid in five
annual installments. A failure to construct sidewalks as required by this
section also constitutes a municipal infraction.
5.    Non-Applicable Structures. The requirements of this section do not apply
to the construction of building additions or accessory buildings.
6.    Exemptions. A property owner can apply for an exemption to the
requirements of this section by meeting at least one of the conditions set out
below. However, the City will be the sole arbiter of whether to grant the
exemption.
   A.   The proposed sidewalk is not within 500 feet of existing sidewalk on
either side of the public street that serves the subject property and
properties within this distance are not expected to have sidewalks within the
foreseeable future unless those properties have undeveloped lots that are part
of a subdivision accepted by the City after January 1, 1998.
   B.   The grade (or other such condition) of the subject property creates an
undue burden or unfeasibility for installing a sidewalk.
   C.   By passage of simple motion, the Council can approve exemptions on a
case-by-case basis.
7.    Existing Sidewalks to Nowhere. The property owner of a lot with a
sidewalk that might have qualified for an exemption under this section but
installed a sidewalk prior to the effective date of this chapter may apply for
the Council's approval, by simple motion, to waive the City's requirement to
remove snow from it provided that the property owner accepts the liability for
doing so.
136.25 SIDEWALK INSTALLATION AND RECONSTRUCTION.
As a part of its planning process for future street construction,
reconstruction, or surface overlay projects:
1.    New Sidewalks on At Least One Side of a Street. In cases of street
projects on streets where sidewalks do not exist, the Council will consider
incorporating the installation of sidewalks on at least one side of each
street.
2.    Existing Sidewalks. In cases of street projects where sidewalks currently
exist, the Council will consider incorporating the reconstruction or repair of
such sidewalks as part of each project.
136.26 PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS.
Persons who violate or who participate in a violation by commanding or
persuading another to violate the provision of this chapter shall be subject to
fines as set forth in
Chapter 3. An employer or an employer's agent who orders an employee to violate
this chapter or who knowingly permits an employer or person supervised to
violate this chapter shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter and subject
to the penalties set forth in
Chapter 3.
CHAPTER 137
VACATION AND DISPOSAL OF STREETS
 
137.01 Power to Vacate                137.04 Findings Required
137.02 Planning and Zoning Commission 137.05 Disposal of Vacated Streets or
                                      Alleys
137.03 Notice of Vacation Hearing     137.06 Disposal by Gift Limited
 
137.01 POWER TO VACATE.
When, in the judgment of the Council, it would be in the best interest of the
City to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds, the
Council may do so by ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2a])
137.02 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
Any proposal to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds
shall be referred by the Council to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its
study and recommendation prior to further consideration by the Council. The
Commission shall submit a written report including recommendations to the
Council within 30 days after the date the proposed vacation is referred to the
Commission.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
137.03 NOTICE OF VACATION HEARING.
The Council shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing of the time
at which the proposal to vacate shall be considered.
137.04 FINDINGS REQUIRED.
No street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds shall be vacated
unless the Council finds that:
1.    Public Use. The street, alley, portion thereof, or any public ground
proposed to be vacated is not needed for the use of the public, and therefore,
its maintenance at public expense is no longer justified.
2.    Abutting Property. The proposed vacation will not deny owners of property
abutting on the street or alley reasonable access to their property.
137.05 DISPOSAL OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS.
When in the judgment of the Council it would be in the best interest of the
City to dispose of a vacated street or alley, portion thereof or public ground,
the Council may do so in accordance with the provisions of Section 364.7, Code
of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7)
137.06 DISPOSAL BY GIFT LIMITED.
The City may not dispose of real property by gift except to a governmental body
for a public purpose or to a fair.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 174.15[2] and 364.7[3])
EDITOR'S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED         ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
1157          October 7, 2019
1158          October 7, 2019
1227          October 7, 2024
CHAPTER 138
STREET GRADES
 
138.01 Purpose and Definition 138.03 Record Maintained
138.02 Established Grades
 
138.01 PURPOSE AND DEFINITION.
This chapter is designed to meet the requirements of the Code of Iowa for the
establishment of street grades. As used herein, grade means the longitudinal
reference lines, as established by ordinance of the Council, which designate
the elevation at which a street or sidewalk is to be built.
138.02 ESTABLISHED GRADES.
The grades of all streets, alleys, and sidewalks, which have been heretofore
established by ordinance, are hereby confirmed, ratified, and established as
official grades.
138.03 RECORD MAINTAINED.
The Clerk shall maintain a record of all established grades and furnish
information concerning such grades upon request.
EDITOR'S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street and/or sidewalk grades and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
EDITOR'S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street and/or sidewalk grades and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
CHAPTER 139
NAMING OF STREETS
 
139.01 Naming New Streets      139.04 Official Street Name Map
139.02 Changing Name of Street 139.05 Revision of Street Name Map
139.03 Recording Street Names
 
139.01 NAMING NEW STREETS.
New streets shall be assigned names in accordance with the following:
1.    Extension of Existing Street. Streets added to the City that are natural
extensions of existing streets shall be assigned the name of the existing
street.
2.    Resolution. All street names, except streets named as a part of a
subdivision or platting procedure, shall be named by resolution.
3.    Planning and Zoning Commission. Proposed street names shall be referred
to the Planning and Zoning Commission for review and recommendation. The
Planning and Zoning Commission shall provide a copy of the recommendation to
the Council within 30 days.
4.    Prefixes for Cardinal Directions. Streets named after the effective date
shall continue to comply with the cardinal direction prefixes as set forth in
this chapter.
5.    Extension of Existing Street. Streets added to the City that are natural
extensions of existing streets shall be assigned the name of the existing
street.
139.02 CHANGING NAME OF STREET.
The Council may, by resolution, change the name of a street.
139.03 RECORDING STREET NAMES.
Following official action naming or changing the name of a street, the Clerk
shall file a copy thereof with the County Recorder, County Auditor and County
Assessor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.26)
139.04 OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP.
Streets within the City are named as shown on the Official Street Name Map,
which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
The Official Street Name Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor,
and bearing the seal of the City under the following words: This is to certify
that this is the Official Street Name Map referred to in Section
139.04 of the Code of Ordinances of Maquoketa, Iowa.
139.05 REVISION OF STREET NAME MAP.
If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in
street names, such changes shall be entered on the Official Street Name Map
promptly after the change has been approved by the Council with an entry on the
Official Street Name Map as follows: On (date), by official action of the City
Council, the following changes were made in the Official Street Name Map:
(brief description), which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by
the Clerk.
CHAPTER 140
CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES
 
140.01 Exercise of Police Power 140.04 Unlawful Use of Controlled Access
                                Facilities
140.02 Definition               140.05 Establishment
140.03 Right of Access Limited
 
140.01 EXERCISE OF POLICE POWER.
This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of the City under
Chapter 306A, Code of Iowa, for the preservation of the public peace, health,
and safety and for the promotion of the general welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.1)
140.02 DEFINITION.
The term controlled access facility means a highway or street especially
designed for through traffic, and over, from or to which owners or occupants of
abutting land or other persons have no right or easement or only a controlled
right or easement of access, light, air, or view by reason of the fact that
their property abuts upon such controlled access facility or for any other
reason.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.2)
140.03 RIGHT OF ACCESS LIMITED.
No person has any right of ingress or egress to or from abutting lands onto or
across any controlled access facility, except at such designated points at
which access is permitted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.4)
140.04 UNLAWFUL USE OF CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES.
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
1.    Drive a vehicle over, upon, or across any curb, central dividing section
or other separation or dividing line on such controlled access facilities.
2.    Make a left turn or a semi-circular or U-turn except through an opening
provided for that purpose in the dividing curb section, separation, or line.
3.    Drive any vehicle except in the proper lane provided for that purpose and
in the proper direction and to the right of the central dividing curb,
separation, or line.
4.    Drive any vehicle into the controlled access facility from a local
service road except through an opening provided for that purpose in the
dividing section or dividing line which separates such service road from the
controlled access facility property.
140.05 ESTABLISHMENT.
1.   There are hereby fixed and established controlled access facilities on the
Primary Road System extension improvements, Project No. F N 21 Primary Road No.
U.S. 61 within the City, described as follows:
   A.   Location.
      (1)   South Main Street (U.S. Highway 61) from South Summit Street to the
south corporation line (station 79x36.0 to station 105x84.9) regulating access
to and from abutting properties along the Highway all in accordance with the
plans for such improvement identified as Project No. F N 21 on file in the
office of the Clerk.
   B.   Ingress or Egress. No person shall have any right to ingress or egress
to, from, or across the controlled access facility except on such points as may
be permitted by the Iowa State Highway Commission and designated by the
provisions of this Code.
   C.   Points of Access. The points of access shall consist of access ways
from abutting property to the adjacent traffic lane or roadway and their
location shall be expressed in terms of stations, such representing a distance
of 100 feet measured along the centerline of the controlled access facility
from the points of reference stated in this chapter and identified as Project F
N 21. Points of access are hereby permitted as follows:
Address Station Side Width Description
Address               Station Side Width Description
Belle Reynolds        82x80   Lt.  20    Agricultural
Old R.R. ROW          85x96   Lt.  30    Commercial
Old R.R. ROW          86x05   Rt.  44    Commercial
902 South Main Street 87x06   Rt.  30    Commercial
902 South Main Street 88x03   Rt.  24    Commercial
Monroe Street         88x30   Rt.        City Street
Ranger Station        88x56   Rt.  38    Commercial
Monroe Street         88x75   Lt.        City Street
819 South Main Street 89x64   Rt.  87    Commercial
818 South Main Street 89x82   Lt.  12    Residential
816 South Main Street 90x73   Lt.  12    Residential
817 South Main Street 90x48   Rt.  12    Residential
814 South Main Street 91x16   Lt.  12    Residential
811 South Main Street 91x60   Rt.  12    Residential
810 South Main Street 92x11   Lt.  14    Residential
809 South Main Street 92x21   Rt.  13    Residential
805 South Main Street 92x82   Rt.  12    Residential
806 South Main Street 93x50   Lt.  10    Residential
802 South Main Street 93x88   Lt.  11    Residential
Jefferson Street      94x35   Rt.        City Street
719 South Main Street 96x43   Rt.  16    Residential
717 South Main Street 97x39   Rt.  16    Residential
Dairy From            98x26
Queen to              99x84   Rt.  Open  Commercial
708 South Main Street 99x23   Lt.  13    Residential
706 South Main Street 100x01  Lt.  11    Residential
703 South Main Street 99x84
Station to            100x86  Rt.  Open  Commercial
702 South Main Street 100x74  Lt.  16    Residential
619 South Main Street 100x86
To 102x00             Open               Commercial
620 South Main Street 101x86  Lt.  27    Commercial
Vet's Clinic          102x23  Rt.  21    Commercial
620 South Main Street 103x16  Lt.  15    Residential
613 South Main Street 103x22  Rt.  13    Residential
611 South Main Street 103x41  Rt.  15    Residential
610 South Main Street 103x51  Lt.  12    Residential
607 South Main Street 104x70  Rt.  20    Residential
Standard from         105x13  Rt.  Open  Commercial
Station to            105x86
 
2.    There are hereby fixed and established controlled access facilities on
the primary road system extension improvement, Project No. F-991 Primary Road
U.S. Highway 62 within the City, described as follows:
   A.   On U.S. Highway 62 from U.S. Highway 64 to Station 16x25.5.
   B.   On U.S. Highway 64 from Station 993x00 to Station 2x24.
   C.   Regulating access to and from (U.S. Highway 64 to Station 16x25.5)
abutting properties along the highway all in accordance with the plans for such
improvement identified as Project No. E-991 on file in the Office of the Clerk.
      (1)   Parking. It shall hereafter be illegal to park on U.S. Highway 62
from U.S. Highway 64 to Station 16x25.5 and on U.S. Highway 64 from Station
993x00 to Station 2x24.
      (2)   Speed Limits. The following speed limits are hereafter established:
         a.    Northbound of U.S. Highway 62 from U.S. Highway 64 to Station
16x25.5; 55 MPH.
         b.    Southbound on U.S. Highway 62 from Station 16x25.5 to U.S.
Highway 64; 45 MPH.
         c.    East or westbound on East Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) from
Station 993x00 to Station 2x24; 45 MPH.
   D.   Ingress or Egress. No person shall have any right to ingress or egress
to, from or across the controlled access facility except at such points as may
be permitted by the Iowa State Highway Commission and designated by the
provisions of this Code.
   E.   Points of Access. The points of access shall consist of access ways
from abutting property to the adjacent traffic lane or roadway and their
location shall be expressed in terms of stations, each representing a distance
of 100 feet measured along the centerline of the controlled access facility
from the points of reference stated in this chapter and identified as Project
No. F-991. Points of access are hereby permitted as follows:
 
Station Side Width Description
996x14  Lt.  35    Commercial - Fair Ground
11x52   Lt.  43    Commercial - Fair Ground
2x24    Rt.  31    Side Road
 
3.    There are hereby fixed and established controlled access facilities on
the primary road system extension improvements, Project No. FN-64-9, Primary
Road U.S. Highway 64 within the City described as follows:
   A.   Location.
      (1)   Beginning at Station 631+18 (end of tapers for U.S. Highway 61
intersection) thence easterly to Station 648+10 (Vermont Street).
   B.   Regulating access to and from abutting properties along said highway,
all in accordance with the plans for such improvement identified as Project No.
FN-64-9 on file in the Office of the Clerk.
   C.   Points of Access. The points of access shall consist of access ways
from abutting property to the adjacent traffic lane or roadway and their
location shall be expressed in terms of stations, each representing a distance
of 100 feet measured along the centerline of the controlled access facility
from the points of reference stated in Section 3 hereof.
Station Side Width Description
Station Side Width  Description
631+47  Rt.  24 ft. Residential
631+93  Lt.  95 ft. Commercial
633+55  Rt.  36 ft. Western Avenue
636+00  Lt.  24 ft. Residential
636+48  Lt.  35 ft. Commercial
637+33  Lt.  35 ft. Commercial
637+55  Lt.  35 ft. Commercial
637+88  Lt.  35 ft. Commercial
638+50  Lt.  35 ft. Commercial
639+41  Lt.  36 ft. Jones Avenue (North)
640+60  Lt.  35 ft. Commercial
635+68  Rt.  35 ft. Commercial
636+73  Rt.  30 ft. Residential
637+46  Rt.  35 ft. Commercial
639+41  Rt.  45 ft. Commercial
639+97  Rt.  45 ft. Commercial
640+45  Rt.  35 ft. Commercial
641+33  Rt.  35 ft. Commercial
641+76  Rt.  33 ft. Jones Avenue
642+10  Rt.  35 ft. Commercial
641+60  Lt.  24 ft. Residential
641+76  Lt.  24 ft. Residential
643+00  Rt.  45 ft. Commercial
643+15  Lt.  35 ft. Commercial
644+17  Lt.  32 ft. Arcade Street
644+30  Rt.  22 ft. Residential
644+52  Rt.  22 ft. Residential
645+29  Rt.  22 ft. Residential
645+66  Lt.  55 ft. Commercial
646+00  Rt.  22 ft. Residential
646+59  Rt.  22 ft. Residential
646+59  Lt.  22 ft. Residential
646+76  Lt.  22 ft. Residential
CHAPTER 145
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
 
145.01 Enforcement Officer            145.06 Conduct of Hearing
145.02 General Definition of Unsafe   145.07 Posting of Signs
145.03 Unsafe Building                145.08 Right to Demolish; Municipal
                                      Infraction
145.04 Property Maintenance Standards 145.09 Costs
145.05 Notice to Owner                145.10 Right of Entry
 
145.01 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
The City Manager or their designee is responsible for the enforcement of this
chapter.
145.02 GENERAL DEFINITION OF UNSAFE.
All buildings or structures that are structurally unsafe or not provided with
adequate egress, or that constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous
to human life, or that in relation to existing use constitute a hazard to
safety or health, or public welfare, by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, obsolescence, or abandonment, are, for the purpose of this
chapter, unsafe buildings. All such unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be
public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or
removal in accordance with the procedure specified in this chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657A.1 and 364.12[3a])
145.03 UNSAFE BUILDING.
Unsafe building means any structure or mobile home meeting any or all of the
following criteria:
1.    Various Inadequacies. Whenever the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, because of:
   A.   Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay;
   B.   Faulty construction;
   C.   The removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the ground
necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
   D.   The deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or
   E.   Any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse.
2.    Manifestly Unsafe. Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure,
or any portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is
being used.
3.    Inadequate Maintenance. Whenever a building or structure, used or
intended to be used for dwelling purposes, because of dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction, or otherwise, is determined to be unsanitary,
unfit for human habitation or in such condition that it is likely to cause
sickness or disease.
4.    Fire Hazard. Whenever any building or structure, because of dilapidated
condition, deterioration, damage, or other cause, is determined by the Fire
Marshal or Fire Chief to be a fire hazard.
5.    Abandoned. Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
145.04 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
1.   All structures, equipment and exterior property, whether occupied or
vacant, shall be maintained in good repair and in structurally sound and
sanitary condition as provided herein, so as not to cause or contribute to the
creation of a blighted area or adversely affect the public health or safety.
2.    All structures, equipment and exterior property shall be kept free from
rodent and vermin harborage and infestation. Where rodents and vermin are
found, they shall be promptly exterminated by approved processes that will not
be injurious to human health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be
taken to eliminate rodent and vermin harborage and prevent re-infestation.
3.    All accessory structures, including, but not limited to, detached
garages, fences, storage sheds, fences and walls shall be maintained in
structurally sound condition and in good repair.
4.    All exterior surfaces, including, but not limited to, doors, door and
window frames, cornices, porches and trim, shall be maintained in good
condition. Exterior wood surfaces, other than decay-resistant woods, shall be
protected from the elements and decay by painting or application of other
protective covering or treatment. Peeling, flaking and chipped paint shall be
eliminated and surfaces repainted. All siding and masonry joints, as well as
those between the building envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors, and
skylights, shall be maintained weather resistant and watertight.
5.    All foundation walls shall be maintained plumb and free from open cracks
and breaks, and shall be kept in such condition so as to prevent the entry of
rodents or vermin.
6.    All exterior walls shall be maintained plumb unless otherwise designed or
engineered; free from cracks, holes, breaks, and loose or rotting materials;
and maintained weatherproof and properly surface coated where required to
prevent deterioration.
7.    All roofs and flashing shall be sound, tight, and not have defects that
admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent dampness or
deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the structure. Roof drains,
gutters and down spouts shall be maintained in good repair, with proper
anchorage and free from obstructions.
8.    Every exterior stairway, deck, porch, or balcony, and all appurtenances
thereto, shall be maintained in structurally sound condition, in good repair,
and proper anchorage, and capable of supporting the imposed loads.
9.    All chimneys, cooling towers, smokestacks, and similar appurtenances
shall be maintained in structurally sound condition and in good repair. All
exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and
against decay or rust by periodic application of weather-coating materials,
such as paint or similar surface treatment.
10.    Every handrail and guardrail shall be firmly fastened and capable of
supporting normally imposed loads and shall be maintained in good condition.
11.    Basement entrances. Every basement hatchway or exterior basement
entrance shall be maintained to prevent entry of rodents or vermin and shall be
maintained so as not to allow rain or surface drainage water to enter.
12.    Broken doors or windows. Broken exterior doors and broken windows shall
be replaced or repaired.
145.05 NOTICE TO OWNER.
The enforcement officer shall examine or cause to be examined every building or
structure or portion thereof reported as dangerous or damaged and, if such is
found to be an unsafe building as defined in this chapter, the enforcement
officer shall give to the owner of such building or structure written notice
stating the defects thereof. This notice may require the owner or person in
charge of the building or premises, within 48 hours or such reasonable time as
the circumstances require, to commence either the required repairs or
improvements or demolition and removal of the building or structure or portions
thereof, and all such work shall be completed within 90 days from date of
notice, unless otherwise stipulated by the enforcement officer. If necessary,
such notice shall also require the building, structure, or portion thereof to
be vacated forthwith and not reoccupied until the required repairs and
improvements are completed, inspected, and approved by the enforcement officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
1.    Notice Served. Such notice shall be served by sending by certified mail
to the owner of record, according to Section 364.12[3h] of the Code of Iowa, if
the owner is found within the City limits. If the owner is not found within the
City limits, such service may be made upon the owner by registered mail or
certified mail. The designated period within which said owner or person in
charge is required to comply with the order of the enforcement officer shall
begin as of the date the owner receives such notice.
2.    Hearing. Such notice shall also advise the owner that he or she may
request a hearing before the Council on the notice by filing a written request
for hearing within the time provided in the notice.
145.06 CONDUCT OF HEARING.
If requested, the Council shall conduct a hearing in accordance with the
following:
1.    Notice. The owner shall be served with written notice specifying the
date, time and place of hearing.
2.    Owner's Rights. At the hearing, the owner may appear and show cause why
the alleged nuisance shall not be abated.
3.    Determination. The Council shall make and record findings of fact and may
issue such order as it deems appropriate.   11
 
Notes
      EDITOR S NOTE: Suggested forms of notice and of a resolution and order of
   the Council for the administration of this chapter are provided in the
11 APPENDIX to this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use of this
   procedure. We recommend you review the situation with your attorney before
   initiating procedures and follow his or her recommendation carefully.
145.07 POSTING OF SIGNS.
The enforcement officer shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such
building a notice to read:
DO NOT ENTER.
UNSAFE TO OCCUPY.
CITY OF MAQUOKETA, IOWA.
Such notice shall remain posted until the required demolition, removal or
repairs are completed. Such notice shall not be removed without written
permission of the enforcement officer and no person shall enter the building
except for the purpose of making the required repairs or of demolishing the
building.
145.08 RIGHT TO DEMOLISH: MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
In case the owner fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with the notice to
repair, rehabilitate, or to demolish and remove the building or structure or
portion thereof, the Council may order the owner of the building prosecuted as
a violator of the provisions of this chapter and may order the enforcement
officer to proceed with the work specified in such notice. A statement of the
cost of such work shall be transmitted to the Council. As an alternative to
this action, the City may utilize the municipal infraction process to abate the
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
145.09 COSTS.
Costs incurred under Section
145.08 shall be paid out of the City treasury. Such costs shall be charged to
the owner of the premises involved and levied as a special assessment against
the land on which the building or structure is located, and shall be certified
to the County Treasurer for collection in the manner provided for other taxes.
In addition, the City may take any other action deemed appropriate to recover
costs incurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
145.10 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any provisions of this
chapter, or whenever the City Manager or any authorized agent have reasonable
cause to believe that there exists conditions in any building or structure in
violation of this chapter, the City Manager and authorized agents may enter
such building or structures at all reasonable times to inspect the same or
perform any duty imposed by this chapter.
CHAPTER 146
MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES
 
146.01 Definitions                 146.03 Foundation Requirements
146.02 Conversion to Real Property
 
146.01 DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.1)
1.    Manufactured home means a factory-built structure built under the
authority of 42 U.S.C. Sec. 5403 which was constructed on or after June 15,
1976, and is required by federal law to display a seal from the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development.
2.    Manufactured home community means any site, lot, field, or tract of land
under common ownership upon which 10 or more occupied manufactured homes are
harbored, either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and includes any
building, structure, or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the
equipment of the manufactured home community.
3.    Mobile home means any vehicle without motive power used or so
manufactured or constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon
the public streets and highways and so designed, constructed, or reconstructed
as will permit the vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or
more persons; but also includes any such vehicle with motive power not
registered as a motor vehicle in Iowa. A mobile home means any such vehicle
built before June 15, 1976, which was not built to a mandatory building code
and which contains no State or federal seals.
4.    Mobile home park means any site, lot, field, or tract of land upon which
three or more mobile homes or manufactured homes, or a combination of any of
these homes, are placed on developed spaces and operated as a for-profit
enterprise with water, sewer or septic, and electrical services available.
The term manufactured home community or mobile home park is not to be construed
to include manufactured or mobile homes, buildings, tents, or other structures
temporarily maintained by any individual, educational institution, or company
on its own premises and used exclusively to house said entity's own labor or
students. The manufactured home community or mobile home park shall meet the
requirements of any zoning regulations that are in effect.
146.02 CONVERSION TO REAL PROPERTY.
A mobile home or manufactured home that is located outside a manufactured home
community or mobile home park shall be converted to real estate by being placed
on a permanent foundation and shall be assessed for real estate taxes except in
the following cases:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.26)
1.    Retailer's Stock. Mobile homes or manufactured homes on private property
as part of a retailer's or a manufacturer's stock not used as a place for human
habitation.
2.    Existing Homes. A taxable mobile home or manufactured home that is
located outside of a manufactured home community or mobile home park as of
January 1, 1995, shall be assessed and taxed as real estate, but is exempt from
the permanent foundation requirement of this chapter until the home is
relocated.
146.03 FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS.
A mobile home or manufactured home located outside of a manufactured home
community or mobile home park shall be placed on a permanent frost-free
foundation system that meets the support and anchorage requirements as
recommended by the manufacturer or required by the State Building Code. The
foundation system must be visually compatible with permanent foundation systems
of surrounding residential structures. Any such home shall be installed in
accordance with the requirements of the State Building Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.10 and 414.28)
CHAPTER 147
MOBILE HOME PARK
 
147.01 Purpose                           147.07 Inspection of Manufactured Home
                                         Parks
147.02 Permitted Uses                    147.08 Enforcement
147.03 Conditional Uses                  147.09 Variances
147.04 Standards and Criteria            147.10 Fees
147.05 Procedure for Review and Approval 147.11 Amendments
of a Mobile Home Park
147.06 Application to Enlarge Existing   147.12 Building Permit
Manufactured Home Parks
 
147.01 PURPOSE.
Standards and regulations governing mobile home parks are hereby established.
The purpose of this section is to establish standards for the development and
operation of residential mobile home parks. The standards are intended to
provide for diverse housing opportunities while promoting neighborhood
enhancement and minimizing conflicts with other zoning districts. A residential
mobile home park may provide sites (herein defined as manufactured lots)
available for lease or rent only.
147.02 PERMITTED USES.
In a mobile home park, no building, land, or premises shall be used, and no
building shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, located, relocated, or
altered except in conformance with an approved final development plan and
except for one or more of the following uses:
1.    All permitted uses in District R-1, except that not more than two
permanent dwelling units will be allowed in each mobile home park.
2.    Manufactured and mobile homes for single-family residential purposes
only.
3.    Recreational uses for exclusive use of the occupants of the mobile home
park.
4.    Accessory uses customarily incident to the above uses.
147.03 CONDITIONAL USES.
The following uses shall be permitted in District RMH only after the issuance
of a conditional use permit pursuant to the provisions contained herein:
1.    All uses listed as conditional uses in District R-1.
147.04 STANDARDS AND CRITERIA.
The following standards and criteria shall apply to all RMH developments:
1.    Height Regulations. Lot area, frontage, and yard requirements. Such
regulations as specified in
Chapter 165.
2.    Yards.
   A.   All manufactured home lots shall be set back at least 25 feet from all
perimeter property lines of the mobile home park. The setback is intended to be
a landscaped open area. Parking, streets, drives, accessory vehicles, and
accessory uses shall not be allowed within the 25 - foot setback area. A
permanent screen consisting of a masonry wall, wood fence, landscaping
material, or combination thereof, at least eight feet in height and, when a
fence is used, not to exceed 12 feet in height, shall be required around the
perimeter of the site, except where the site is adjacent to a public street
right-of-way. The required screening shall have an opacity of at least 80
percent year around and, if landscaping is used, the 80 percent opacity shall
be achieved within four full growing seasons. In the event a masonry wall or
wood fence is used, landscaping shall be placed between the wall or fence and
the property line to form an ornamental screen. The required screening shall be
maintained in good order and not allowed to exist in a state of disrepair or
death. If wood fencing is used, it shall be durable in nature or treated to
prevent rapid deterioration. Failure to maintain the required screening shall
be considered a violation of this chapter.
   B.   Each manufactured home shall be set back at least 20 feet from any
public street right-of-way or private drive within the mobile home park.
Parking may be allowed within the 20 - foot setback.
   C.   Each manufactured home shall be set back at least 18 to 20 feet from
all (manufactured home lot) lot lines which are not abutting a public street
right-of-way or private drive. This setback shall not apply to parking areas,
carports, and other accessory buildings which are located on lots which do not
border the perimeter of the mobile home park.
   D.   A private outdoor living area, such as a patio or deck, of at least 40
square feet shall be provided on each manufactured home lot adjoining the
manufactured home.
3.    Stormwater Management. A stormwater management system shall be designed
to minimize the possibility of soil erosion and flood damage on site and
downstream.
4.    Lot Area. Each manufactured home lot shall be at least 4,050 square feet.
5.    Lot Width. Each manufactured home lot shall be at least 45 feet in width.
6.    Streets and Drives. Interior access may be provided by public streets or
private drives. Public streets shall be built to City standards. When private
drives are used, the following criteria shall apply:
   A.   The private drives shall be constructed of Portland Cement Concrete or
asphaltic concrete and shall be designed with adequate strength to accommodate
design loadings and shall include curb and gutter.
   B.   When off-street guest parking is not provided, private drives shall be
at least 28 feet in width.
   C.   When off-street guest parking is provided below, private drives shall
be at least 24 feet in width.
   D.   Cul-de-sac private drives shall not exceed 750 feet in length and shall
be provided with an outside roadway diameter of not less than 76 feet.
   E.   Intersecting private drives shall have centerlines as nearly straight
as possible. Jogs with centerline effects of more than five feet shall not be
permitted.
   F.   Intersections of private drives at angles less than 60 degrees shall
not be permitted.
   G.   If an intersection occurs at an angle other than a right angle, it
shall be rounded with a curve at a radius acceptable to the City Engineer.
   H.   Grades:
      (1)   Maximum - 10 percent.
      (2)   Minimum - Five-tenths of a percent.
   I.   All private drives entering a public street must meet at a right angle
and be perpendicular to the public street for a minimum distance of 50 feet
without intersection of private drives. The intersecting private drive right-
of-way with the public street right-of-way shall be rounded with radii of not
less than 30 feet.
   J.   On the corner lot on which a front or side yard is required, no wall,
fence, sign, or other structure or no plant growth of a type which would
interfere with traffic visibility across the corner shall be permitted or
maintained higher than three feet above the curb level, within 15 feet of the
intersection of the edges of the private drives.
   K.   Street or drive connections to adjacent properties may be required when
deemed appropriate by the City Manager; however, under normal circumstances,
mobile home parks shall have their only access on perimeter streets.
7.    Access. At least one access point onto a public street shall be provided
for each 100 manufactured home lots.
8.    Parking. Paved parking shall be provided on each manufactured home lot at
a rate of two parking spaces per manufactured home. In addition, paved guest
parking lots shall be provided throughout the mobile home park containing
parking spaces at the rate of one parking space per manufactured home within
the mobile home park. The guest parking will not be required when public
streets or private drives serving the interior of the development are
constructed at least 28 feet in width. Parking shall not be allowed on private
drives less than 28 feet in width. Parking shall be allowed on one side only of
private drives which are at least 28 feet in width. Parking shall be allowed on
both sides of private drives which are at least 32 feet in width.
9.    Stands and Tie-Downs for Manufactured Homes.
   A.   A stand shall be provided for each manufactured home. Said stand shall
be placed on or in the ground in such manner as to provide support and leveling
for such manufactured home, and shall be designed in accordance with the
Building Code .
   B.   Anchorage and tie-down shall be provided on each manufactured home lot
to prevent overturning or uplift of the manufactured home. The anchorage and
tie-down shall be adequate to withstand wind forces and uplift as required in
the Building Code .
10.    Skirting. All manufactured homes shall be skirted. The skirting shall be
done so that it is compatible with the manufactured home unit's materials, and
it shall be of a finished nature. Composition building board and raw wood shall
not be used as skirting unless finished with a weatherproof and termite proof
material.
11.    Miscellaneous Standards for Mobile Home Parks.
   A.   A map of the layout of the mobile home park, of a scale not greater
than 1:50, showing the location of individual manufactured home spaces by
number, shall be displayed on the park office building, or on the
identification sign at the entrance to the manufactured home park.
   B.   Each space for a manufactured home shall be provided with a sewer
outlet not less than four inches in diameter, connected to the main sewer
system.
   C.   Lighting shall be provided for all private streets, walkways,
buildings, and other facilities subject to nighttime use in accordance with
City requirements for residential streets and walkways.
   D.   The mobile home park shall provide storage areas, in addition to
automobile parking requirements, for accessory vehicles such as trucks and
boats. The minimum area required for such storage shall be one parking space
for each 10 manufactured homes.
   E.   Storage facilities for tenants may be provided on the manufactured home
lot or in compounds placed near the manufactured home lots. Storage facilities
shall be constructed of suitable weather resistant materials.
   F.   All yards and other open spaces not otherwise paved or occupied by
structures shall be landscaped and maintained.
   G.   Any enclosed structure attached to a manufactured home shall be made
out of compatible or similar exterior materials and in conformance with City
Building Codes. No structure shall be constructed within 10 feet from the lot
line of any lot which borders the perimeter of the RMH District.
147.05 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF A MOBILE HOME PARK.
1.   The first step in the approval process is a concept review to discuss the
proposal. The concept review is an informal discussion and review between the
Zoning Officer and the developer to discuss land use and development concepts,
applicable regulations, and other concerns that may be raised.
2.    The applicant shall prepare and submit a preliminary mobile home park
plan to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its review. The Commission shall
then hold a public hearing.
3.    The preliminary development plan shall show the following:
   A.   The name of the mobile home park.
   B.   A north arrow, scale, and the size of the site to the nearest acre.
   C.   The name of the record owners of the land.
   D.   Existing zoning of the tract and the zoning of all adjacent property.
   E.   The existing topography of the site with contour intervals no greater
than five feet.
   F.   The approximate location and arrangement of proposed manufactured home
lots and other buildings on the site.
   G.   The total number of manufactured homes proposed and the density of
development.
   H.   The proposed location of parking areas, an estimated parking ratio, and
the general arrangement of spaces and drives on the site.
   I.   The approximate location of any existing or proposed right-of-way.
   J.   The approximate location of existing sanitary sewers and water mains
within or adjacent to the site.
   K.   Natural and modified drainage ways, proposed culverts, and detention
areas, if applicable, on the site.
   L.   Existing waterways or wooded areas, and the approximate location of the
one-hundred-year floodplain, if applicable.
   M.   A general description of proposed landscaped areas on the site.
   N.   The stages of development, if applicable.
   O.   Signatures blocks for Commission and Council approvals.
   P.   The following items shall be submitted along with the plan:
      (1)   A fee to cover advertising costs.
      (2)   A legal description of the property.
4.    The names and addresses of all property owners within 185 feet of the
property.
5.    After the public hearing, the Commission shall forward the preliminary
development plan to the Council with its recommendation.
6.    The Council, after a public hearing, may approve, approve conditionally,
or deny the preliminary development plan. Approval of the preliminary
development plan shall place RMH zoning on the site.
7.    After Council approval of the preliminary development plan, the applicant
shall submit a final RMH development plan for review and approval by the
Commission. After review, the Commission shall forward the final development
plan to the Council with its recommendation.
8.    The final development plan submittal shall include the following:
   A.   The name of the RMH development.
   B.   A north arrow, scale, small location map, and the size of the site to
the nearest one-tenth of an acre.
   C.   A survey of the land prepared under the supervision of a registered
land surveyor .
   D.   The name and address of the record owners of the land.
   E.   Name of adjacent property owners of unsubdivided land and the names of
the adjacent subdivisions.
   F.   The location of the boundary lines of the site in relation to any
section line or quarter section line and any corporate boundaries immediately
adjacent.
   G.   The existing topography of the site with contour intervals no greater
than five feet, and the specific location of the one-hundred-year floodplain,
if applicable.
   H.   The location of all manufactured home lots, manufactured homes, and
other proposed buildings on the site.
   I.   The location and number of parking spaces, drives, and the parking
ratio.
   J.   The location and width of existing street rights-of-way, alleys, roads,
railroad rights-of-way, and recorded easements; and the proposed location,
width, name, and grade of any new streets, private drives, and sidewalks.
   K.   The approximate location of proposed sanitary sewers, water mains, and
storm sewers.
   L.   Signature blocks for Commission and Council approvals on all exhibits
considered part of the final development plan.
   M.   A stormwater management plan.
   N.   A landscaping plan including design, location, size, and type of
materials.
9.    Approval of the final development plan shall be deemed as satisfying the
requirements of the subdivision regulations for a preliminary plat, provided
all those requirements have been met.
10.    No permits shall be issued until a final plat of the RMH site is
approved by the Council.
11.    From and after two years following the date of approval of a final RMH
development plan by the Council, the Council may, by a majority vote, withdraw
approval of such final development plan, provided development has not
commenced.
12.    Minor adjustments to an approved final RMH development plan may be
authorized by the Director of Planning and Development.
13.    Changes, other than those considered minor by the Director of Planning
and Development, shall be submitted to the Commission for its review. If the
change is considered to be in substantial compliance with the preliminary
development plan, the Commission may approve a revision to the final
development plan. If the change is a substantial deviation from the intent of
the approved preliminary development plan, a revised preliminary development
plan shall be required and shall be reviewed as a new proposal.
147.06 APPLICATION TO ENLARGE EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
Application to enlarge mobile home parks existing on the effective date of this
section shall be subject to all provisions of this section relating to
requirements for new parks. Such applications shall be accompanied by plans
(preliminary and then final) showing both the proposed enlargement and its
relationship to the existing RMH development. When a final development plan is
approved for an extension of a manufactured home park existing on the effective
date of this section, the screening requirements of Section
165.14 shall apply to the entire manufactured home park.
147.07 INSPECTION OF MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
The Zoning Officer of the City shall have the power to enter at reasonable
times upon any private or public property for the purpose of inspecting and
investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this chapter. It shall
be the duty of the mobile home park management to give the or Zoning Officer
free access to all lots for the purpose of inspection.
147.08 ENFORCEMENT.
The City Manager or their appointee shall have authority to enforce this
chapter.
1.    The owner of a mobile home park shall notify the City Manager prior to
the placement or replacement of any home in the park.
2.    A violation of this chapter shall be a municipal infraction and shall
subject the owner of the park and the owner of a home to the remedies set forth
in that
Chapter 3.
147.09 VARIANCES.
Large Scale Developments. The standards and requirements of these regulations
may be modified by the Council in case of a plan or program for a complete
community or neighborhood unit. Such modification shall not be made until after
written recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission, which
recommendation may be given when, in the judgment of the Planning and Zoning
Commission, the specific plan or program presented provides adequate public
space and improvements for the circulation, recreation, light, air, and service
needs of the tract when fully developed and populated, and which also provides
such covenants or other legal provisions as will assure conformity to and
achievement of the plan.
1.    Variances, General. The Council hereby reserves the authority to vary the
strict application of the provisions herein contained, but such variances shall
be exercised only upon written recommendation of the Planning and Zoning
Commission and only after a written findings of fact is made by the Planning
and Zoning Commission that:
   A.   The purpose of the variations are not based exclusively upon a desire
for financial gain; and
   B.   The conditions creating the need for a variance are unique and are not
applicable generally to other property and have not been created by any person
having an interest in the property; and
   C.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical
conditions of the specific property involved, a particular hardship to the
owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the strict
letter of the regulations were adhered to; and
   D.   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in
the area in which the property is located .
147.10 FEES.
An application for a variance to these subdivision regulations shall be
accompanied by a filing fee of $50.00. The fee shall be deposited in the
General Fund of the City. Denial of the requested change shall not cause the
fee to be refunded to the petitioner.
147.11 AMENDMENTS.
Additions or amendments to this chapter may be made by the Council upon
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission and when so adopted are
incorporated in this chapter by addenda.
147.12 BUILDING PERMIT.
No building permit shall be issued by any governing official for the planning
of any home or improvement to the land or any lot within a manufactured home
park as defined herein, until all requirements of this chapter have been fully
complied with.
CHAPTER 148
FIRE LIMITS
 
148.01 Fire Limits             148.05 Additions and Alterations
148.02 Permits and Inspections 148.06 Moving Buildings
148.03 General                 148.07 Building Partly Within Fire Limits
148.04 New Buildings           148.08 Exceptions to Restrictions Within Fire
                               Limits
 
148.01 FIRE LIMITS.
The fire limits are established to include all territory within the following
described limits:
The west one-half (W ) of block 10; blocks eighteen (18), nineteen (19), twenty
(20), twenty-five (25), and twenty-six (26), all in the original plat of the
City and blocks three (3), four (4), and eleven (11), Shaw's Addition to the
City. (C.179; 8-30-54)
148.02 PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
It shall be unlawful to construct, add to, alter, remove, or demolish, or to
commence the construction, addition, alteration, removal, or demolition of a
building or structure or install equipment for the operation of a building or
structure without first filing with the City Manager an application in writing
and obtaining a formal permit. The City Manager may require a plan of the
proposed work together with a statement of materials to be used and any
necessary computations. The City Manager shall inspect all buildings or
structures during construction to see that the provisions of the law are
complied with and that construction is prosecuted safely. Whenever in their
opinion, by reason of defective or illegal work in violation of a provision of
this Code, the continuance of a building operation is contrary to public
welfare, they may order all further work to be stopped and may require
suspension of work until the condition in violation has been remedied.
148.03 GENERAL.
The restrictions on construction in this section cover buildings and structures
located or to be located within the district established by laws as the fire
limits.
148.04 NEW BUILDINGS.
Except as otherwise provided under section titled Exceptions to Restrictions,
no new buildings or structures shall be erected within the fire limits when
such building or structure is of:
1.    Wood frame construction.
2.    Unprotected noncombustible construction with walls not meeting the
bearing wall requirements for this type of construction.
3.    Heavy timber construction with walls not meeting the bearing wall
requirements of this type of construction.
4.    Ordinary construction with walls not meeting the bearing wall
requirements for this type of construction.
Wood or other combustible veneers or exterior walls of any type of construction
shall not be permitted within the fire limits.
148.05 ADDITIONS AND ALTERATIONS.
No addition shall be made to any building or structure within the fire limits
when such building or structure is of:
1.    Wood frame construction.
2.    Unprotected noncombustible construction having walls not meeting the
bearing wall requirements of ordinary construction except as permitted under
section titled Exceptions to Restrictions.
3.    Ordinary or heavy timber construction with walls not having the bearing
wall requirements of these types of construction.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit alterations within the
fire limits provided there is no change of occupancy to a class of occupancy
otherwise prohibited.
148.06 MOVING BUILDINGS.
No building or structure prohibited by section titled New Buildings shall be
moved from without to within the fire limits or from one lot to another within
the fire limits.
148.07 BUILDING PARTLY WITHIN FIRE LIMITS.
A building or structure shall be deemed to be within the fire limits if one-
third or more of the area of such building or structure is located therein.
148.08 EXCEPTIONS TO RESTRICTIONS WITHIN FIRE LIMITS.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit, within the fire limits and subject to
the specified limitations, the erection of new buildings or structures,
additions to buildings or structures of wood frame construction or unprotected
noncombustible construction, and the use of wood or other combustible veneers
as follows:
1.    Frame, wood frame, dwellings not exceeding two stories, 20-foot walls
(not including gables) in height and separated by at least 5 feet from lot line
of adjoining property. No set back is required if both of the following
conditions are met:
   A.   A non-flammable foundation extends 12 or more inches above the finished
floor and the joint between the wall and this foundation is sealed with
petroleum resistant sealant to prevent intrusion of fluids.
   B.   Two layers of 5/8 inch fire retardant sheet rock are used everywhere a
20-foot setback or more from a property line is not maintained. This setback
requirement does not apply to wall(s) facing street.
2.    Wood or other combustible veneers on noncombustible backing for show
windows that do not extend above the first full story above grade.
3.    A building occupied as a parking garage or carport, not more than one
story in height nor more than 750 square feet in area, located on the same lot
with a dwelling; provided that such building shall be placed at least three
feet from lot lines of adjoining property.
4.    Buildings of unprotected noncombustible construction, except when used
for high hazard occupancy, not exceeding 12,500 square feet in area when used
for an automobile service garage, car wash or business occupancy or 10,000
square feet in area when used for other occupancies, nor more than one story in
height, and having a horizontal separation of not less than 10 feet on all
sides. Walls having a horizontal separation of less than 10 feet shall have a
fire resistance rating of not less than one hour.
5.    Greenhouses not more than 15 feet in height erected on the same lot with
and accessory to a dwelling or a store.
6.    Sheds open on the long side, not more than 15 feet in height nor more
than 500 square feet in area, located at least five feet from buildings and
adjoining lot lines.
7.    Builders shanties for use only in connection with a duly authorized
building operation and located on the same lot with such building operation, on
a lot immediately adjoining, on an upper floor of the building under
construction, or on a sidewalk shed.
8.    Plazas or balconies on dwellings, not exceeding 10 feet in width nor
extending more than three feet above the second floor beams, provided that no
such structure shall be located nearer than three feet to an adjoining lot line
or be joined to a similar structure of another building.
9.    Fences not extending 10 feet in height.
10.    Display signs following NFPA guidelines.
11.    Cooling towers following NFPA guidelines.
12.    Roofs over parking lots and bus stations, of unprotected non-combustible
construction, where the roof is at least 10 feet above the floor, and at least
every 40 feet there is an open roof ventilation area six feet wide extending
either the full length of the roof or the full width of the roof.
CHAPTER 150
BUILDING NUMBERING
 
150.01 Definitions        150.03 Building Numbering Plan
150.02 Owner Requirements
 
150.01 DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.    Owner means the owner of the principal building.
2.    Principal building means the main building on any lot or subdivision
thereof.
150.02 OWNER REQUIREMENTS.
Every owner shall comply with the following numbering requirements:
1.    Obtain Building Number. The owner shall obtain the assigned number to the
principal building from the City Hall.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
2.    Display Building Number. The owner shall place or cause to be installed
and maintained on the principal building the assigned number in a conspicuous
place to the street in figures not less than two and one half inches in height
and of a contrasting color with their background.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
3.    Failure to Comply. If an owner refuses to number a building as herein
provided, or fails to do so for a period of 10 days after being notified in
writing by the City to do so, the City may proceed to place the assigned number
on the principal building and assess the costs against the property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
150.03 BUILDING NUMBERING PLAN.
Building numbers shall be assigned in accordance with the building numbering
plan on file in the office of the Clerk.
1.    The odd numbers shall be on the south side of all streets running east
and west, and on the east side of all streets running north and south. The even
numbers shall be on the north side of all streets running east and west and on
the west side of all streets running north and south. The numbers of buildings
shall alternate from side to side.
2.    Commencing at the base line, all numbers south of Platt Street (U.S.
Highway 64) shall be known and designated by the prefix south, and all numbers
north of Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) shall be known and designated by the
prefix north. All numbers east of Main Street shall be known and designated by
the prefix east and all numbers west of Main Street shall be known and
designated by the prefix west.
CHAPTER 151
TREES
151.01 Definitions                      151.09 Pruning, Corner Clearance
151.02 Street Tree Species              151.10 Dead or Diseased Tree Removal on
                                        Private Property
151.03 Spacing
151.04 Distance from Curb and Sidewalk  151.11 Removal of Stumps
151.05 Distance from Street Corners and 151.12 Interference with Tree Board
Fireplugs
151.06 Utilities                        151.13 License Fee and Insurance
                                        Requirements
151.07 Public Tree Care                 151.14 Review by Council
151.08 Tree Topping                     151.15 Penalty
 
151.01 DEFINITIONS.
The following words and phrases whenever used in the ordinances of the City,
shall be construed as defined in this section unless, from the context, a
different meaning is intended or unless different meaning is specifically
defined and more particularly directed to the use of such words or phrases:
1.    Park trees means trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in
public parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the City or to
which the public has free access as a park.
2.    Street trees means trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation
on land lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or
ways within the City.
151.02 STREET TREE SPECIES.
The following list constitutes the official street tree species for the City.
No species other than those recommended by Trees Forever.
 
Small Trees     Medium Trees            Large Trees
Crabapple       Ash                     Maple
Flowering Pear  Hackberry               Sugar Oak
Bradford Redbud Honeylocust (thornless) Burr
                Linden
                Oak
                Maple
 
151.03 SPACING.
The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the tree species size
classes listed in Section
151.02, and no trees may be planted closer together than the following: small
trees, 30 feet; medium trees, 40 feet; large trees, 60 feet; except in special
plantings designed or approved by a landscape architect.
151.04 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
1.   No trees may be planted closer to any curb than 10 feet without the
approval of the Tree Board and completion of application being filled out by
property owner and Iowa One Call finished. This section shall not apply to the
Central Business District as defined in
Chapter 148 of this Code.
2.    No tree shall be planted within the City's right-of-way, unless such tree
is planted to replace a tree that has been removed within the last two years
and unless advance approval is given by the Tree Board. The Tree Board shall
meet during the months of March and August of each year or as necessary and
shall review applications to plant such trees in the City right-of-way.
151.05 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS.
1.   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet of any street corner,
measured from the point of nearest intersection curbs or curb lines.
2.    No street tree shall be planted closer than 10 feet of any fireplug.
151.06 UTILITIES.
No street trees other than those species listed as Small Trees in Section
151.02 may be planted under or within 10 lateral feet of any overhead utility
wire, or over, or within five lateral feet of any underground water line,
sewer, transmission line, or other utility.
151.07 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
1.   The City and the Municipal Electric Utility shall have the right to plant,
prune, maintain, and remove trees, plants, and shrubs within the lines of all
streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares, and public grounds, as may be
necessary to ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and
beauty of such public grounds.
2.    The Tree Board may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or
part thereof, which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature
is injurious to sewers, gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements,
or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect, or other pest. This section
does not prohibit the planting of street trees by adjacent property owners
providing that the selection and location of said trees is in accordance with
Sections
151.02 through
151.06.
151.08 TREE TOPPING.
It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or City
department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property.
Topping is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from
this chapter at the determination of the Tree Board. The tree trimming and tree
topping conducted by the employees of the Municipal Electric Utility shall be
exempt from this section.
151.09 PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE.
1.   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
City shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any streetlamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the
street or sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased, or dangerous
trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of
the public.
2.    The City shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street
from a streetlight or interferes with visibility of any traffic control device
or sign.
151.10 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
The City shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the City, when such trees constitute a hazard
to life and property, or harbor insects of disease which constitute a potential
threat to other trees within the City. The Tree Board will notify in writing
the owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at their own
expense within 60 days after the date of service of notice. In the event of
failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the City shall have the
authority to remove such trees and charge the cost of removal on the owner's
property tax notice.
151.11 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of the
ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of the
ground.
151.12 INTERFERENCE WITH TREE BOARD.
It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, deny or interfere with the Tree
Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the planting,
cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any street trees, park
trees, or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this chapter.
151.13 LICENSE FEE AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of pruning, treating, or removing trees within the City without
first applying for and procuring a license.
1.   License Fee and Insurance Requirements. The license fee shall be paid
annually in advance. This fee is subject to the City’s Fees & Fines Resolution.
(Subsection 1 – Ord. 1251 – Jun. 25 Supp.)
2.    No license shall be required of:
   A.   Any public service company, or City employee, doing such work in the
pursuit of their public service endeavors.
   B.   Any person with reference to tree or trees on their own premises.
   C.   Any individual performing labor or services on or in connection with
trees at the direction and under the personal supervision of a licensed tree
trimmer while in the performance of such function.
   D.   Any public utility, including its authorized employees and agents, when
engaged in the tree trimming or tree removal for the purpose of line clearance,
and in order to ensure the continuity of utility service to the public.
3.    Before any license shall be issued, each application shall first file
evidence of possession of liability insurance with an insurance company of good
standing and authorized to do business in the State, in the minimum amounts as
follows:
   A.   General Aggregate   $1,000,000
   B.   Products and Completed Operations Aggregate   $1,000,000
   C.   Personal and Advertising Injury   $500,000
   D.   Each Occurrence   $500,000
   E.   Fire Damage (any one fire)   $50,000
   F.   Medical Expense (any one person)   $5,000
151.14 REVIEW BY COUNCIL.
The Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts, and decisions of
the Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling, or order of the Tree
Board to the Council who may hear the matter and make final decision.
151.15 PENALTY.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be, upon conviction or
a plea of guilty, subject to penalties established in
Chapter 3.
CHAPTER 152
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
 
152.01 Purpose                        152.07 Application Review for All
                                      Applications
                                      152.08 Application Review for
152.02 Definitions                    Applications Identified As Eligible
                                      Facilities Requests
152.03 Zoning and Land Use            152.09 Applications Identified for New
                                      Tower Construction
                                      152.10 Application Review for Facilities
152.04 Special Use Permit Required    That Do Not Constitute Eligible
                                      Facilities Requests
152.05 Special Use Permit Application 152.11 Proprietary Leasing of City Owned
Process                               Controlled Property
152.06 Exceptions                     152.12 Removal of Abandoned Wireless
                                      Communication Facilities
 
152.01 PURPOSE.
This chapter implements Section 6409(a) of the Middle-Class Tax Relief and Job
Creation Act of 2012 ( Spectrum Act ), as interpreted by the Federal
Communications Commission's ( FCC or Commission ) Acceleration of Broadband
Deployment Report and Order and Chapter 8C of the Code of Iowa. This chapter
does not apply to Micro or Small Wireless Facilities as defined pursuant to the
provisions of Chapter 8C of the Code of Iowa; FCC licensed amateur (ham) radio
facilities; satellite dishes or antennas used for private television reception
not exceeding one meter in diameter; or towers or transmission equipment
erected by the City, County, or State for public safety or other public
purposes.
152.02 DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.    Applicant means any person engaged in the business of providing wireless
telecommunications services or the wireless telecommunications infrastructure
required for wireless telecommunications services and who submits an
application.
2.    Application means a request submitted by an applicant to the City for the
following:
   A.   An eligible facilities request,
   B.   To construct a new tower,
   C.   For the initial placement of transmission equipment on a wireless
support structure,
   D.   For the modification of an existing tower or existing base station that
constitutes a substantial change to an existing tower or existing base station,
or
   E.   Any other request to construct or place transmission equipment that
does not meet the definition of an eligible facilities request.
3.    Base station means a structure or equipment at a fixed location that
enables FCC licensed or authorized wireless communications between user
equipment and a communications network. The term does not encompass a tower as
defined herein or any equipment associated with a tower. Base station includes,
without limitation:
   A.   Equipment associated with wireless communications services, such as
private, broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless
services and fixed wireless services, such as microwave backhaul.
   B.   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and
backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological
configuration.
   C.   Any structure other than a tower that, at the time the relevant
application is filed with the City under this section, supports or houses
equipment described in Paragraph A and B that has been reviewed and approved
under the applicable zoning or siting process, or under another State or local
regulatory review process, even if the structure was not built for the sole or
primary purpose of providing that support.
The term does not include any structure that, at the time the relevant
application is filed with the City under this section, does not support or
house equipment described in Paragraph A and B.
4.    Collocation means the mounting or installation of transmission equipment
on an eligible support structure for the purpose of transmitting or receiving
radio frequency signals for communications purposes.
5.    Electric utility means any owner or operator of electric transmission or
distribution facilities subject to the regulation and enforcement activities of
the Iowa Utilities Board relating to safety standards.
6.    Eligible facilities request means any request for modification of an
existing tower or base station that does not substantially change the physical
dimensions of such tower or base station, involving:
   A.   Collocation of new transmission equipment;
   B.   Removal of transmission equipment; or
   C.   Replacement of transmission equipment.
7.    Eligible support structure means any tower or base station as defined in
this section, provided it is existing at the time the relevant application is
filed with the City under this section.
8.    Existing means a constructed tower or base station is existing for
purposes of this section if it has been reviewed and approved under the
applicable zoning or siting process, or under another State or local regulatory
review process, provided that a tower that has not been reviewed and approved
because it was not in a zoned area when it was built, but was lawfully
constructed, is existing for purposes of this section.
9.    FAA means the Federal Aviation Administration of the United States
10.    FCC means the Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
11.    Initial placement or installation means the first-time transmission
equipment is placed or installed on a wireless support structure.
12.    Monopole construction means a tower consisting of a single vertical
structure not supported by radiating guy wires or supporting structure, and
distinguishable from a lattice or truss tower.
13.    Site means towers not in the public right-of-way, the current boundaries
of the leased or owned property surrounding the tower and any access or utility
easements currently related to the site, and, for other eligible support
structures other than towers, that are in proximity to the structure and to
other transmission equipment already deployed on the ground.
14.    Substantial change means a modification substantially changes the
physical dimensions of an eligible support structure if it meets any of the
following criteria:
   A.   For towers other than towers in the public rights-of-way, it increases
the height of the tower by more than 10 percent or by the height of one
additional antenna array with separation from the nearest existing antenna not
to exceed 20 feet, whichever is greater; for other eligible support structures,
it increases the height of the structure by more than 10 percent or more than
10 feet, whichever is greater;
   B.   For towers other than towers in the public rights-of-way, it involves
adding an appurtenance to the body of the tower that would protrude from the
edge of the tower more than 20 feet, or more than the width of the tower
structure at the level of the appurtenance, whichever is greater; for other
eligible support structures, it involves adding an appurtenance to the body of
the structure that would protrude from the edge of the structure by more than
six feet;
   C.   For any eligible support structure, it involves installation of more
than the standard number of new equipment cabinets for the technology involved,
but not to exceed four cabinets; or, for towers in the public rights-of-way and
base stations, it involves installation of any new equipment cabinets on the
ground if there are no pre-existing ground cabinets associated with the
structure, or else involves installation of ground cabinets that are more than
10 percent larger in height or overall volume than any other ground cabinets
associated with the structure;
   D.   It entails any excavation or deployment outside the current site;
   E.   It would defeat the concealment elements of the eligible support
structure; or
   F.   It does not comply with conditions associated with the siting approval
of the construction or modification of the eligible support structure or base
station equipment, provided, however, that this limitation does not apply to
any modification that is non-compliant only in a manner that would not exceed
the thresholds identified in Paragraphs A and B of this section.
   G.   Height shall be measured from the original support structure in cases
where deployments are or will be separated horizontally, such as on buildings'
rooftops. Otherwise, height shall be measured from the dimensions of the tower
or base station, inclusive of originally approved appurtenances and any
modifications that were approved prior to the passage of the Spectrum Act, Pub.
L. No. 112-96, Tit. VI.
15.    Tower means any structure built for the sole or primary purpose of
supporting any FCC-licensed or authorized antennas and their associated
facilities, including structures that are constructed for wireless
communications services, including, but not limited to, private, broadcast, and
public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services and fixed
wireless services, such as microwave backhaul, and the associated site.
16.    Transmission equipment means equipment that facilitates transmission for
any FCC-licensed or authorized wireless communication service, including, but
not limited to, radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, and
regular and backup power supply. The term includes equipment associated with
wireless communications services, including, but not limited to, private,
broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services
and fixed wireless services, such as microwave backhaul.
17.    Wireless facility means equipment at a fixed location that enables the
transmission of wireless communications or information of any kind between user
equipment and a communications network, except that wireless facility does not
include coaxial or fiberoptic cable that is not immediately adjacent to, or
directly associated with, a particular antenna.
18.    Wireless support structure means a structure that exists at the time an
application is submitted and is capable of supporting the attachment or
installation of transmission equipment in compliance with applicable codes,
including, but not limited to, water towers, buildings, and other structures,
whether within or outside the public right-of-way. Wireless support structure
does not include a tower or existing base station.
152.03 ZONING AND LAND USE.
The City exercises zoning, land use, planning, and permitting authority
regarding the siting of transmission equipment within the City's territorial
boundaries and within the two-mile limit of the City's territorial boundaries,
subject to the provisions of Chapter 8C of the Code of Iowa and federal law.
152.04 SPECIAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
All applications, except for applications for eligible facilities requests,
shall require a Special Use Permit. Applications for the construction of new
towers shall be limited to the City's A-1, B-1, I-1, I-2, or I-3 Zoning
Districts. All other applications shall be limited to the City's A-1, B-1, I-1,
I-2, I-3, or B-2 Zoning Districts. The Board of Adjustment may, following a
public hearing, and subject to applicable State or federal requirements,
approve, approve with conditions, or deny requests for Special Use Permits
relative to an application.
152.05 SPECIAL USE PERMIT APPLICATION PROCESS.
1.   A Special Use Permit shall not be considered by the Board of Adjustment
unless and until the following requirements are met:
   A.   An application for Special Use Permit and all information set out in
Section
152.07(6) are submitted for review, which the Board of Adjustment will consider
in approving, approving with conditions, or denying a Special Use Permit . In
the event of a conflict between provisions of this chapter and provisions
generally applicable to a Special Use Permit, the provisions of this chapter
shall control. Further, the written protest provisions set forth in Section 152
.0 3 shall not apply to Special Use Permits considered under this chapter.
2.    Notice of a public hearing on an application for Special Use Permit shall
be published in accordance with the provisions of Section 362.3 of the Code of
Iowa not less than four and not more than 20 days in advance of such hearing.
Additionally, the City shall send public hearing notices by regular mail to
owners of property located within 200 feet of the exterior boundaries of the
site.
152.06 EXCEPTIONS.
The Board of Adjustment may, in approving a Special Use Permit, grant
exceptions from the criteria set forth in Section
152.07(6) if applicant submits a technical study acceptable to the Board of
Adjustment which confirms the exception is essential to the provision of
service and no alternative is available that conforms to the criteria in
question.
152.07 APPLICATION REVIEW FOR ALL APPLICATIONS.
1.   Application. Applicant shall complete an application form and indicate
whether its application and intended use is for:
   A.   An eligible facilities request;
   B.   Construction of a new tower;
   C.   Initial placement of transmission equipment on a wireless support
structure;
   D.   Modification of an existing tower or existing base station that
constitutes a substantial change to an existing tower or existing base station;
or
   E.   Any other request to construct or place transmission equipment that
does not meet the definition of an eligible facilities request.
2.    Application Fee. The application fee, including all City and third-party
fees for review or technical consultation, shall be reasonably related to
actual and direct administrative costs according to State law and are as
follows:
   A.   Up to $500 .00 for eligible facilities request;
   B.   Up to $3,000 .00 for new tower;
   C.   Up to $3,000 .00 for initial placement or installation of transmission
on a wireless support structure;
   D.   Up to $3,000 .00 for modification of an existing tower that constitutes
a substantial modification;
   E.   Up to $3,000 .00 for any other application to construct or place
transmission equipment.
3.    Third-Party Review or Technical Consultation. The City may retain the
services of third-party entities of its choosing to provide review or technical
consultation of applications, including, but not limited to, attorneys,
surveyors, and engineers. Such third-patty review may include without
limitation:
   A.   The accuracy and completeness of applications, including items
submitted therewith;
   B.   The validity of analysis, techniques, and methodologies proposed by
applicant;
   C.   The validity of conclusion reached by applicant; and
   D.   Whether the application satisfies applicable approval criteria set
forth in this chapter.
4.    Review Process. The Board of Adjustment shall apply the following
criteria, as applicable, in approving, approving with conditions, or denying a
Special Use Permit relative to an application:
   A.   Height, Setback, Fall Zone, and Lot Area Requirements.
      (1)   No tower shall exceed a height of 150 feet above grade, unless
otherwise approved by the Board of Adjustment. A lightning rod, not to exceed
10 feet in height, shall be not be included within the height limitation.
      (2)   No transmission equipment, wireless facilities, or base stations
installed upon or affixed to a wireless support structure shall exceed the
height of the wireless support structure, at its highest point, by more than 25
feet, unless otherwise approved by the Board of Adjustment.
      (3)   Towers and base stations shall be located so the distance from the
base of the tower (or distance from guy wires if used in conjunction with a
tower) and to any adjoining property satisfies the minimum building setback
requirement for the zoning district in which the tower is located. Base
stations shall similarly comply with such minimum building setbacks.
      (4)   Notwithstanding compliance with minimum building setback
requirements for the zoning district in which a tower is located, all towers
shall be situated to provide a sufficient fall zone such that the distance from
the base of the tower to the nearest occupied structure, public right-of-way,
residential zoning district, and/or property designated for residential use by
the City's Comprehensive Plan, exceeds the height of the tower. Provided, if
the tower is constructed utilizing breakpoint design technology, the minimum
distance for purposes of this subparagraph shall be equal to 110 percent the
distance from the top of the tower to the designed breakpoint. For example, on
a 100-foot monopole tower with a breakpoint at 80 feet, the minimum distance
would be 22 feet (100 percent of 20 feet, the distance from the top of the
tower to the breakpoint).
      (5)   For the purposes of determining compliance with setbacks, lot
coverage, and other such requirements for the zoning district in which a tower
and base station are located, the dimensions of the entire lot or parcel shall
control, even if located on a leased area situated within such lot or parcel.
   B.   Compliance with State and Federal Requirements. Towers, transmission
equipment, and base stations must meet or exceed current standards and
regulations of the FCC, FAA, and any other State or federal agency with the
authority to regulate towers.
   C.   Compliance with Applicable Building Codes and Safety Standards. Towers,
transmission equipment, and base stations shall be constructed, installed, and
maintained in compliance with standards set forth in applicable State or local
building codes and industry safety standards and subject to all applicable
permitting and approvals.
   D.   Collocation. In furtherance of the City's objective of encouraging
collocation, towers exceeding 80 feet in height must be designed and
constructed to accommodate additional communication antennas when technically
feasible.
   E.   Design and Construction. All towers shall be of monopole construction
and equipped with anti-climbing devices, unless otherwise approved by the Board
of Adjustment.
   F.   Fencing. Towers (and guy wires if used in conjunction with a tower)
shall be enclosed by a security fence not less than six feet in height,
provided this requirement shall not prevent fencing required to satisfy State
or federal requirements.
   G.   Lighting. Towers and transmission equipment shall not be illuminated
unless required to conform to FCC, FAA, or other State or federal requirements.
If lighting is required, the lighting alternative or design chosen must cause
the least disturbance to surrounding views and/or surrounding properties.
Security lighting may be provided around the base of a tower if zero cut-off
luminaries with a maximum mounting height of 12 feet are used to limit lighting
to the tower site.
   H.   Finishing. Towers shall be painted or coated silver or have a
galvanized finish, or be painted a neutral color to reduce visual obtrusiveness
to the maximum extent possible, unless otherwise required by State or federal
requirements. Towers and transmission equipment shall not be painted in such a
manner as to convey a company identity, and all transmission equipment shall be
of a color that matches the tower, unless otherwise required by State or
federal requirements.
   I.   Signage. No signage, logos, decals, symbols, or messages of a
commercial nature may be displayed upon a tower, base station, wireless support
structure, or required fencing, except for warning and identification signs and
notifications, and such other signs as may be required by local, State, or
federal requirements.
   J.   Landscaping and Buffering.
      (1)   Towers and associated base stations shall be landscaped with a
buffer of plant material that effectively screens from view the base of the
tower and base station from adjacent properties or streets. The plantings
installed shall be of a size and species that can achieve a height of six feet
and 75 percent opacity during at least three seasons.
      (2)   In locations where the visual impact of the tower and base station
would be minimal, as determined by the Board of Adjustment, the landscaping
requirement may be reduced or waived. Existing mature tree growth and natural
landforms on the site shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible.
Natural growth around the perimeter of the site may be considered a sufficient
buffer for a tower and base station, as determined by the Board of Adjustment.
   K.   Concealment.
      (1)   Transmission equipment or base stations installed upon or affixed
to a wireless support structure shall be installed so as to camouflage,
disguise, or conceal them to make them closely compatible with and blend into
the setting or wireless support structure.
      (2)   Transmission equipment or base stations installed upon or affixed
to a building shall be concealed within existing architectural features to the
maximum extent feasible. Any new architectural features proposed to conceal the
transmission equipment shall be designed to mimic the architectural features of
the building, shall be proportional to the building, and shall utilize
materials of a similar quality finish, color, and texture as the building.
      (3)   Roof-mounted transmission equipment or base stations shall be set
back from all roof edges to the maximum extent feasible with need for light-of-
sign transmission and reception of signals.
   L.   Outdoor Storage Prohibited. Except during a reasonable period during
construction or maintenance, as determined by the City Manager or the City
Manager's designee, outdoor storage of vehicles, equipment, tools, supplies,
materials, and other items at sites is prohibited.
   M.   Vehicular Access. All sites shall have vehicular access to and from the
site and a public street.
5.    Required Submissions. Applications submitted pursuant to this chapter,
excluding application's for eligible facilities requests (unless otherwise
noted), shall include the following materials:
   A.   Identifying Information. The legal name of applicant and name, title,
mailing address, telephone number, and email address of the individual
responsible for filing and processing applicant's application.
   B.   Application Designation. An attestation from applicant stating whether
the application constitutes an eligible facilities request, and application for
new tower construction; or an application for the initial placement or
installation of transmission equipment on wireless support structures,
modification of an existing tower or existing base station that constitutes a
substantial change, or other requests for construction or placement of
transmission equipment that do not constitute an eligible facilities request.
   C.   Explanation Regarding Request for New Tower. An explanation regarding
the reason for choosing the proposed location for construction of a new tower
and the reason applicant did not choose collocation. The explanation shall
include a sworn statement from an individual who has responsibility over
placement of the tower attesting that collocation within the area determined by
applicant to meet applicant's radio frequency engineering requirements for the
placement of a site would not result in the same mobile service functionality,
coverage, and capacity, is technically infeasible, or is economically
burdensome to applicant.
   D.   FCC Documentation. Applicant shall provide a copy of applicant's FCC
license or registration.
   E.   FAA Documentation. An affidavit attesting conformity with applicable
FAA lighting and marking requirements.
   F.   Evidence of Site Control. A legally binding document demonstrating
applicant has control of the site for purposes set forth in applicant's
application.
   G.   Site Plan. Complete and accurate plans and drawings, drawn to scale,
prepared, signed, and sealed by a State licensed engineer, land surveyor . or
architect, including:
      (1)   Depiction of all proposed transmission equipment, wireless
facilities, towers, base stations, and/or wireless support facilities;
      (2)   Elevation drawings demonstrating compliance with applicable height
requirements;
      (3)   A depiction of required fencing, landscaping, and/or screening;
      (4)   A depiction of all proposed utility runs and points of contact; and
      (5)   A depiction and description of the leased or licensed area showing
the relative location of all proposed transmission equipment, wireless
facilities, towers, base stations, or wireless support facilities, with all
rights-of-way or easements for access and utilities clearly identified.
   H.   Visual Analysis. A color visual analysis that includes to-scale visual
simulations that show unobstructed before-and-after construction/installation
views from at least four angles, together with a map indicating the location of
each view.
   I.   Design Justification. A clear and complete written analysis that
explains how the proposed design complies with applicable designed standards
set forth in Section
152.09 to the maximum extent feasible and identifies all applicable design
standards complete with a factually detailed explanation of how and why the
proposed design either complies or cannot feasibly comply.
   J.   Structural Assessment. A structural assessment of the proposed tower or
wireless support structure conducted by a State licensed engineer.
   K.   Compliance Statement. A certificate, report, or plan containing a
statement by a State licensed engineer indicating compliance with applicable
Building Codes or Safety Standards.
   L.   Other Published Materials. All other information or materials the City
may reasonably require from time to time, provided notice of the same is made
publicly available and designated as part of the application requirements.
   M.   Limitation of Information. The information requested for an application
shall not include information about or evaluate applicant's business decisions
with respect to its application, applicant's designed service, customer demand
for service, or quality of applicant's service to or from a particular area or
site.
6.    Disclosure of Public Records. All records, documents, and electronic data
submitted by applicant in the possession or custody of the City are subject to
the provisions of Chapter 22 of the Code of Iowa. Disclosure of such records
shall be consistent with applicable law.
7.    Duration of Approval. The duration of the approval shall not be limited,
except that construction of the approved structure or facilities shall be
commenced within two years of final approval, including the disposition of any
appeals, and diligently pursued to completion.
8.    Final Inspection.
   A.   A Certificate of Occupancy will only be granted upon satisfactory
evidence applicant's work pursuant to a granted application substantially
complies with approved plans, submissions, and specifications.
   B.   If it is found applicant's work does not substantially comply with the
approved plans, submissions, and specifications, applicant shall make all
changes required to bring such work into compliance promptly and prior to
operation.
9.    Limitation of Review for Other Potential Locations or Collocation. The
City's review will not:
   A.   Include evaluating the availability of other potential locations for
the placement or construction of a tower or transmission equipment; or
   B.   Require applicants to establish other options for collocation instead
of the construction of a new tower or modification of an existing tower or
existing base station that constitute a substantial change to an existing tower
or existing base station.
10.    Transmission Equipment and Technology. The City shall not dictate the
type of transmission equipment or technology to be used by applicant or
discriminate between different types of infrastructure or technology.
11.    Radio Frequency and Environmental Impacts. The City shall not:
   A.   Deny an application, in whole or in part, based on perceived or alleged
environmental effects of radio frequency emissions, as provided in 47 U.S.C.
332(c)(7)(B)(iv);
   B.   Establish or enforce regulations or procedures for radio frequency
signal strength or the adequacy of service quality; or
   C.   Impose environmental testing, sampling, or monitoring requirements or
other compliance measures for radio frequency emissions from transmission
equipment that are categorically excluded under FCC rules for radio frequency
emissions pursuant to 47.C.F.R. 1.1307(b)(l).
12.    Removal. The City shall not require the removal of existing towers, base
stations, or transmission equipment, wherever located, as a condition to
approval of an application.
13.    Emergency Power Systems. The City shall not prohibit the placement of
emergency power systems that comply with federal and State environmental
requirements.
14.    Zoning for Airports and Airspace. The City may administer and enforce
airport zoning pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 329 of the Code of Iowa
for the protection of navigable airspace.
15.    Surety Requirements. The City shall not impose surety requirements,
including bonds, escrow, deposits, letters of credit, or any other type of
financial surety, to ensure that abandoned or unused towers or transmission
equipment can be removed.
16.    Tower Space. The City shall not condition the approval of an application
on applicant's agreement to:
   A.   Provide space on or near the tower, base station, or wireless support
structure for the City or local governmental or nongovernmental services at
less than the market rate for such space, or
   B.   Provide other services via the structure or facilities at less than the
market rate for such services.
17.    Historic Properties and Districts. The City may administer and enforce
zoning regulations to approve or deny applications for proposed alterations to
exterior features of designated local historic landmarks. Applicants shall also
comply with federal and State historic property laws.
18.    Discrimination. The City shall not discriminate based on the ownership,
including ownership by the City, of any property, structure, or tower when
promulgating rules or procedures for siting wireless facilities or for
evaluating applications.
19.    Remedies. Applicants and the City may bring claims related to this
chapter to any court of competent jurisdiction.
152.08 APPLICATION REVIEW FOR APPLICATIONS IDENTIFIED AS ELIGIBLE FACILITIES
REQUESTS.
1.   Application for Eligible Facilities Requests. For those applications
identified by applicant and determined by the City to be an eligible facilities
request, the application shall be limited to the information necessary for the
City to consider whether an application is an eligible facilities request. The
application may not require applicant to demonstrate a need or business case
for the proposed modification.
2.    Type of Review. Upon receipt of an application for an eligible facilities
request pursuant to this chapter, the City Manager or the City Manager's
designee shall review such application to determine whether the application so
qualifies.
3.    Timeframe for Review. Within 60 days of the date applicant submits an
application seeking approval under this chapter, the City Manager or the City
Manager's designee shall approve the application unless it determines the
application is not covered by this chapter.
4.    Tolling of the Timeframe for Review. The 60-day review period begins to
run when the application is filed with the City, and may be tolled only by
agreement between the City and applicant, or in cases where the City Manager or
the City Manager's designee determines that the application is incomplete. The
timeframe for review is not tolled by a moratorium on the review of
applications.
   A.   To toll the timeframe for incompleteness, the City must provide written
notice to applicant within 30 days of receipt of the application, specifically
delineating all missing documents or information required for the application.
   B.   The timeframe for review begins running again when applicant makes a
supplemental submission in response to the City's notice of incompleteness.
   C.   Following a supplemental submission, the City will notify applicant
within 10 days that the supplemental submission did not provide the information
identified in the original notice delineating missing information. The
timeframe is tolled in the case of second or subsequent notices pursuant to the
procedures identified in Subsection 4. Second or subsequent notices of
incompleteness may not specify missing documents or information that were not
delineated in the original notice of incompleteness.
   D.   The City shall make its final decision to approve or disapprove the
application in writing within the timeframe provided (accounting for any
tolling).
5.    Interaction with Section 332(c)(7) of the United States Federal Code. If
the City determines applicant's request is not an eligible facilities request,
the City shall notify applicant in writing the application is being construed
otherwise and the basis of its determination. The timeframes under Sections
152.05 and 152.06 will begin to run from the issuance of the City's decision
that the application is not an eligible facilities request. To the extent such
information is necessary, the City may request additional information from
applicant to evaluate the application under Subsections 5 and 6, pursuant to
the limitations applicable to said sections.
6.    Failure to Act. In the event the City fails to approve or deny a request
seeking approval under this chapter within the timeframe for review (accounting
for any tolling), the request shall be deemed granted. The deemed grant does
not become effective until applicant notifies the City in writing after the
review period has expired (accounting for any tolling) that the application has
been deemed granted.
152.09 APPLICATIONS IDENTIFIED FOR NEW TOWER CONSTRUCTION.
1.   Application. For those applications identified by applicant and determined
by the City to propose construction of a new tower, applicant shall submit the
necessary copies and attachments of the application to the City Manager or the
City Manager's designee and comply with applicable local ordinances concerning
land use and the appropriate permitting processes.
2.    Explanation for Proposed Location. Notwithstanding the provisions of
Section
152.07(9), the City may require applicant to provide an explanation regarding
the reason for choosing the proposed location for construction of a new tower
and the reason applicant did not choose collocation. The explanation shall
include a sworn statement from an individual who has responsibility over
placement of the tower attesting that collocation within the area determined by
applicant to meet applicant's radio frequency engineering requirements for the
placement of a site would not result in the same mobile service functionality,
coverage, and capacity, is technically infeasible, or is economically
burdensome to applicant.
3.    Timeframe for Review. Within 150 days of the date on which applicant
submits an application seeking approval to construct a new tower, the City
shall approve or deny the application, unless another date is specified in a
written agreement between the City and applicant. The City Manager or the City
Manager's designee shall review the application for conformity with applicable
local zoning regulations, building permit requirements, and consistency with
Chapter 8C of the Code of Iowa.
4.    Tolling of the Timeframe for Review. The 150-day review period begins to
run when the application is filed, and may be tolled only by agreement between
the City and applicant, or in cases where the City Manager or the City
Manager's designee determines that the application is incomplete. The City
Manager or the City Manager's designee shall review the application for
conformity with applicable local zoning regulations, building permit
requirements, and consistency with this chapter. The timeframe for review is
not tolled by a moratorium on the review of applications.
   A.   To toll the timeframe for incompleteness, the City must provide written
notice to applicant within 30 days of receipt of the application, specifically
delineating all missing documents or information required for the application.
The City's timeframe to review is tolled beginning on the date the notice is
sent .
   B.   The City's timeframe of 150 days for review begins running again when
the applicant makes a supplemental submission in response to the City's notice
of incompleteness.
   C.   The City's 150-day timeframe for review does not toll if the City
requests any information the City may not lawfully consider pursuant to the
provisions of Section 8C.3 of the Code of Iowa .
   D.   Following a supplemental submission, the City will notify applicant
within 10 days that the supplemental submission did not provide the information
identified in the original notice delineating missing information. The
timeframe is tolled in the case of second or subsequent notices pursuant to the
procedures identified in Section
152.09(5). Second or subsequent notices of incompleteness may not specify
missing documents or information that were not delineated in the original
notice of incompleteness.
   E.   The City shall make its final decision to approve or disapprove the
application in writing within the timeframe provided (accounting for any
tolling).
5.    Failure to Act. In the event the City fails to approve or deny a request
seeking approval under this Subsection 5 within the timeframe for review
(accounting for any tolling), the request shall be deemed granted.
152.10 APPLICATION REVIEW FOR FACILITIES THAT DO NOT CONSTITUTE ELIGIBLE
FACILITIES REQUESTS.
1.   Application. For those applications identified by applicant and determined
by the City to be for the initial placement or installation of transmission
equipment on wireless support structures, modification of an existing tower or
existing base station that constitutes a substantial change, or other requests
for construction or placement of transmission equipment that do not constitute
eligible facilities requests an eligible facilities request, applicant shall
submit the necessary copies and attachments of the application to the City
Manager or the City Manager's designee and comply with applicable local
ordinances concerning land use or regulations concerning land use and zoning
and the appropriate local permitting processes.
2.    Timeframe for Review. Within 90 days of the date on which applicant
submits an application seeking approval to construct a new tower, the City
shall approve or deny the application, unless another date is specified in a
written agreement between the City and applicant. The City Manager or the City
Manager's designee shall review the application for conformity with applicable
local zoning regulations, building permit requirements, and consistency with
Chapter 8C of the Code of Iowa.
3.    Tolling of the Timeframe for Review. The 90-day review period begins to
run when the application is filed, and may be tolled only by agreement by the
City and applicant, or in cases where the City Manager or the City Manager's
designee determines that the application is incomplete. The City Manager or the
City Manager's designee shall review the application for conformity with
applicable local zoning regulations, building permit requirements, and
consistency with this chapter. The timeframe for review is not tolled by a
moratorium on the review of applications.
   A.   To toll the timeframe for incompleteness, the City must provide written
notice to applicant within 30 days of receipt of the application, specifically
delineating all missing documents or information required in the application
and the City's timeframe to review is tolled beginning the date the notice is
sent.
   B.   The City's timeframe of 90 days for review begins running again when
applicant makes a supplemental submission in response to the City's notice of
incompleteness.
   C.   The City's 90-day timeframe for review does not toll if the City
requests information regarding any of the considerations the City may not
consider as described in Section 8C.3 of the Code of Iowa .
   D.   Following a supplemental submission, the City will notify applicant
within 10 days that the supplemental submission did not provide the information
identified in the original notice delineating missing information. The
timeframe is tolled in the case of second or subsequent notices pursuant to the
procedures identified in Subsection 4. Second or subsequent notices of
incompleteness may not specify missing documents or information that were not
delineated in the original notice of incompleteness.
   E.   The City shall make its final decision to approve or disapprove the
Application in writing within the timeframe.
4.    Failure to Act. In the event the City fails to approve or deny a request
seeking approval under this section within the timeframe for review (accounting
for any tolling), the request shall be deemed granted.
152.11 PROPRIETARY LEASING OF CITY OWNED OR CONTROLLED PROPERTY.
1.   Leasing of City Owned or Controlled Property. The City reserves all rights
to leasing of City owned or controlled property, but shall offer the market
rate value for use of the property.
2.    Lease Term. Leases shall be for no less than 20 years, but all or a
portion of the property may be subject to release for public purposes after 15
years.
3.    Appraisal Process for Market Value Determination. If the City and
applicant cannot agree on the market rate for a lease on real property or
structures owned by the City, the City and applicant shall follow the process
set forth in Section 8C.6 of the Code of Iowa.
152.12 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
There shall be a rebuttable presumption that any tower, transmission equipment,
or wireless facilities regulated pursuant to this chapter that are not operated
for a continuous period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. This
presumption may be rebutted by showing the same serves as auxiliary, backup, or
emergency equipment or is otherwise not abandoned. For any tower, transmission
equipment, or wireless facilities deemed abandoned, all related equipment shall
be removed within 90 days following receipt of notice from the City to remove
the same. Irrespective of any agreement between them to the contrary, the owner
or operator of the abandoned facilities and the owner of the land or building
to which they are affixed, shall be jointly and severally responsible for their
removal. If the abandoned tower, transmission equipment, or wireless facilities
are not removed within 90 days of written notice from the City, the City may
remove the same and recover from the owner or operator of the same, or the
owner of the land or building, all costs incurred by the City as a result,
including reasonable attorneys fees and court costs. If there are two or more
users of a tower, transmission equipment, or wireless facility, the same shall
not be considered abandoned until all users cease using the same.
CHAPTER 153
BUILDING, RESIDENTIAL, AND FIRE SAFETY CODE
153.01 Short Title               153.09 Administration and Enforcement
153.02 Purpose and Scope         153.10 Registration of Building Contractor
153.03 Definitions               153.11 Revocation of Registration
153.04 Adoption of Building Code 153.12 Use of Registrant's Name by Another
153.05 Amendments                153.13 Contractor License Required
153.06 Permit to Whom Issued     153.14 Right of Entry
153.07 Application for Permit    153.15 Appeals
153.08 Plans and Specifications  153.16 Violation and Penalty
 
153.01 SHORT TITLE.
This chapter shall be known as the City of Maquoketa, Building Code, and may be
so cited.
153.02 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
It is the purpose of this chapter to provide minimum standards to safeguard
life or limb, health, property, and public welfare by regulating and
controlling the design, construction, quality of materials, use and occupancy,
location and maintenance of all buildings and structures within the City, and
certain equipment specifically regulated herein; to provide for the issuance of
permits, inspection of buildings, the registration of building contractors, the
collection of fees, the repeal of ordinances in conflict herewith and penalties
for the violation of this chapter.
153.03 DEFINITIONS.
1.    Building Contractor. Any person, firm, corporation, or other association
doing any building work for hire for which a permit is required pursuant to
Section 105 of the IBC other than a building owner performing their own work.
2.    Contractor. Any person, firm, corporation, or other association doing any
plumbing, mechanical, HVAC, electrical, refrigeration, sheet metal, or hydronic
systems services for hire for which a permit is required pursuant to Section
105 of the IBC other than a building owner performing their own work.
153.04 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE.
Except has hereinafter limited or amended, the following are hereby adopted in
full as the complete Building Code of the City for all structures covered and
defined within:
1.    The International Residential Code (IRC), 2018 Edition, as published by
the International Code Council (ICC), and
2.    The International Building Code (IBC), 2018 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council (ICC), and
3.    The National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 101 Life Safety Code 2018
Edition, as published by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA).
153.05 AMENDMENTS.
1.   The International Residential Code (IRC), 2018 Edition, as above
referenced is hereby amended as follows:
   A.   Section R101.1 insert City of Maquoketa as name of jurisdiction.
   B.   Section R105.2 - Building 1 delete 200 square feet and insert in lieu
thereof 25 square feet .
   C.   Section R105.2 - Building 2 delete Fences in residential districts .
   D.   Section R105.2 - Mechanical add 9. Water heater replacement.
   E.   Section R105.2 - Mechanical add 10. Furnace replacement.
   F.   Section R105.5 - Expiration begin with Every permit shall be valid for
1 year or until the project is complete.
   G.   Delete Section R313 - Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems
2.    The International Building Code (IBC), 2018 Edition as above referenced
is hereby amended as follows:
   A.   Section 101.1 insert City of Maquoketa as name of jurisdiction.
   B.   Section 101.4.2 - Delete and insert in lieu thereof all mechanical
installations shall complete with State Mechanical Code as adopted by the Iowa
Department of Public Health .
   C.   Section 101.4.3 - Delete and insert in lieu thereof all plumbing
installations shall complete with State Plumbing Code as adopted by the Iowa
Department of Public Health Iowa .
   D.   Delete Section 101.4.4 Property maintenance.
   E.   Section 101.4.5 - Delete International Fire Code and insert in lieu
thereof NFPA 101 Life Safety Code .
   F.   Section 102.6.2 Buildings previously occupied, delete International
Fire Code and insert in lieu thereof NFPA 101 Life Safety Code . Delete
International Property Maintenance Code .
   G.   Delete Section 105.1.1 Annual permit.
   H.   Delete Section 105.1.2 Annual permit records.
   I.   Section 105.2 - Building 1 delete 120 square feet and insert in lieu
thereof 25 square feet .
   J.   Section 105.2 - Building 2 delete Fences in residential districts .
   K.   Section 105.2 - Building 12 delete R-3 and U and inset in lieu thereof
all occupancies .
   L.   Section 105.2 - Mechanical add 9. Water heater replacement.
   M.   Section 105.2 - Mechanical add 10. Furnace replacement.
   N.   Section 105.5 - Expiration begin with Every permit shall be valid for 1
year or until the project is complete.
   O.   Section 110.4 Inspection agencies add individuals so that it reads
approved inspections agencies and individuals, provided that such agencies and
individuals satisfy the requirements as to qualifications and reliability .
3.    The National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 101 Life Safety Code, as
above referenced is adopted without amendment.
153.06 PERMIT TO WHOM ISSUED.
A permit required by Section 105 of the IBC and Section R105 of the IRC shall
be issued only to a registered building contractor, however, any permit
required by this chapter may be issued to the owner of a building to do any
work regulated by this chapter in that building, including the usual accessory
buildings; provided, that the owner shall personally purchase all material and
perform all labor in connection with the work. All work done in accordance with
this exception must meet all the requirements of this chapter and shall be
inspected.
153.07 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
Application for permit shall be made to the Building Official, as established
in Section
165.43(1), or a designee established by the City Manager pursuant to rules
provided therefore and on forms provided by City Hall. The application shall be
accompanied by fees in accordance with the schedule of fees established in
accordance with Section
165.43(5) and remitted to City Hall.
153.08 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
Plans and specifications showing the proposed work in the necessary detail
shall be submitted when requested by the Building Official or a designee. If a
permit is denied, the applicant may submit revised plans and specifications
without payment of any additional fee. If, in the course of the work, it is
found necessary to make any change from the plans and specifications on which a
permit was issued, amended plans, and specifications, and fees in the amount of
half the fees originally required shall be submitted. A supplementary permit,
subject to the same conditions applicable to the original application for a
permit, shall be issued to cover the change.
153.09 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
It shall be the duty of the Building Official or a designee to administer and
enforce the provisions of this chapter and to make any required inspections or
tests; and to establish departmental rules for the effective and efficient
administration and enforcement hereof.
153.10 REGISTRATION OF BUILDING CONTRACTOR.
1.   All building contractors shall be registered with the Clerk's office of
the City.
2.    Any person desiring to be registered as a building contractor shall
register with the Clerk on forms provided therefore and pay an annual
registration fee. Annual registrations provided hereunder shall expire the last
day of September of each year, but may be renewed prior to the expiration date.
Building contractors with expired registrations may not secure building
permits.
3.    The registrant shall supply the contractor registration number required
by Chapter 91C of the Code of Iowa and proof of insurance or bond.
153.11 REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION.
The Building Official or a designee may revoke any registration if it is
obtained through willful nondisclosure, misstatement, or misrepresentation of a
material fact, or if a material provision of the Building Code has been
violated. Before a registration may be revoked, the registrant shall be given
notice in writing, either personally or as required by the applicable Iowa
Rules of Civil Procedure, enumerating the charges against them. They shall be
entitled to a fair hearing before the Building Official or a designee neither
sooner than five days nor later than 30 days after receipt of the notice. The
decision of the Building Official or a designee may be appealed to the Council
at its next regular meeting. The Council may affirm, amend, remand, or reverse
the Building Official's decision. A person whose registration has been revoked
shall not be permitted to apply for another registration within one year from
the date of revocation.
153.12 USE OF REGISTRANT S NAME BY ANOTHER.
No registrant shall allow their name to be used by another person either for
the purpose of doing business or work under the registration. Every registrant
shall notify the Inspector of the address of their place of business, if any,
and the name under which such business is carried on and shall give immediate
notice to the Inspector of any change in either. No registration issued under
this chapter shall be transferable.
153.13 CONTRACTOR LICENSE REQUIRED.
Any contractor working in the City on a project requiring a building permit
shall be licensed with the State.
153.14 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Building Official or a designee may enter any premises on proof of
authority for the purpose of inspecting any building work, at such times as may
be reasonably necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
153.15 APPEALS.
1.   Building Appeal Board. The Council, in regular, special, or executive
session, shall sit as a Building Appeal Board and, on appeals under this
chapter, may seek and retain additional professional counsel schooled in
matters contained in this chapter. The Council may by motion appoint a
committee of not less than three members of the Council to act as the Building
Appeal Board, and a simple majority of either the committee, if so appointed,
or the Council shall be deemed sufficient to settle matters brought before the
board.
2.    Meeting of the Appeal Board. The Council, or committee if so appointed,
sitting as an appeal board, shall hold meetings from time to time and conduct
hearings on appeals. There shall be a meeting not more than 30 days after the
filing of an appeal, and if such meeting does not occur within 30 days after
filing an appeal, the appeal shall be deemed granted in favor of the appellant.
3.    Appeal. Any person aggrieved by any ruling, decision, interpretation, or
order of the Building Official shall have the right to appeal to the Building
Appeal Board by filing a written notice of such appeal with the Clerk within 10
days from the date of the Building Official's ruling. If such a notice is
filed, the appeal board shall set a time and place for hearing and so notify
the party that has filed the appeal. The hearing shall be open to the public
and subject to the time limitation set out in Subsection 2 above. The Building
Appeal Board by majority vote shall affirm, modify, or reverse an appealed
ruling, decision, interpretation, or order of the Building Official. The
Building Appeal Board may permit such variance that can be made without
increasing the hazards to the health or safety of persons or property, and when
the granting thereof will not violate the intent and purpose of this chapter.
Mere inconvenience to the appellant is not grounds for the granting of such
variance.
153.16 VIOLATION AND PENALTY.
Anyone violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall upon conviction,
be subject to the penalties in accordance with
Chapter 3.
CHAPTER 154
MAINTAINING BOULEVARD AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
 
154.01 Definitions                          154.06 Billing
154.02 Maintenance of Boulevard and Private 154.07 Appeals
Property
154.03 Exceptions                           154.08 Emergency
154.04 Failure to Comply                    154.09 Violation and Penalty
154.05 Notice to Owners
 
154.01 DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.    Boulevard means the property outside a property owner's lot and property
lines and inside the curb lines upon the public streets, or in the absence of a
curb from the traveled portion of the public street to the lot or property
line.
2.    Inspector means the City Inspector or their designee.
3.    Naturalized area means a garden cultivated with native and non-native
perennial flowering plants, including but not limited to aster, bee balm,
black-eyed Susan, blazing star, coneflower, hyssop, mint, and phlox.
4.    Private property means all real estate within the owner's property or lot
lines as shown on the plats of the County Auditor.
5.    Property owner means the owner of real estate as shown in the records of
the County Auditor.
6.    Public street means the area from curb to curb or in the absence of
curbing, the traveled portion of a public street, highway, road, or alley
within the City limits.
7.    Street trees as the terms is defined in Section
151.01.
8.    Waterway means a river, lake, pond, stream, creek, wetland, or other
watercourse and adjacent banks.
9.    Zone and areas zoned means the Residential-1, Residential-2, Residential-
3, Business-1, Business-2, Industrial-1, Industrial-2, or Industrial-
3 districts with boundaries established under Section
165.03 of the Code of Ordinances and set forth upon the Official Zoning Map as
it may, from time to time, be amended.
154.02 MAINTENANCE OF BOULEVARD AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
All property owners shall maintain their property and the abutting boulevard
according to the following standards:
1.    In districts zoned R-1, R-2, R-3, B-1, or B-2, all grasses, weeds, vines,
and brush shall be cut or destroyed when said growth exceeds six inches in
height.
2.    In areas zoned other than R-1, R-2, R-3, B-1, or B-2, all grasses, weeds,
vines, and brush shall be cut or destroyed when said growth exceeds 10 inches
in height.
3.    In the boulevard in all districts, all grasses and plants shall be cut or
destroyed when said growth exceeds 12 inches in height.
4.    Keep the abutting boulevard free of holes, excavations, protrusions, or
other obstacles which could cause injury to the public.
5.    Further, it shall be unlawful to discharge into the storm sewer system
any yard waste, sticks or branches, garbage or trash, sand or silt, or any
other material in such a way as to obstruct the system from functioning
properly. It shall also be unlawful to discharge or place such materials into a
public right-of-way (such as a street) in a manner likely to cause these
materials to eventually accumulate in the storm sewer system or create a safety
hazard.
6.    In all zoning districts, the abutting property owner is required to
maintain all abutting boulevard property, except that a property owner is not
required to remove diseased trees or dead wood on the publicly owned property
or right-of-way. This duty to maintain abutting boulevard property includes,
but is not limited to, the duty to maintain sidewalks, grass areas, and any
retaining walls located on the publicly owned property or right-of-way.
154.03 EXCEPTIONS.
1.   Street trees are excepted from the requirements and enforcement of this
chapter.
2.    Waterways may exceed the standards established by this chapter, except
that any growth of weeds, vines, or brush shall be cut or destroyed when such
growth exceeds two feet in height.
3.    Farm crops, pasture, vineyards, orchards, and garden plants grown or
located on private property may exceed the requirements of this chapter.
However, weeds and brush in such areas shall be cut when the height of such
weeds or brush exceeds two feet.
4.    The owner of a hillside, waterway, or gully located on private property
may make application to the inspector to exceed the requirements of this
chapter for the hillside, waterway, or gully located on private property and,
upon receipt of such an application, the Council shall make a finding whether
or not the hillside, waterway, or gully located on private property may be
maintained as a natural area. However, weeds and brush in such areas shall be
cut when the height of such weeds or brush exceeds two feet.
5.    The inspector may make a similar application for hillsides, waterways,
and gullies located on publicly owned property.
6.    Applications to maintain hillsides, waterways, and gullies as naturalized
areas shall be reviewed and approved by the City Manager and records shall be
kept by the Clerk.
154.04 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
If the property owner fails to maintain the property as required under this
chapter after notice is given as provided in this chapter, the inspector shall
order the work to be done by City employees or by a contractor. The total cost
and expense of the work done, including any administrative fees, shall be paid
by the property owner. Failure to pay shall result in the cost being assessed
against the property for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
154.05 NOTICE TO OWNERS.
Notice to the owner or person in control of lands within the City subject to
the provision of this chapter shall be as follows: The City Manager or their
designee shall cause to be published at least once per mowing season
(preferably on or before April 15 of each year) in a newspaper of general
circulation within the City a notice stating that work of cutting or destroying
weeds, vines, brush, or other growth is required to be done during the months
of May through October, inclusive, and a statement that property owners have
three days, not including Saturdays, Sundays, holidays, within which such
owners may cause the work to be done. Further, the notice shall state that
failure to comply after publication of the notice will result in the work being
done by the City, and the costs incurred by the City shall be assessed against
the property in the manner provided by law. No further notice shall be
required. In addition, this notice shall inform the property owner that they
have the right to appeal that matter to the City Manager under Section
154.07. The City may also issue courtesy reminders to property owners as
additional notice.
154.06 BILLING.
Each owner shall be sent, by first-class U.S. mail to the address noted on the
tax rolls of the City, a bill for the work performed informing the owner of the
cost of such work and the Council intent to assess the cost if not paid in 10
days to the Clerk. Any bill remaining unpaid after the 10-day period may be
assessed against the property in the manner provided by law.
154.07 APPEALS.
If the property owner objects to the Notice of Action required under this
chapter or to a statement of costs, the objection shall be filed by the
property owner with the Clerk in writing within seven days of the date of the
notice or statement. The objection shall be heard by the City Manager or their
designee without unnecessary delay and the City Manager shall make a decision
regarding the notice or statement and shall immediately notify the property
owner of the decision in writing. Failure to appeal within the time specified
constitutes a waiver of all rights to a hearing. A property owner aggrieved by
the decision by the City Manager, or their designee may appeal the decision to
the Council by making a request in writing that states the objection to the
decision within seven days of the date of the decision. The Council shall hear
the appeal at the next scheduled Council meeting and the Council may uphold or
modify or overrule the decision of the City Manager. An appeal from the
decision of the Council must be filed in the District Court within 10 days of
the date of the Council's decision.
154.08 EMERGENCY.
If the Inspector determines that a clear and compelling emergency exists, the
Inspector may cause the necessary maintenance required under this chapter to be
done immediately without prior notification to the property owner. Before the
cost of the work can be assessed to the affected property, the property owner
shall be notified as provided in this chapter and offered the opportunity to
appeal as provided in this chapter.
154.09 VIOLATION AND PENALTY.
It shall be a violation of this chapter, and the conditions of owner's property
is hereby declared a public nuisance, if a property owner fails to do the
action required to remedy a violation of the terms of this chapter as stated in
the notice under Section
154.05 of this chapter and has failed to state an objection to the notice as
provided Section
154.07. A violation of this chapter shall constitute a municipal infraction.
Violators shall be subject to any and all penalties provided by
Chapter 3.
CHAPTER 155
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
 
155.01 Purpose and General Objectives 155.04 Application
155.02 Definitions                    155.05 Stormwater Management Requirements
155.03 Exemptions                     155.06 Fees Established
 
155.01 PURPOSE AND GENERAL OBJECTIVES.
1.   It is the purpose of the chapter to establish policies to comprehensively
manage and control stormwater runoff in a safe and economical manner in
developing areas for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, and general
welfare of the population, and for the protection of property.
2.    It is also the intent of this chapter to provide for stormwater storage
within the City where detention basin facilities have been determined to be
beneficial in reducing the peak runoff to subservient lands.
3.    Requirements shall be established by this chapter in an effort to manage
stormwater runoff from development sites. Except as exempted in this chapter, a
stormwater management plan, as set forth herein, will be required as part of
proposed development activities.
4.    It is a further purpose of this chapter to adopt engineering methods and
techniques for estimating stormwater runoff which can be updated as technology
improves, and to systematically monitor the effectiveness of the stormwater
management program.
155.02 DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.    Capacity of a stormwater facility means the maximum volume or rate of
conveyance available in a stormwater management facility, including freeboard,
to store or convey stormwater without damage to public or private property.
2.    City engineer means the engineer designated by the Council to review a
stormwater management plan.
3.    Civil engineer means a professional engineer licensed in the State to
practice in the field of civil works.
4.    Control structure means that part of a stormwater management facility
designated to regulate the stormwater runoff release rate.
5.    Detention basin means a stormwater management facility designed,
constructed or modified to provide short term storage of stormwater runoff,
which reduces the peak outflow to a rate less than the peak inflow.
6.    Development means either:
   A.   The subdivision of real estate as defined in Section
170.05(16)(D);
   B.   Any improvement, development, or redevelopment of a site one-half acre
or larger; or
   C.   The improvement, development, or redevelopment of an area greater than
5,000 square feet if it is located in the B-2 Central Business District as
defined in Section
165.16 .
7.    Drainage area means an area of land contributing to stormwater runoff.
8.    Site means a lot, parcel, or tract of land, or portion thereof, where
development is occurring or has occurred.
9.    Storm sewer system means facilities for the conveyance of stormwater
runoff, typically a series of conduits and appurtenances, to accommodate
frequent storms not generating large peak discharges. These facilities usually
include conduits, street gutters and swales.
10.    Stormwater management facilities means any buildings, structures,
detention basins or other facilities for the management of stormwater runoff as
required by a stormwater management plan.
11.    Stormwater management plan means a site plan, certified by a civil
engineer, including materials, construction phasing, grading activities, and
methods used for mitigation of increased stormwater runoff from a site.
12.    Stormwater runoff means the flow of water resulting from precipitation
upon a surface area, not absorbed by the soil or plant material.
13.    Stormwater runoff release rate means the amount of stormwater runoff
discharged from dominant land to servient land. Elevation shall determine which
land is dominant and which is servient.
155.03 EXEMPTIONS.
The following are exempt from the requirements of this chapter:
1.    Agricultural use of land.
2.    Emergencies posing an immediate danger to life or property, or
substantial flood or fire hazards.
3.    Land within floodplain areas as designated in the Federal Emergency
Management Agency maps in effect at the time of development or determined to be
in a floodplain by the City Engineer at the time of development.
4.    Areas where it is otherwise demonstrated that the proposed development
will not produce any significant change to the existing pre-application
hydrology; except that this exemption shall not be available for property
located in the B-2 Central Business District as defined in Section
165.16.
5.    Areas deemed appropriate by the City Engineer.
155.04 APPLICATION.
1.   The requirements of this chapter shall apply to all development within the
City.
2.    Stormwater detention basins intended to serve single family or multi-
family residential developments shall be constructed by a developer and shall
be privately owned and maintained following their inspection and acceptance by
the City, unless otherwise approved by the City.
3.    Stormwater detention basins intended to serve commercial development
shall be constructed by a developer and shall be privately owned and maintained
unless otherwise approved by the City.
155.05 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
1.   For purposes of obtaining approval of a stormwater management plan, a plan
for the site shall be submitted to the City Manager for review and approval by
the City Engineer. All design criteria and plan details shall be in conformance
with generally recognized engineering principles and the stormwater management
policy.
2.    Construction of stormwater management facilities shall be in conformance
with the approved stormwater management plan for the site.
3.    The stormwater management plan, including on-site water detention
facilities, shall be reviewed, and approved by the City Engineer prior to the
issuance of building permits for the site. The improvements shall be
constructed prior to occupancy. The requirements of this subsection may be
deferred at the discretion of the City.
4.    For sites on which privately owned and maintained stormwater detention or
conveyance facilities are located, the property owner shall be responsible for
the following:
   A.   All future grading, repairs, and maintenance.
   B.   Maintenance of the minimum stormwater detention volume, as approved by
the City Engineer.
   C.   Maintenance of the detention basin control structure(s) and discharge
pipe(s) to insure the maximum theoretical stormwater runoff release rate, as
approved by the City Engineer, is not increased.
5.    The Council may require the formation of a property owner's association
to assume responsibility for stormwater management facilities.
6.    The property owner shall place no fill material, nor erect any buildings,
obstructions, or other improvements on the area reserved for stormwater
detention purposes, unless approved otherwise by the City Engineer.
7.    The Council may, in its discretion, require the property owner to
dedicate to the City, by instrument or final plating, any property on which
public stormwater detention basins will be located. Ingress-egress easements
for maintenance of public facilities shall be provided prior to final plat
approval.
8.    The City Engineer may inspect any public or private site at any time to
determine compliance with these regulations. If deemed necessary by the City
Engineer, the property owner shall provide certification by a Civil Engineer
verifying the minimum stormwater detention volume and the maximum theoretical
stormwater runoff release rate, as required by Section
155.05(4), are in conformance with the approved design.
9.    Upon determination that a site is not in compliance with these
regulations, the City Manager may issue an order to comply. The order shall
describe the problem and specify a date by which compliance must be achieved.
The City may pursue all legal and equitable remedies available in the event of
noncompliance by the deadline contained in such a notice, which remedies may
include, but not be limited to, a municipal infraction. The City's remedies may
be cumulative.
10.    Except as provided in this chapter, no person shall engage in
construction of stormwater management facilities unless a stormwater management
plan has been reviewed and approved by the City Engineer.
155.06 FEES ESTABLISHED.
For any development, a stormwater plan fee shall be charged which shall be
calculated to reimburse the City for all costs associated with the review and
approval of the developer's stormwater management plan, including, but not
limited to, expenses for the City Engineer, City Attorney, and the reasonable
cost of City staff time devoted to review and approval of the stormwater
management plan and construction of the required stormwater management
facilities.
CHAPTER 156
INDUSTRIAL PARK COVENANTS
 
156.01 Industrial Park Boundaries 156.05 Utilities
156.02 Development and Planning   156.06 Nuisances and Hazards
156.03 Outside Areas              156.07 Signs
156.04 Parking and Dockage
 
156.01 INDUSTRIAL PARK BOUNDARIES.
A parcel of property located in the following described real estate, known as
the Second Industrial Park, and described as:
1.    Parcel I:
The Northeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 30, Township 84
North, Range 3 East of the 5th Principal Meridian, Jackson County, Iowa,
excepting therefrom the Northerly 60 feet thereof.
2.    Parcel II:
The Southerly 644.6 feet of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of
Section 19, Township 84 North, Range 3 East of the 5th Principal Meridian,
Jackson County, Iowa, excepting therefrom the following:
   (1)   The Southerly 60 feet of said Southeast Quarter of the Southeast
Quarter of said Section 19.
   (2)   The Easterly 60 feet of the Southerly 644.6 feet of said Southeast
Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of said Section 19.
   (3)   A triangular shaped portion of said Southeast Quarter of said Section
19, more particularly described as follows: Beginning at the Southeast corner
of said Southeast Quarter, thence Northerly along the Easterly line thereof a
distance of 230 feet, thence Southwesterly to a point on the Southerly line of
said Southeast Quarter, said point being 230 feet Westerly of said Southeast
corner, thence Easterly along said Southerly line a distance of 230 feet to the
point of beginning, excepting the Southerly 60 feet and the Easterly 60 feet
thereof, containing 0.14 of an acre, more or less.
3.    Parcel III:
All that part of the following described real estate: Commencing at the
Southeast Corner of the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of said
Section 19. Township 84 North, Range 3 East of the 5th Principal Meridian,
Jackson County, Iowa, and running thence north 80 rods, thence West 420 feet,
thence South 600 feet, thence in a Southeasterly direction along the line of
the Davenport and St. Paul Railroad (later known as Chicago, Milwaukee, St.
Paul, and Pacific Railroad) to the South Line of said Section 19, thence East
170 feet to the place of beginning.
Lying and being located South of the South line of one certain easement for
railroad track and utility purposes dated May 11, 1963, and recorded in Book I,
Page 333, Office of the Recorder of Jackson County, Iowa, and subsequently
assigned to the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul, and Pacific Railroad Company, by
instrument dated January 13, 1964, and recorded in Book J, Page 364, Office of
the Recorder aforesaid.
Excepting therefrom all that part of the Southerly 60 feet of said Southwest
Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of said Section 19, which lies East of the
right-of-way of the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul, and Pacific Railroad shall be
subject to restrictive covenants listed in this chapter.
156.02  DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING.
1.   Approval of Plans. Before commencing the construction or alteration of any
buildings, enclosures, fences, loading docks, parking facilities, storage
yards, or any other structures or permanent improvements on or to any site or
lot, the property owner shall first submit site plans and plans and
specifications thereof to the City for its written approval. In the event that
the City shall fail to approve or disapprove such building plans,
specifications, and site plans within 10 days after they have been submitted to
it, such approval shall not be required and this covenant will be deemed to
have been complied with.
2.    Replatting or Subdividing. The owner of any lot or parcel within this
development shal1 never at any time, replat, subdivide, or resubdivide any lot
into a smaller lot or parcel or in any other manner change this plat without
first obtaining the prior written approval of the City.
3.    Operations within Enclosed Buildings. All operations and activities shall
be conducted or maintained within completely enclosed buildings except:
   A.   Off-street parking and loading spaces;
   B.   Employee recreational facilities;
   C.   Outdoor exterior storage.
4.    Time for Construction or Repurchase. Any purchaser of real estate in this
subdivision or a purchaser's successor in interest shall begin good faith
construction of a permanent building within two years from the date the title
is transferred to the purchaser. If such good faith construction is not started
within said period, the City shall have the right to repurchase the real estate
for the purchase price paid by the initial purchaser and the purchaser or the
purchaser's successor in interest shall execute all instruments necessary to
re-convey the property to the City. The City may agree in writing to extend the
time construction is to commence upon written application of the purchaser or
the purchaser's successor in interest.
5.    Land Area Coverage. The following chart sets forth the maximum and
minimum land area coverage for various lot sizes.
 
                    Maximum percentage Combined maximum
                    of total lot area  percentage of lot  Minimum percentage of
                    available for lot  area available for total lot area to be
Total Lot Area      area coverage by   land area coverage left open, without
                    building related   by building and    construction of any
                    features.          vehicle related    kind.
                                       features.
0 to 5 Acres        50%                60%                40%
5.01 to 10.00 Acres 55%                65%                35%
10.01 to 20 Acres   60%                70%                30%
 
156.03 OUTSIDE AREAS.
1.   Landscaping. All property shall be properly landscaped and maintained in a
park-like, well-kept condition with suitable shrubs, trees and/or ground cover.
The areas created by observance of setback requirements shall be landscaped or
used for green areas.
2.    Outside Storage. Outside open storage is allowed in the side or rear yard
when the area is properly screened from view from all sides by means of an
opaque fence or wall, minimum of six feet high, or to a height at least equal
to the materials or equipment stored, whichever is greater. Such storage shall
be confined to locations in the rear or at the side of said building and behind
the front line of said building as extended and shall be constructed within the
applicable setback lines, as outlined in the Zoning Code, Chapter 165, as
amended.
3.    Maintenance of Undeveloped Areas. That portion of each tract that is not
improved with buildings, parking facilities, loading facilities, and lawn areas
shall be seeded to a cover planting which grows to a height not to exceed
approximately 18 inches, and at all times shall be attractively maintained. No
part of any of the land area shall be planted in cultivated row crops.
4.    Maintenance of Developed Areas. No building or structure above ground
shall extend beyond the building lines prescribed above and it is hereby
declared that the yards or areas created by the observance of the building or
setback lines established in the Zoning Code, Chapter 165, may be used or
developed either for attractive open landscape and green areas or for off-
street, dust-free, stabilized parking areas. All landscaping shall be properly
maintained in a sightly and well-kept condition. Parking areas shall be
likewise maintained in a sightly and well-kept condition. Materials may be
stored outside in setback areas in accordance with Section
156.03(2).
5.    Waste. No garbage or decomposable animal or vegetable waste shall be
placed in storage upon any lot or tract except in tightly covered metal or
plastic containers. All of the refuse shall be placed in containers or
enclosures in a manner not constituting a nuisance by reason of wind litter,
disorderly appearance, or abnormal fire hazards. The owners shall be
responsible for the removal of garbage and other refuse from the premises at
least once a week.
6.    Fences. All fencing or screening, for security or for other purposes,
shall be attractive in appearance and shall be of all metal industrial type or
galvanized or nonferrous material. No fence, masonry wall, hedge, or mass
planting shall be permitted to extend beyond the building setback lines as set
forth above except with the prior written approval of the City.
156.04 PARKING AND DOCKAGE.
1.   Building Construction. The outside walls of all buildings shall be of
masonry construction or pre-engineered metal buildings and/or their equivalent
attractively erected and painted. Attractive appearance and durability shall be
used as criteria by the City in judging equivalency. Building construction and
design shall be used to create a structure with four attractive sides of high
quality, rather than place all emphasis on the front elevation of the building
while neglecting or downgrading the aesthetic appeal of the side and rear
elevations of the building.
2.    Docks. It is contemplated that truck loading docks will be installed at
each building in such location and in such quantity to permit trucks to load
and unload or to wait to do so without hindering traffic upon public or park
streets. No curb cut or entrance shall be constructed within 75 feet of the
nearest intersection. The radii of curb cuts shall not be less than 25 feet.
3.    Parking. The owner or user of any building site or lot shall provide for
adequate stabilized, dust-free parking for employees. This parking area shall
be located upon the owner's or user's lot or building site. Similar off-street
parking spaces for visitors shall also be provided upon said lot or site.
156.05 UTILITIES.
1.   Stormwater. The area of watersheds after development shall, remain the
same as pre development watersheds. Individual site grading plans will be
developed to assure proper control of stormwater. Such plans will be submitted
to the City for approval as part of the building plan.
2.    Easement. Easements may be used for the construction, installation,
maintenance, and location of underground electric or communication cables,
storm sewage or sanitation sewers, pipeline for supplying gas, water, or heat,
including mains and service pipes.
3.    The purchasers of lots and tracts within this development shall, at their
own cost and expense, keep and preserve that portion of the easement and right-
of-way within their property lines at all times in good condition of repair and
maintenance.
4.    Sewer Discharge. No occupant of the industrial park shall discharge a
volume of sanitary sewage greater than 5,000 gallons per day for each acre of
the property owned by such occupant without the expressed written consent of
the City. Sewage discharge of other than domestic waste, or of volumes in
excess of 5,000 gallons per acre per day, or of EPA or DNR controlled
substances may be made only with written permission of the City.
156.06 NUISANCES AND HAZARDS.
1.   No occupant of the property shall manufacture, process, produce, handle,
or store any product or item or engage in any activity which shall, at any
time, produce or possess the potential to produce a nuisance or hazard, beyond
the limits of the lot, to the public health, safety, or welfare. All users
shall operate in conformance with the limitations set forth in this Code of
Ordinances, State and federal laws and regulations, whichever is more
restrictive.
2.    General Restrictions. No noxious or offensive trade or activity shall be
carried on, nor shall anything be done thereon which may be or may become an
unreasonable annoyance or nuisance to the said Industrial Park hereby
restricted, or the surrounding area, whether said annoyance or nuisance be by
reason of unsightliness or the excessive vibration, glare and heat, noise, fire
hazards, or industrial wastes.
3.    In Addition. Auto wrecking, salvage yards, used materials yards, storage,
or baling of waste or scrap paper, rags, scrap metals, bottles, or junk, shall
not be permitted except as they may become necessary as an incident of a
permissible use of the premises.
156.07 SIGNS.
No billboards or advertising signs other than those identifying the name,
business, and product of the person or firm occupying the premises shall be
permitted. In addition to the above, one sign not exceeding 10x20 feet in area
advertising the premises for sale or rent, and accessory signs giving
directions for the delivery of goods, parking, etc., may be erected.
CHAPTER 157
REGULATION OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
 
157.01 Purpose and General Objectives 157.03 Restrictions on Location
157.02 Definitions
 
157.01 PURPOSE AND GENERAL OBJECTIVES.
In adopting this chapter, it is recognized that adult entertainment
establishments have certain objectionable side effects which render those adult
facilities incompatible with residential and family-oriented uses when the
adult establishments are located directly adjacent to such uses. This chapter
seeks to ensure that residential and family-oriented uses, and adult
entertainment establishments, will be located in separate and compatible
locations. It is a subject of legitimate concern for the City to use its zoning
powers to preserve the quality of life, preserve the City's neighborhoods, and
to effectively meet the increasing encroachments of urbanization upon the
quality of life within the City.
157.02 DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.    Adult bookstore means a retail store for the sale, rental, or exchange of
books, magazines, videocassettes, or DVDs, distinguished, or characterized by
primary emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to specific
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas as defined below. Adult
bookstores do not include businesses which sell, rent, or exchange such
videocassettes or DVDs as a sidelight or adjunct to sales or rental of
videocassettes or DVDs not relating to specific sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
2.    Adult entertainment facility means a building in which:
   A.   Entertainers routinely remove all or portions of their clothing as a
part of their performance, regardless of whether the business has a license to
sell alcohol; or
   B.   For the purpose of this section, an entertainer shall be a person who
either works as an employee of the business, is an agent of the business, or is
an independent contractor who has been hired or is allowed by the business to
perform for the apparent pleasure or gratification of the patron.
   C.   Examples of adult entertainment facilities would include, but not be
limited to, gentlemen's clubs, strip bars, full nudity juice bars, and nude
modeling clubs.
3.    Adult movie theater means an enclosed building used for presenting motion
picture films, DVDs, videocassettes, cable television, or any other visual
media, distinguished or characterized by emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to specific sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas as described below, for observation by persons therein. For purposes of
this section, the size and description of the viewing room shall not affect
characterization of the building as a theater; however, nothing in this section
shall be deemed to regulate the viewing habits of persons in the privacy of
their homes.
157.03 RESTRICTIONS ON LOCATION.
1.   Adult movie theaters, adult bookstores, and adult entertainment facilities
are prohibited in any B-1, R-1, R-2, R-3, and residential PUD zones.
2.    No adult movie theater, adult bookstore or adult entertainment facility
shall be located within 500 feet of any other adult movie theater, adult
bookstore, or adult entertainment facility.
CHAPTER 158
GROUND FLOOR DWELLINGS
 
158.01 Definitions 158.02 Ground Floor Dwellings Prohibited
 
158.01 DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.    Commercial building means a building utilized for retail sale of goods or
other business purposes, or arranged or intended for use for the retail sale of
goods or other business purposes, on the effective date of this chapter.
2.    Commercial zone means the following:
   A.   The east and west sides of Main Street from Quarry Street to Maple
Street; and
   B.   The north and south sides of Platt Street (U.S. Highway 64) from
Niagara Street to Olive Street.
3.    Dwelling means a building or portion of a building which is arranged,
occupied, or intended to be occupied for residential purposes.
4.    Ground floor dwelling means any dwelling located at street level or on
the first floor of a commercial building.
158.02 GROUND FLOOR DWELLINGS PROHIBITED.
It shall be unlawful to construct, rent, lease, or occupy a ground floor
dwelling within the commercial zone.
CHAPTER 160
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
 
160.01 Definitions                       160.07 General Floodplain (Overlay)
                                         District (GF)
160.02 Statutory Authority, Findings of  160.08 Shallow Flooding (Overlay)
Fact, and Purpose                        District (SF)
160.03 General Provisions                160.09 Appointment and Duties of Board
                                         of Adjustment
160.04 Administration                    160.10 Nonconforming Uses
160.05 Establishment of Zoning (Overlay) 160.11 Penalties for Violation
Districts
160.06 Floodway Fringe (Overlay)         160.12 Amendments
District (FF)
 
160.01 DEFINITIONS.
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
1.    Appurtenant structure means a structure which is on the same parcel of
the property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure.
2.    Base flood means the flood having one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. (Also commonly referred to as the 100-year flood. )
3.    Base Flood Elevation (BFE) means the elevation floodwaters would reach at
a particular site during the occurrence of a base flood event.
4.    Basement means any enclosed area of a building which has its floor or
lowest level below ground level (subgrade) on all sides. Also see lowest floor.
5.    Board of Appeals means the Board of Adjustment of the City.
6.    Development means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including (but not limited to) buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations, or storage
of equipment or materials. Development does not include minor projects or
routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities, as defined in this
section. It also does not include gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling or grading.
7.    Enclosed area below lowest floor means the floor of the lowest enclosed
area in a building when all the following criteria are met:
   A.   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic pressure
during flood events with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions of
Section
160.06(2)(D)(1) of this chapter; and
   B.   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, drywalled, etc.) and
used solely for low damage potential uses such as building access, parking, or
storage; and
   C.   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater, furnace,
electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at least one
foot above the base flood elevation; and
   D.   The enclosed area is not a basement as defined in this section.
8.    Existing construction means any structure for which the start of
construction commenced before the effective date of the first floodplain
management regulations adopted by the community.
9.    Existing factory-built home park or subdivision means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the
community.
10.    Expansion of existing factory-built home park or subdivision means the
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
11.    Factory-built home means any structure, designed for residential use
which is wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed, or assembled
in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation, on a
building site. For the purpose of this chapter, factory-built homes include
mobile homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes; and also include
recreational vehicles which are placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days and not fully licensed for and ready for highway use.
12.    Factory-built home park or subdivision means a parcel or contiguous
parcels of land divided into two or more factory-built home lots for sale or
lease.
13.    Five Hundred (500)-year flood means a flood, the magnitude of which has
a two-tenths percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year or
which, on average, will be equaled or exceeded at least once every 500 years.
14.    Flood means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or
rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
15.    Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) means the official map prepared as part
of (but published separately from) the Flood Insurance Study which delineates
both the flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the
community.
16.    Flood Insurance Study (FIS) means a report published by FEMA for a
community issued along with the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map(s). The
study contains such background data as the base flood discharge and water
surface elevations that were used to prepare the FIRM.
17.    Floodplain means any land area susceptible to being inundated by water
as a result of a flood.
18.    Floodplain management means an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use of
floodplains, including (but not limited to) emergency preparedness plans, flood
control works, floodproofing and floodplain management regulations.
19.    Floodproofing means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, including utility and
sanitary facilities, which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to such
structures.
20.    Floodway means the channel of a river or stream and those portions of
the floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to carry
and discharge flood waters or flood flows so that confinement of flood flows to
the floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water surface elevation of
the base flood by more than one foot.
21.    Floodway fringe means those portions of the Special Flood Hazard Area
outside the floodway.
22.    Highest adjacent grade means the highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
23.    Historic structure means any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places,
maintained by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily determined by the
Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing of
the National Register; or
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district; or
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary
of the Interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by
either:
      (1)    An approved State program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or
      (2)    Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
24.    Lowest floor means the floor of the lowest enclosed area in a building
including a basement except when the criteria listed in the definition of
enclosed area below lowest floor are met.
25.    Maximum damage potential uses means hospitals and like institutions;
buildings or building complexes containing documents, data, or instruments of
great public value; buildings or building complexes containing materials
dangerous to the public or fuel storage facilities; power installations needed
in emergency or other buildings or building complexes similar in nature or use.
26.    Minor projects means small development activities (except for filling,
grading, and excavating) valued at less than $500.00.
27.    New construction (new buildings, factory-built home parks) means those
structures or development for which the start of construction commenced on or
after the effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted
by the community.
28.    New factory-built home park or subdivision means a factory-built home
park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the
lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after
the effective date of the effective date of the first floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
29.    Recreational vehicle means a vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis; and
   B.   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection; and
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
30.    Routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities means repairs
necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that do not
trigger a building permit, provided they are not associated with a general
improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such repairs
include:
   A.   Normal maintenance of structures such as re-roofing, replacing roofing
tiles, and replacing siding.
   B.   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets,
counter tops, and similar finish work.
   C.   Basement sealing.
   D.   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes.
   E.   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating or air
conditioning systems, and repairing wells or septic systems.
31.    Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) means the land within a community
subject to the base flood. This land is identified on the community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map as Zone A, A1-30, AE, AH, AO, AR, or A99.
32.    Start of construction includes substantial improvement, and means the
date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement or permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as pouring of a slab or footings, the installation of pile, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a factory-built home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
33.    Structure means anything constructed or erected on the ground or
attached to the ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, factories,
sheds, cabins, factory-built homes, storage tanks, grain storage facilities, or
other similar uses.
34.    Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure
whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition
would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure before
the damage occurred. Volunteer labor and donated materials shall be included in
the estimated cost of repair. Substantial damage also means flood-related
damages sustained by a structure on two separate occasions during a 10-year
period for which the cost of repairs at the time of such flood event, on the
average, equals or exceeds 25 percent of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred. Volunteer labor and donated materials shall be
included in the estimated cost of repair.
35.    Substantial improvement means any improvement to a structure which
satisfies either of the following criteria:
   A.    Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure taking
place during a 10-year period, the cumulative cost of which, equals or exceeds
50 percent of the market value of the structure either:
      (1)    Before the start of construction of the first improvement of the
structure; or
      (2)    If the structure has been substantially damaged and is being
restored, before the damage occurred.
      The term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a
structure to correct existing violations of State or local health, sanitary, or
safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code
enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living
conditions. The term also does not include any alteration of a historic
structure, provided the alteration will not preclude the structure's
designation as a historic structure.
   B.   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a building by
25 percent or more. All additions constructed after the effective date of the
first floodplain management regulations adopted by the community shall be added
to any proposed addition in determining whether the total increase in original
floor space would exceed 25 percent.
36.    Variance means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of the
floodplain management regulations.
37.    Violation means the failure of a structure or other development to be
fully compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations.
160.02 STATUTORY AUTHORITY, FINDINGS OF FACT, AND PURPOSE.
1.    Statutory Authority. The Legislature of the State of Iowa has in Chapter
414, Code of Iowa, as amended, delegated the power to cities to enact zoning
regulations to secure safety from flood and to promote health and the general
welfare.
2.    Findings of Fact.
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic inundation
which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare of
the community.
   B.   These flood losses, hazards, and related adverse effects are caused by:
      (1)    The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood
damages which create hazardous conditions as a result of being inadequately
elevated or otherwise protected from flooding; and
      (2)    The cumulative effect of obstructions on the floodplain causing
increases in flood heights and velocities.
   C.   This chapter relies upon engineering methodology for analyzing flood
hazards which is consistent with the standards established by the Department of
Natural Resources.
3.    Statement of Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to protect and
preserve the rights, privileges, and property of the City and its residents and
to preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort,
convenience of its residents by minimizing those flood losses described in
Section
160.02(2)(A) with provisions designed to:
   A.   Reserve sufficient floodplain area for the conveyance of flood flows so
that flood heights and velocities will not be increased substantially.
   B.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities.
   C.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction or substantial improvement.
   D.   Protect individuals from buying lands which may not be suited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard.
   E.   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance
Program.
160.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
1.    Lands to Which Chapter Applies. The provisions of this chapter shall
apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the City shown on the Official
Floodplain Zoning Map as being within the boundaries of the Floodway Fringe,
General Floodplain, and Shallow Flooding (Overlay) Districts, as established in
Section
160.05.
2.    Establishment of Official Floodplain Zoning Map. The Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Jackson County and Incorporated Areas, City of Maquoketa, Panel
(s) 19097C0429E, 0433E, 0434E, 0437E, 0441E, 0442E, and 0443E, dated January
28, 2022, which were prepared as part of the Flood Insurance Study for Jackson
County are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be the Official
Floodplain Zoning Map. The Jackson County Flood Insurance Study is hereby
adopted by reference and is made a part of this chapter for the purpose of
administering floodplain management regulations.
3.    Rules for Interpretation of District Boundaries. The boundaries of the
zoning district areas shall be determined by scaling distances on the Official
Floodplain Zoning Map. When an interpretation is needed as to the exact
location of a boundary, the Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation. The Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
4.    Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be used, and no
structure shall be located, extended, converted, or structurally altered,
without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
5.    Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. It is not intended by this chapter
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent
with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
6.    Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the provisions
of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by State statutes.
7.    Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The standards required by this
chapter are considered reasonable for regulatory purposes. This chapter does
not imply that areas outside the designated Floodplain (Overlay) District areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the City, or any officer or employee thereof, for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
8.    Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
160.04 ADMINISTRATION.
1.    Appointment, Duties, and Responsibilities of Local Official.
   A.    The City Manager is hereby appointed to implement and administer the
provisions of this chapter and will herein be referred to as the Administrator.
   B.    Duties and responsibilities of the Administrator shall include (but
not necessarily be limited to) the following:
      (1)    Review all Floodplain Development Permit Applications to assure
that the provisions of this chapter will be satisfied.
      (2)    Review Floodplain Development Applications to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from federal, State, and local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Department of
Natural Resources for floodplain construction.
      (3)    Record and maintain a record of:
         a.    The elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum
1988) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures; or
         b.    The elevation to which new or substantially improved structures
have been floodproofed.
      (4)    Notify adjacent communities, counties, and the Department of
Natural Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a
watercourse and submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
      (5)    Keep a record of all permits, appeals, and such other transactions
and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this chapter.
      (6)    Submit to the Federal Insurance Administrator an annual report
concerning the community's participation, utilizing the annual report form
supplied by the Federal Insurance Administrator.
      (7)    Notify the Federal Insurance Administrator of any annexations or
modifications to the community's boundaries.
      (8)    Review subdivision proposals to ensure such proposals are
consistent with the purpose of this chapter and advise the Board of Appeals of
potential conflict.
      (9)   Maintain the accuracy of the community's Flood Insurance Rate Maps
when:
         a.   Development placed within the floodway results in any of the
following:
            i.   An increase in the base flood elevations; or
            ii.   Alteration to the floodway boundary.
         b.   Development placed in Zones A, AE, AH, and A1-30 that does not
include a designated floodway that will cause a rise of more than one foot in
the base elevation; or
         c.   Development relocates or alters the channel.
      Within six months of the completion of the development, the applicant
shall submit to FEMA all scientific and technical data necessary for a Letter
of Map Revision.
      (10)    Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with the standards
of this chapter.
      (11)    Forward all requests for variances to the Board of Appeals for
consideration. Ensure all requests include the information ordinarily submitted
with applications as well as any additional information deemed necessary to the
Board of Appeals.
   C.    Floodplain Development Permit.
      (1)    Permit Required. A Floodplain Development Permit issued by the
Administrator shall be secured prior to any floodplain development (any manmade
change to improved and unimproved real estate, including but not limited to
buildings or other structures, mining, filling, grading, paving, storage of
materials and equipment, excavation, or drilling operations), including the
placement of factory-built homes.
      (2)   Application for Permit. Application shall be made on forms
furnished by the Administrator and shall include the following:
         a.   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is to be made.
         b.   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done
(i.e., lot, block, track, street address, or similar description) that will
readily identify and locate the work to be done.
         c.   Location and dimensions of all structures and additions.
         d.   Indication of the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended.
         e.   Elevation of the base flood.
         f.   Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) of
the lowest floor (including basement) of structures or of the level to which a
structure is to be floodproofed.
         g.   For structures being improved or rebuilt, the estimated cost of
improvements and market value of the structure prior to the improvements.
         h.   Such other information as the Administrator deems reasonably
necessary (e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of this chapter.
      (3)   Action on Permit Application. The Administrator shall, within a
reasonable time, make a determination as to whether the proposed floodplain
development meets the applicable standards of this chapter and shall approve or
disapprove the application. For disapprovals, the applicant shall be informed,
in writing, of the specific reasons therefore. The Administrator shall not
issue permits for variances except as directed by the Board of Appeals.
      (4)   Construction and Use to Be as Provided in Application and Plans.
Floodplain Development Permits based on the basis of approved plans and
applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in
such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement, or
construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. The applicant shall be
required to submit certification by a professional engineer or land surveyor,
as appropriate, registered in the State, that the finished fill, structure
floor elevations, floodproofing, or other flood protection measures were
accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the
use or occupancy of any structure.
160.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING (OVERLAY) DISTRICTS.
The floodplain areas within the jurisdiction of this chapter are hereby divided
into the following districts:
1.    Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District (FF) those areas identified as Zone AE
on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map but excluding those areas identified as
Floodway; and
2.    General Floodplain (Overlay) District (GF) those areas identified as Zone
A on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map; and
3.    Shallow Flooding (Overlay) District (SF) those areas identified as Zone
AO or AH on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map.
The boundaries shall be as shown on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map. Within
these districts, all uses not allowed as permitted uses are prohibited unless a
variance to the terms of this chapter is granted after due consideration by the
Board of Appeals.
160.06 FLOODWAY FRINGE (OVERLAY) DISTRICT (FF).
1.    Permitted Uses.
   A.    All development within the Floodway Fringe District shall be permitted
to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance (or
underlying zoning district) and provided they meet applicable performance
standards of the Floodway Fringe District.
   B.    Any development which involves placement of structures, factory-built
homes, fill or other obstructions, storage of materials or equipment,
excavation, or alteration of a watercourse shall be reviewed by the Department
of Natural Resources to determine whether the land involved is either wholly or
partly within the floodway. The applicant shall be responsible for providing
the Department of Natural Resources with sufficient technical information to
make the determination.
2.    Performance Standards. All development must be consistent with the need
to minimize flood damage and meet the following applicable performance
standards. Until a regulatory floodway is designated, no development may
increase the base flood elevation more than one foot. The applicant will be
responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources with sufficient
technical information to make such determination.
   A.   All development shall:
      (1)   Be designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement.
      (2)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      (3)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant
to flood damage.
   B.   Residential Structures. All new or substantially improved residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated a minimum
of one foot above the base flood elevation. Construction shall be upon
compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no lower than one foot above the
base flood elevation and extend at such elevation at least 18 feet beyond the
limits of any structure erected thereon. Alternate methods of elevating (such
as piers or extended foundations) may be allowed subject to favorable
consideration by the Board of Adjustment,   where existing topography, street
grades, or other factors preclude elevating by fill. In such cases, the methods
used must be adequate to support the structure as well as withstand the various
forces and hazards associated with flooding. All new residential structures
located in areas that would become isolated due to flooding of surrounding
ground shall be provided with a means of access that will be passable by
wheeled vehicles during the base flood. However, this criterion shall not apply
where the Administrator determines there is sufficient flood warning time for
the protection of life and property. When estimating flood warning time,
consideration shall be given to the criteria listed in 567-75.2(3), Iowa
Administrative Code.
   C.   Nonresidential Structures. All new or substantially improved
nonresidential structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation, or together with
attendant utility and sanitary systems, be floodproofed to such a level. When
floodproofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in the State
shall certify that the floodproofing methods used are adequate to withstand the
flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact, uplift forces, and other factors
associated with the base flood; and that the structure, below the base flood
elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water. A record of the certification indicating the specific elevation (in
relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the Administrator.
   D.   All New and Substantially Improved Structures .
      (1)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (not including
basements) that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two openings, with positioning on at least two
walls, having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.  
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one-foot above
grade.
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   Such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles, building access,
and low damage potential storage. Where the distance between the floor and
ceiling of the fully enclosed area below the lowest floor is five feet or more,
the applicant shall be required to sign and record with the County Recorder a
Non-Conversion Agreement that ensures the lower enclosed area remains compliant
with the criteria outlined in this Section
160.06(2)(D)(1).  
      (2)   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
      (3)   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed with
electric meter, electrical service panel box, hot water heater, heating, air
conditioning, ventilation equipment (including ductwork), and other similar
machinery and equipment elevated (or, in the case of nonresidential structures,
optionally floodproofed to) a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation.
      (4)   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed with
plumbing, gas lines, water meters, gas meters, and other similar service
utilities either elevated (or in the case of nonresidential structures,
optionally floodproofed to) a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation or designed to be watertight and withstand inundation to such a
level.
   E.   Factory-Built Homes .
      (1)   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including
those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the structure
is a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including
those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be
anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Anchorage systems
may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to
ground anchors as required by the State Building Code.
   F.   Utility and Sanitary Systems .
      (1)   On-site wastewater disposal and water supply systems shall be
located or designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the
system during flooding.
      (2)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system as well
as the discharge of effluent into flood waters. Wastewater treatment facilities
(other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a level of flood protection
equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (3)   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system. Water
supply treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with
a level of protection equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood
elevation.
      (4)   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.
   G.   Storage of Equipment and Materials. Storage of materials and equipment
that are flammable, explosive, or injurious to human, animal, or plant life is
prohibited unless elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation. Other material and equipment must either be similarly elevated or:
      (1)    Not be subject to major flood damage and be anchored to prevent
movement due to flood waters; or
      (2)    Be readily removable from the area within the time available after
flood warning.
   H.   Flood Control Structures. Flood control structural works such as
levees, flood walls, etc. shall provide, at a minimum, protection from the base
flood with a minimum of three feet of design freeboard and shall provide for
adequate interior drainage. In addition, the Department of Natural Resources
shall approve structural flood control works.
   I.   Watercourse Alterations. Watercourse alterations or relocations must be
designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion. In addition, the Department of Natural Resources must
approve such alterations or relocations.
   J.   Subdivisions. Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks and
subdivisions) shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
Development associated with subdivision proposals (including the installation
of public utilities) shall meet the applicable performance standards of this
chapter. Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide all
lots with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during
the base flood. Proposals for subdivisions greater than five acres or 50 lots
(whichever is less) shall include base flood elevation data for those areas
located within the Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District.
   K.   Accessory Structures to Residential Uses.
      (1)   Any type of accessory structure which complies with the elevation
requirements of Section
160.06(2)(B) are exempt from the base flood elevation requirements where the
following criteria are satisfied:
         a.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential. Its size shall not exceed 600 square feet in size. Those portions of
the structure located less than one foot above the base flood elevation must be
constructed of flood-resistant materials.
         b.   The structure shall be used solely for low flood damage potential
purposes such as vehicle parking and limited storage. The structure shall not
be used for human habitation.
         c.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
         d.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement which may result in damage to other structures.
         e.   The structure's service facilities such as electrical and heating
equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed to at least one foot above the base
flood elevation.
         f.   The structure's walls shall include openings that satisfy the
provisions of Section
160.06(2)(D)(1).
      (2)   Exemption from the base flood elevation requirements for such a
structure may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance coverage of
the structure and its contents.
   L.   Recreational Vehicles.
      (1)   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the requirements of Section
160.06(2)(E) regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built homes when the
following criteria are satisfied.
         a.   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for less
than 180 consecutive days, and
         b.   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more than
180 consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must satisfy requirements
of Section
160.06(2)(E) regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built homes.
   M.   Pipeline Crossings. Pipeline river and stream crossings shall be buried
in the streambed and banks, or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent
rupture due to channel degradation and meandering.
   N.   Maximum Damage Potential Uses. All new or substantially improved
maximum damage potential uses shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one foot above the elevation of the 500-year flood, or
together with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be floodproofed to such a
level. When floodproofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in
the State shall certify that the floodproofing methods used are adequate to
withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact, uplift forces, and
other factors associated with the two-tenths percent annual chance flood; and
that the structure, below the two-tenths percent annual chance flood elevation
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water. A
record of the certification indicating the specific elevation (in relation
to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any structures are floodproofed
shall be maintained by the Administrator. Where a two-tenths percent chance
flood elevation data has not been provided in the Flood Insurance Study, the
Iowa Department of Natural Resources shall be contacted to compute such data.
The applicant will be responsible for providing the Department of Natural
Resources with sufficient technical information to make such determinations.
   O.   Special Floodway Provisions. Development determined to be within the
floodway must also meet the following applicable standards. The floodway is
that portion of the floodplain which must be protected from developmental
encroachment to allow the free flow of floodwaters. Where floodway data has
been provided in the Flood Insurance Study, such data shall be used to define
the floodway. Where no floodway data has been provided, the Department of
Natural Resources shall be contacted to provide a floodway delineation. The
applicant will be responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources
with sufficient technical information to make such determination.
      (1)    No development shall be permitted in the floodway that would
result in any increase in the base flood elevation. Consideration of the
effects of any development on flood levels shall be based upon the assumption
that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly situated
lands.
      (2)    All development within the floodway shall:
         a.    Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
         b.    Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
         c.    Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage.
      (3)    No development shall affect the capacity or conveyance of the
channel or floodway of any tributary to the main stream, drainage ditch, or any
other drainage facility or system.
      (4)    Structures, buildings, recreational vehicles, and sanitary and
utility systems, if permitted, shall meet the applicable performance standards
of the Floodway Fringe District and shall be constructed or aligned to present
the minimum possible resistance to flood flows.
      (5)    Structures, if permitted, shall have a low flood damage potential
and shall not be for human habitation.
      (6)    Storage of materials or equipment that are buoyant, flammable,
explosive, or injurious to human, animal, or plant life is prohibited. Storage
of other material may be allowed if readily removable from the floodway within
the time available after flood warning.
      (7)    Watercourse alterations or relocations (channel changes and
modifications) must be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within
the altered or relocated portion. In addition, such alterations or relocations
must be approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
      (8)    Any fill allowed in the floodway must be shown to have some
beneficial purpose and shall be limited to the minimum amount necessary.
      (9)    Pipeline river or stream crossings shall be buried in the
streambed and banks or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent rupture due
to channel degradation and meandering or due to the action of flood flows.
160.07 GENERAL FLOODPLAIN (OVERLAY) DISTRICT (GF).
1.    Permitted Uses.
   A.   All development within the General Floodplain District shall be
permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance (or
underlying zoning district) and provided they meet the applicable performance
standards of the General Floodplain District.
   B.   Any development which involves placement of structures, factory-built
homes, fill or other obstructions, storage of materials or equipment,
excavation or alteration of a watercourse shall be reviewed by the Department
of Natural Resources to determine:
      (1)    Whether the land involved is either wholly or partly within the
floodway or floodway fringe; and
      (2)    The base flood elevation.
   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the Department of Natural
Resources with sufficient technical information to make the determination.
   C.   Review by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources is not required for
the proposed construction of new or replacement bridges or culverts where:
      (1)   The bridge or culvert is located on a stream that drains less than
two square miles, and
      (2)   The bridge or culvert is not associated with a channel modification
that constitutes a channel change as specified in 567-71.2(2), Iowa
Administrative Code.
2.    Performance Standards.
   A.   All development, or portions thereof, to be located in the floodway as
determined by the Department of Natural Resources shall meet the applicable
provisions and standards of Section
160.06(2)(O) .
   B.   All development, or portions thereof, to be located in the floodway
fringe as determined by the Department of Natural Resources shall meet the
applicable provisions and standards of the Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District
(Section
160.06) .
160.08 SHALLOW FLOODING (OVERLAY) DISTRICT (SF).
1.    Permitted Uses. All development within the Shallow Flooding District
shall be permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other
ordinance (or underlying zoning district) and provided they meet the applicable
performance standards of the Shallow Flooding District.
2.    Performance Standards. The performance standards for the Shallow Flooding
District shall be the same as the performance standards for the Floodway Fringe
District with the following exceptions:
   A.   In shallow flooding areas designated as an AO Zone on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map, the minimum floodproofing/flood protection elevation shall
be equal to the number of feet as specified on the FIRM (or a minimum of two
feet if no number is specified) above the highest natural grade adjacent to the
structure.
   B.   In shallow flooding areas designated as an AH Zone on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map, the minimum floodproofing/flood protection elevation shall
be equal to the elevation as specified on the FIRM.
   C.   In shallow flooding areas designated as either an AH or AO Zone on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map, drainage paths are required around structures on
slopes to adequately guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
160.09 APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES OF BOARD OF APPEALS.
1.   Appointment and Duties of Board of Appeals. A Board of Appeals is hereby
established which shall hear and decide:
   A.   Appeals; and
   B.   Requests for variances to the provisions of this chapter, and shall
take any other action which is required of the Board.
2.   Appeals. Where it is alleged that there is any error in any order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative official in
the enforcement of this chapter, the aggrieved party may appeal such action.
The notice of appeal shall be filed with the Board and with the official from
whom the appeal is taken and shall set forth the specific reason for the
appeal. The official from whom the appeal is taken shall transmit to the Board
all the documents constituting the record upon which the action appealed from
was taken.
3.   Variance. The Board may authorize upon request in specific cases such
variances from the terms of this chapter that will not be contrary to the
public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary hardship. Variances
granted must meet the following applicable standards.
   A.   Variances shall only be granted upon:
      (1)    A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)    A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      (3)    A determination that the granting of the variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local codes or ordinances.
   B.   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   C.   In cases where the variance involves a lower level of flood protection
for structures than what is ordinarily required by this chapter, the applicant
shall be notified in writing over the signature of the Administrator that:
      (1)    The issuance of a variance will result in increased premium rates
for flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25.00 for $100.00 of insurance
coverage; and
      (2)    Such construction increases risks to life and property.
   D.   All variances granted shall have the concurrence or approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
4.    Hearings and Decisions of the Board.
   A.   Hearings. Upon the filing with the Board of an appeal or a request for
a variance, the Board shall hold a public hearing. The Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the hearing and give public notice thereof, as well as due
notice to parties in interest. At the hearing, any party may appear in person
or by agent or attorney and present written or oral evidence. The Board may
require the appellant or applicant to provide such information as is reasonably
deemed necessary and may request the technical assistance or evaluation of a
professional engineer or other expert person or agency, including the
Department of Natural Resources.
   B.   Decisions. The Board shall arrive at a decision on an appeal or
variance within a reasonable time. In passing upon an appeal, the Board may, so
long as such action is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter,
reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination appealed from, and it shall make its decision, in
writing, setting forth the findings of fact and the reasons for its decision.
In granting a variance, the Board shall consider such factors as contained in
this section and all other relevant sections of this chapter and may prescribe
such conditions as contained in Section
160.09(4)(B)(2) .
      (1)   Factors Upon Which the Decision of the Board Shall Be Based. In
passing upon applications for variances, the Board shall consider all relevant
factors specified in other sections of this chapter and:
         a.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments.
         b.   The danger that materials may be swept on to other land or
downstream to the injury of others.
         c.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability
of these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary conditions.
         d.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
         e.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the City.
         f.   The requirements of the facility for a floodplain location.
         g.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use.
         h.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development
and development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
         i.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for the area.
         j.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
         k.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood water expected at the site.
         l.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer,
gas, electrical, and water systems), facilities, streets, and bridges.
         m.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this
chapter.
      (2)   Conditions Attached to Variances. Upon consideration of the factors
listed above, the Board may attach such conditions to the granting of variances
as it deems necessary to further the purpose of this chapter. Such conditions
may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
         a.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
         b.   Limitation of periods of use and operation.
         c.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
         d.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes,
levees, and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the
Department of Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative
to achieving the purpose of this chapter.
         e.   Floodproofing measures shall be designed consistent with the
flood protection elevation for the particular area, flood velocities, duration,
rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, and other factors associated
with the regulatory flood. The Board shall require that the applicant submit a
plan or document certified by a registered professional engineer that the
floodproofing measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection
elevation and associated flood factors for the particular area.
5.    Appeals to the Court. Any person or persons, jointly or severally,
aggrieved by any decision of the Board may present to a court of record a
petition, duly verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole
or in part, specifying the grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be
presented to the court within 30 days after the filing of the decision in the
office of the Board.
160.10 NONCONFORMING USES.
1.    A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful before
the passage or amendment of the ordinance codified in this chapter, but which
is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, may be continued
subject to the following conditions:
   A.   If such use is discontinued for six consecutive months, any future use
of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
   B.   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   C.    If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50
percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred, unless
it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
State or local health, sanitary, building, or safety codes or regulations, or
the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation.
2.    Except as provided in Section
160.10(1)(B), any use which has been permitted as a variance shall be
considered a conforming use.
160.11 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
the requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variances) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any
person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $500.00. Each
day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing
herein contained shall prevent the City from taking such other lawful action as
is necessary to prevent or remedy violation.
160.12 AMENDMENTS.
The regulations and standards set forth in this chapter may from time to time
be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed. No amendment, supplement,
change, or modification shall be undertaken without prior approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
CHAPTER 165
ZONING REGULATIONS
165.01 Short Title                      165.26 Two-Family and Multiple-Family
                                        Dwellings
                                        165.27 Groups of Commercial or
165.02 Definitions                      Industrial Buildings, Open Space
                                        Required
                                        165.28 Groups of Residential,
165.03 Districts                        Institutional, or Hotel Buildings, Open
                                        Spaces Required
165.04 District Map                     165.29 Courts, Minimum Dimension
                                        Required
165.05 Zoning Map Changes               165.30 Side Yards for Residential Uses
                                        Above Other Uses
165.06 Annexation                       165.31 Double Frontage, Required Front
                                        Yard on Both Streets
165.07 Vacated Public Ways              165.32 Yard Requirements for Corner
                                        Lots
165.08 Boundary Rules                   165.33 Side Yard Width
165.09 Exceptions                       165.34 Front Yards, Adjustment in
                                        Relation to Existing Buildings
165.10 Agricultural District (A-1)      165.35 Bed and Breakfast Facilities
165.11 Residential District (R-1)       165.36 Decks and Porches
165.12 General Residential District (R- 165.37 Handicap Ramps
2)
165.13 General Residential District (R- 165.38 Off-Street Parking Regulations
3)
165.14 Manufactured Home Park District  165.39 Special Use Permits
(MH-1)
165.15 General Business District (B-1)  165.40 Fences
165.16 Central Business District (B-2)  165.41 Sign Regulations
165.17 Light Industrial District (I-1)  165.42 Non-Conformance Uses
165.18 Middle Industrial District (I-2) 165.43 Enforcement, Applications, and
                                        Permits
165.19 Heavy Industrial District (I-3)  165.44 Changes and Amendments
165.20 Public Buildings and             165.45 Special Use Permits for Wind
Institutions, Height Of                 Turbines
165.21 Height of Chimneys, Steeples,    165.46 Special Use Permits for
and Like Structures                     Qualified Storage Buildings in
                                        Residential Districts
165.22 Accessory Buildings, Area, and   165.47 Home Occupations
Location
165.23 Yard Unobstructed
165.24 Basement Not Occupied
165.25 Projecting Structures in Rear
Yard
 
165.01 SHORT TITLE.
This Title shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the Zoning Code
or Zoning Regulations.
165.02 DEFINITIONS.
The following words and phrases whenever used in the ordinances of the City,
shall be construed as defined in this section unless, from the context, a
different meaning is intended or unless different meaning is specifically
defined and more particularly directed to the use of such words or phrases:
1.    Words beginning with A.
   A.    Accessory buildings means a subordinate building which is incidental
to and customary in connection with the principal building or use and which is
located on the same lot with such principal building or use.
   B.    Accessory use means a subordinate use which is incidental to and
customary in connection with the principal building or use and which is located
on the same lot with such principal building or use.
2.    Words beginning with B.
   A.    Basement means a story having part but not more than one-half of its
height below grade. A basement is counted as a story for the purpose of height
regulation if subdivided and used for dwelling purposes other than by a janitor
employed on the premises.
   B.    Bed and breakfast home means any dwelling used for accommodation of
overnight guests for a fee or for the service of food and beverages to
overnight guests for a fee.
   C.    Blade sign see projecting sign.
   D.    Boarding house see lodging house.
   E.    Building means any structure having a roof supported by columns or
walls built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of persons, animals,
chattel, or property of any kind, but not including any vehicle, trailer, with
or without wheels, nor any movable device, such as furniture, machinery, or
equipment. When any portion of a building is completely separated from any
other portion thereof by a division wall without openings or by a fire wall,
then each such portion shall be deemed to be a separate building.
   F.    Building, height of means the vertical distance from the grade to the
highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or to the deck line of a mansard
roof, or to the mean height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip, and
gambrel roof.
   G.    Building Official means the individual designated by the City Manager
to administer this Zoning Code and who is responsible for the enforcement of
the regulations imposed by this Code .
3.    Words beginning with C.
   A.    Cellar means a story having more than one-half of its height below
grade.
   B.    Clinic means an establishment where patients are not lodged overnight,
but are admitted for examination and treatment by a group of physicians or
dentists practicing medicine together.
   C.    Core central business district mean the four block area with the
perimeter defined by Quarry, Olive, Pleasant and Second Streets.
4.    Words beginning with D.
   A.    Deck means a structure with no roof and no walls.
   B.    Directional sign means any on-premise sign that includes information
assisting in the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic such as enter, exit,
one way, no-parking, etc.
   C.    Domesticated animals means animals which are raised, tended, groomed,
maintained, boarded, or kept for the purpose of commercial gain or for hobby
purposes with the exception of pets.
   D.    Dwelling means any building or portion thereof which is used
exclusively for residential purposes. A dwelling shall be on a permanent
foundation with no wheels, axles, or hitches, and shall be connected to the
City sewer and water system. A dwelling shall be at least 20 feet in width and
have a minimum floor area of 800 square feet. The owner of any building
classified as a dwelling shall surrender the title, if one exists, to the
County Assessor and request that the dwelling be listed as real estate.
   E.    Dwelling, Single - Family means a building designed to be occupied
exclusively by one family.
   F.    Dwelling, Multiple means a building designed for or occupied
exclusively by more than two families.
   G.    Dwelling, Two - Family means a building designed to be occupied
exclusively by two families.
   H.   intended to be occupied as separate living quarters by a single -
family as defined herein.
5.    Words beginning with E.
   A.    Enclosed porch means a structure with a roof and with walls.
6.    Words beginning with F.
   A.    Factory-built home means any home which is, wholly or in substantial
part, made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in manufacturing facilities for
installation or assembly and installation, on a building site. Factory-built
homes include mobile homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes.
   B.    Family means one or more persons related by blood, marriage, or
adoption occupying a dwelling unit as an individual housekeeping organization.
A family may include not more than two persons not related by blood, marriage,
or adoption.
   C.    Farm means an area exceeding 10 acres used for the purpose of growing
agricultural products or raising domesticated animals and accessory uses.
Farming does not include livestock operations which can be described as
feedlots; confinement areas; sale barns; or holding, transfer, or sale
stations.
   D.    Feather flag sign means a teardrop banner sign used as a temporary
sign.
   E.    Filling stations means any building or premises used for the retail
sale of motor vehicle fuels or accessory oils, fluids, etc. Accessory repair
services are included uses provided the premises are not used for storage of
wrecked or junked motor vehicles for periods exceeding 30 days.
   F.    Floor area means the total number of square feet of floor space within
the exterior walls of a building, not including space in cellars or basements;
however, if the cellar or basement is used for business or commercial purposes,
it shall be counted as floor area in computing off - street parking
requirements.
   G.    Frontage means the measure of a parcel that lies in direct contact
with a public street.
7.    Words beginning with G.
   A.    Garage, private means a detached accessory building, or portion of the
main building, housing the automobiles of the occupants of the premises.
   B.    Garage, public means any building or premises used as a business to
repair, sell or trade motor vehicles, except no wrecked or junked motor
vehicles may be stored outside for more than 30 days.
   C.    Grade means the average level of the finished surface of the ground
adjacent to the exterior walls of the building, except when any wall
approximately parallels and is not more than five feet from a street line, then
the elevation of the street at the center of the wall adjoining the street
shall be grade.
8.    Words beginning with H.
   A.    Home occupation means any business, profession, occupation, or trade
conducted for gain or support within a residential building or an accessory
structure thereto which is incidental and secondary to the use of such a
building for dwelling purposes and which does not change the essential
residential character of such building.
   B.    Hotel means a building in which lodging is provided and offered to the
public for compensation, and which is open to transient guests, in
contradistinction to a boarding house or lodging house as herein defined.
9.    Words beginning with I.
   A.    Institution means a building occupied by a nonprofit corporation or a
nonprofit establishment for public use.
10.    Words beginning with J.
11.    Words beginning with K.
12.    Words beginning with L.
   A.    Lodging house means a building or place where lodging and boarding is
provided, or which is equipped regularly to provide lodging and boarding by
pre-arrangement for definite periods, for compensation, for three or more, but
not exceeding 12 individuals, not open to transient guests, in
contradistinction to hotels open to transients.
   B.    Lot means a parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use
permitted in this Zoning Code, including one main building together with its
accessory buildings, open spaces and parking spaces required by this Code, and
having its principal frontage upon a street.
   C.    Lot, corner shall mean a lot abutting upon two or more streets at
their intersection.
   D.    Lot, depth of shall mean the horizontal distance between the front and
rear lot lines.
   E.    Lot, double frontage means a lot having frontage on two
nonintersecting streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
   F.    Lot of record means lot or parcel of land, the deed of which has been
recorded in the office of the County Recorder prior to the adoption of this
Zoning Code.
13.    Words beginning with M.
   A.    Manufactured home lot means a lot within a manufactured home park for
the placement of a single factory-built home and the exclusive use of its
occupants.
   B.    Manufactured home means a factory-built home under authority of 42
U.S.C. Section 5403, that is required by federal law to display a seal from the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and was constructed
on or after June 15, 1976.
   C.    Manufactured home park means a site, lot, field, or tract of land upon
which three or more factory-built homes are placed on developed spaces and
operated as a for-profit enterprise with water, sewer or septic, and electrical
services available.
   D.    Manufacturing means the process of taking any number of raw or
finished materials and producing a finished product not intended for retail
sale on the premises.
   E.    Mobile home means any vehicle without motive power used or so
manufactured or constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon
the public streets and highways and so designed, constructed, or reconstructed
as will permit the vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or
more persons; but shall also include any such vehicle with motive power not
registered as a motor vehicle in the State. Mobile homes were constructed
before June 15, 1976.
   F.    Monument sign means any sign supported by a foundation, uprights, or
braces placed in the ground. Such a sign is not supported by any building. This
type of sign is in contact with the ground and is not elevated by a pole or
poles.
   G.    Motel, motor court, motor lodge, or tourist court means any building
or group of buildings containing guest rooms or dwelling units, some, or all of
which have a separate entrance leading directly from the outside of the
building with garage or parking space conveniently located on the lot, and
designed, used, or intended wholly or in part for the accommodation of
automobile transients.
14.    Words beginning with N.
   A.    Nonconforming use shall mean any building or land lawfully occupied
for a use at the time of passage of this Zoning Code or amendment thereto which
does not conform after the passage of this Zoning Code or amendment thereto
with the use regulation of the district in which it is situated.
   B.    Nursing home means a home for the aged or infirm, in which three or
more persons not of the immediate family are received, kept, or provided with
food and shelter or care, for compensation; but not including hospitals,
clinics, or similar institutions.
15.    Words beginning with O.
   A.    Obsolete sign means any sign that advertises a business, lessee,
owner, product, service, or activity that is no longer located on the premises
where the sign is displayed.
16.    Words beginning with P.
   A.    Parking space means an area sufficient in size to store an automobile
together with a driveway connecting the space to the street. For all uses
except in a residential district, the term parking space shall include
sufficient area to permit maneuvering into and out of the space. The
maneuvering area or parking area may not include public walkways.
   B.    Patio or terrace means a paved area or platform no more than 12 inches
above the ground.
   C.    Permanent sign means a sign that does not advertise a single event
such as a yard sale, an electoral campaign, a real estate sale, or a special
event such as a church or civic festival. A permanent sign is made of materials
intended for long-term use. Permanent signs include, but are not limited to:
wall signs, monument, free-standing signs, pole signs, projecting signs, and
roof signs.
   D.    Pets means any animal maintained or capable of being kept in the home
for noncommercial, personal enjoyment. For the purposes of this Zoning Code,
pets shall not include domesticated animals normally thought of as farm or
ranch animals including cows, pigs, horses, chickens, ducks, turkeys, geese,
other fowl, goats, or sheep; nor shall it include any animal normally thought
of as wild.
   E.    Pole sign means any sign that is mounted on a freestanding pole,
poles, or other support so that the bottom edge of the sign face(s) is above
grade. A billboard sign is a type of pole sign.
   F.    Porch means a structure with a roof and no walls.
   G.    Premises means a lot, together with all buildings and structures
thereon.
   H.    Projecting sign means a sign for commercial structures, which is
suspended from a mounting attached directly to the building wall, hangs
perpendicular to the building wall, and possibly extends into a public right-
of-way.
17.    Words beginning with Q.
18.    Words beginning with R.
   A.    Required rear yard means that portion of the rear yard, extended
forward from the rear lot line, which comprises the minimum setback distance
for the zone in which it is located.
   B.    Roof sign means a sign erected or constructed wholly upon or over the
roof of a building and supported on the roof structure.
19.    Words beginning with S.
   A.    Satellite devices means any device designed to receive, transmit, or
translate signals from television, other satellites, or other broadcasting
devices for home and personal use. For the purposes of this Zoning Code,
residential use of satellite devices shall be considered accessory buildings
and subject to all regulations that apply to accessory buildings. Area taken up
by satellite devices shall be computed by squaring the largest width.
Commercial use of satellite devices are special uses.
   B.    Setback means the distance required to obtain minimum front, side, or
rear yard space requirements as measured from the property line as required by
this Zoning Code.
   C.    Sign means an identification, description, illustration, or device
which is affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building,
structure, or land, and which directs attention to a product, place, activity,
person, institution, or business.
   D.    Story means that portion of a building, other than a cellar, included
between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it or,
if there be no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling
next above it.
   E.    Story, half means a space under a sloping roof which has the line of
intersection of roof decking and wall face not more than three feet above the
top floor level, and in which space not more than 60 percent of the floor area
is finished off for use. A half story may be used for occupancy only in
conjunction with and by the occupancy of the floor immediately below.
   F.    Street means a public way which affords the principal means of access
to abutting property.
   G.    Structure means anything constructed or erected, the use of which
requires permanent location on the ground; or attached to something having a
permanent location on the ground and including, but not limiting, the
generality of the foregoing, advertising signs, billboards, backstops for
tennis courts, and pergolas.
   H.    Structural alteration means any change except those required by law or
this Code, that would prolong the life of the supporting members of a building
or structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders, not including
openings in bearing walls as permitted by other regulations.
20.    Words beginning with T.
   A.    Temporary sign means a sign that is not permanently affixed or
anchored to a structure of the ground for long-term use.
21.    Words beginning with U.
22.    Words beginning with V.
23.    Words beginning with W.
   A.    Wall sign means any sign attached parallel to a wall, painted on the
wall surface or, or erected and kept within the confines of an outside wall of
any building or structure, which is supported by such wall or building. Wall
signs do not include signs or lettering on doors or windows. Wall signs do not
include minor directional signs and similar.
   B.    Wind turbine means any structure that is supported, wholly or in part,
by the ground or another structure that is designed to harness, use, or store
energy from wind power.
   C.    Wind turbine height means the vertical distance measured from the base
of the structure to the top of the tallest blade when the blade is parallel and
extending over the base structure.
24.    Words beginning with X.
25.    Words beginning with Y.
   A.    Yard means an open space on the same lot with a building unoccupied
and unobstructed by any portion of the structure from the ground upward, except
as otherwise provided in this Zoning Code.
   B.    Yard, front means that portion of the full width of the lot that
exists from the street right-of-way to the closest structure. Corner lots have
two front yards, and must meet minimum set back requirements for each. Double
frontage lots shall have the street exposure closest to the main entrance of
the structure as the front yard.
   C.    Yard, rear means the yard extending the full width of the lot between
a main building and the rear lot line.
   D.    Yard, side means a yard between the main building and the side line of
the lot, and extending from the front yard line to the rear yard line.
26.    Words beginning with Z.
165.03 DISTRICTS.
In order to classify, regulate, and restrict the locations of trades,
industries, and the location of buildings designed for specified uses; to
regulate and limit the height and use of the lot areas; and to regulate and
determine the areas of yards, courts, and other open spaces surrounding such
buildings, the City is hereby divided into districts which shall be known as:
1.    A-1 Agricultural District.
2.    R-1 Residential District.
3.    R-2 General Residential District.
4.    R-3 General Residential District.
5.    B-1 General Business District.
6.    B-2 Central Business District.
7.    MH-1 Mobile Home Park District.
8.    I-1 Light Industrial District.
9.    I-2 Middle Industrial District.
10.    I-3 Heavy Industrial District.
165.04 DISTRICT MAP.
The boundaries of these districts are shown upon the District Map which
accompanies and is made a part of this Zoning Code. Said map and all the
information shown thereon shall have the same force and effect as if all was
fully set forth or described herein. The original of this map is properly
attested and is on file with the Clerk.
165.05 ZONING MAP CHANGES.
EDITOR'S NOTE
The Official Zoning map located in City Hall and amendments are in full
force and effect. The following ordinances have been adopted amending the
Official Zoning Map of the City and have not been codified herein, but are
specifically saved from repeal and are in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE ADOPTED            ORDINANCE ADOPTED
1138      August 7, 2017
1154      June 17, 2019
1161      December 16, 2019
1199      September 16, 2022
1215      March 4, 2024
1222      September 3, 2024
1223      September 3, 2024
1224      September 3, 2024
165.06 ANNEXATION.
All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the City, shall be classified
in the A-1 Agricultural District until, within a reasonable time after
annexation, the annexed territory shall be appropriately classified by
ordinance in accordance with Section
165.44.
165.07 VACATED PUBLIC WAYS.
Whenever any street or other public way is vacated by official action of the
City, the zoning district adjoining each side of such street or public way
shall be automatically extended to the center of such vacation and all area
included in the vacation shall then and henceforth be subject to all
appropriate regulations of the extended districts.
165.08 BOUNDARY RULES.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts as shown on the District Map, the following rules shall apply:
1.    Where a boundary is given a position within a street, alley, or
nonnavigable stream, it shall be deemed to be in the center of the street,
alley, or stream, and if the actual location of such street, alley, or stream
varies slightly from the location as shown on the District Map, then the actual
location shall control.
2.    Where a boundary line is shown as being located a specific distance from
a street line or other physical feature, this distance shall control.
3.    Where a boundary line is shown adjoining or coincident with a railroad,
it shall be deemed to be in the center of the railroad right-of-way and
distances measured from a railroad shall be measured from the center of the
designated main line track.
4.    Where the district boundaries follow or approximately follow platted lot
lines or other property lines, the district boundaries shall be construed to
follow the platted lot lines or other property lines.
5.    In unsubdivided property, unless otherwise indicated, the district
boundary line shall be determined by the use of the scale contained on such
map.
165.09 EXCEPTIONS.
1.   No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged,
reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered nor shall any building or land be
used except for the purpose permitted in the district in which the building or
land is located.
2.    No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged,
reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in conformity with the
height, yard, area per family, parking, and other regulations prescribed herein
for the district in which the building is located.
3.    The minimum yards and other open spaces including lot area per family
required by this Zoning Code shall be provided for each and every building or
structure hereafter erected, and such minimum yards, open spaces, and lot areas
for each and every building or structure whether existing at the time of
passage of this Zoning Code or hereafter erected shall not be encroached upon
or be considered as a yard or open space requirement for any other building or
structure.
4.    Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be located
on a lot abutting a public street that has been dedicated to and accepted by
the City, and in no case shall there be more than one main building on one lot
unless otherwise provided in this Zoning Code.
165.10 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (A-1).
1.    District Regulations. The regulations set forth in this section or set
forth elsewhere in this Zoning Code, when referred to in this section, are the
regulations in the Agricultural District (A-1).
2.    Use Regulations. The Agricultural District is intended for use by
professional or amateur agriculturists who raise crops or livestock for profit
or hobby purposes. A building or premises shall be used for the following
purposes:
   A.   Residences of owner, operator, or hired help limited to a maximum of
three dwelling units.
   B.   Barns, sheds, or outbuildings for the storage of crops. Crops stored on
the premises shall be limited to crops grown by the owner or tenant on the
premises.
   C.   Barns, sheds, or outbuildings for the storage or repair of the owner's
or operator's farm equipment or machinery.
   D.   Commercial radio tower or satellite devices.
   E.   Landing field or strip for aircraft.
   F.   Riding stable when located on not less than 10 acres.
3.    Parking Regulations. Refer to Section
165.38.
4.    Height And Area Regulations.
   A.   Front Yards. Front yard setbacks for Agricultural District shall be 30
feet or two feet of lineal setback for every one foot of building height,
whichever is greater.
      (1)   Front yard regulations for dwellings in an industrial district are
the same as those in the R-1 Residential district.
   B.   Side Yards. Side yard setbacks for all industrial districts shall be
zero feet.
      (1)   Side yard regulations for dwellings in an industrial district are
the same as those in the R-1 Residential district.
   C.   Rear Yard. Rear yard setbacks for all industrial districts shall be 30
feet.
      (1)   Rear yard regulations for dwellings in an industrial district are
the same as those in the R-1 Residential district.
   D.   The front and rear yard regulations for commercial or non-industrial
use buildings in the Industrial Districts shall be the same as those setbacks
in the B-1 General Business District. No rear yards for commercial buildings
are required, except on the rear of a lot abutting an R-1 and R-2 Residential
District, in which event a rear yard of not less than 30 feet shall be
provided.
   E.   If a building contains both a business and industrial use in the
Industrial Districts, the industrial setback requirements shall prevail.
   F.   Existing business and commercial uses in existence in the Industrial
Districts at the time of the adoption of this Zoning Code shall be allowed to
continue and expand in their present location and shall not be considered as
non-conforming uses for the purposes of the enforcement of this Zoning Code.
165.11 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-1).
1.   Residential District (R-1). The regulations set forth in this section or
set forth elsewhere in this Zoning Code, when referred to in this section, are
the regulations in the Residential District (R-1).
2.    Use Regulations:
   A.   A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings.
      (2)   Two-family dwellings.
      (3)   Churches.
      (4)   Public buildings, parks, playgrounds, community center, and
recreational vehicle campsites in City parks as designated by resolution of the
Council.
      (5)   Public schools, elementary and high, and private education
institutions having a curriculum the same as ordinarily given in public
schools, and having no rooms regularly used for housing and sleeping rooms.
      (6)   Home occupations.
      (7)   Golf courses, except miniature courses or practice driving tees
operated for commercial purposes.
      (8)   Temporary buildings, the uses of which are incidental to the
construction operations or sale of lots during development being conducted on
the same or adjoining tract or subdivision and which shall be removed upon
completion or abandonment of such construction, or upon the expiration of a
period of two years from the time of erection of such temporary buildings,
whichever is sooner.
      (9)   Cemetery or mausoleum on sites not less than 20 acres.
      (10)   Signs. Refer to Section
165.41.
      (11)   Accessory buildings and uses including, but not limited to,
accessory private garages, swimming pools, home barbecue grills, accessory
storage, and accessory off-street parking and loading space.
3.    Parking Regulations. Off-street parking spaces shall be provided in
accordance with the requirements for specific uses set forth in
Chapter 69 and Section
165.38.
4.    Height Regulations. No building shall exceed two and one-half stories nor
shall it exceed 35 feet except as provided in Section
165.20.
5.    Area Regulations.
   A.   Yard Regulations. Subject to the modifications set out in
Chapter 165, the regulations are as follows:
      (1)   Front Yard. There shall be a front yard of not less than 30 feet.
      (2)   Side Yard. There shall be a side yard on each side of a lot of not
less than seven feet.
      (3)   Rear Yard. There shall be a rear yard of not less than 30 feet.
      (4)   Front Porch Reconstruction. If a residence was constructed prior to
January 1, 1964, with a front porch that does not comply with the front yard or
side yard setback requirements, then the front porch may be rebuilt provided
that the overall square footage of the porch is not increased and the existing
nonconforming front and side yard setbacks are not decreased.
   B.   Minimum Lot Area.
      (1)   A lot occupied by a single-family dwelling shall contain not less
than 7,200 square feet and shall not be less than 60 feet in width.
      (2)   A lot occupied by a two-family dwelling shall contain not less than
9,000 square feet and shall not be less than 75 feet in width.
      (3)   A lot having an area or width less than herein required and which
was recorded under separate ownership from adjoining lots at the effective date
of this Zoning Code may be occupied by a single-family dwelling or by any other
permitted nonresidential use.
165.12 GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-2).
1.    District Regulations. The regulations set forth in this section or set
forth elsewhere in this Zoning Code, when referred to in this section, are the
regulations of the General Residential District (R-2).
2.    Use Regulations. A building or premises shall be used only for the
following purposes:
   A.   Multiple - family dwellings.
   B.   Board and lodging houses.
   C.   Private clubs and lodges.
   D.   Hospitals, clinics, or institutions not primarily for the mentally ill
or those with contagious diseases, provided that less than 40 percent of the
total land area is occupied by buildings and that all the required yards are
increased by one foot for each one foot of building height in excess of height
limits as specified in this Zoning Code.
   E.   Hospitals, nursing homes, clinics, and educational, philanthropic, or
religious institutions, except for those for criminals or for the mentally ill.
   F.   Nursery school.
   G.   Any allowable use in the R-1 Residential District.
3.    Parking Regulations. Off-street parking spaces shall be provided in
accordance with the requirements for specific uses set out in
Chapter 69 and Section
165.38.
4.    Height Regulations. No building shall exceed two and one-half stories nor
shall it exceed 35 feet except as provided in Section
165.20.
5.    Area Regulations.
   A.   Yards. Subject to the modifications set out in
Chapter 165, the regulations are as follows:
      (1)   Front Yard. There shall be a front yard of not less than 30 feet.
      (2)   Side Yard. There shall be a side yard on each side of a lot of not
less than seven feet.
      (3)   Rear Yard. There shall be a rear yard of not less than 30 feet.
      (4)   Front Porch Reconstruction. If a residence was constructed prior to
January 1, 1964, with a front porch that does not comply with the front yard or
side yard setback requirements, then the front porch may be rebuilt provided
that the overall square footage of the porch is not increased and the existing
nonconforming front and side yard setbacks are not decreased.
   B.   Minimum Lot Area.
      (1)   A lot occupied by a single-family dwelling or a boarding or lodging
house shall contain not less than 6,000 square feet and shall be not less than
50 feet in width.
      (2)   A lot occupied by a two-family dwelling or a multiple-family
dwelling shall contain not less than 3,000 square feet for each dwelling unit
and shall be not less than 50 feet in width.
      (3)   A lot occupied by three or more dwelling units shall contain not
less than 1,500 square feet for each dwelling unit and shall be not less than
60 feet in width.
      (4)   A lot having an area or width less than herein required and which
was recorded under separate ownership from adjoining lots at the effective date
of this Zoning Code may be occupied by a single-family dwelling or by any other
permitted non-residential use.
165.13 GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-3).
1.   District Regulations. The regulations set forth in this section or set
forth elsewhere in this Zoning Code, when referred to in this section, are the
regulations of the General Residential District (R-3).
2.    Use Regulations. A building or premises shall be used only for the
following purposes:
   A.   Any allowable use in the R-1 Residential District.
3.    Parking Regulations. Off-street parking spaces shall be provided in
accordance with the requirements for specific uses set out in Section
165.38.
4.    Height Regulations. No building shall exceed two and one-half stories nor
shall it exceed 35 feet except as provided in Section
165.20.
5.    Area Regulations.
   A.   Yard Regulations Subject to the modifications set out in
Chapter 165, the regulations are as follows:
      (1)   Front Yard. There shall be a front yard of not less than 30 feet.
      (2)   Side Yard. There shall be a side yard on each side of a lot of not
less than five feet.
      (3)   Rear Yard. There shall be a rear yard of not less than 30 feet.
   B.   Minimum Lot Area .
      (1)   A lot occupied by a single-family dwelling shall contain not less
than 7,200 square feet and shall not be less than 60 feet in width.
      (2)   A lot occupied by a two-family dwelling shall contain not less than
9,000 square feet and shall not be less than 75 feet in width.
      (3)   A lot having an area or width less than herein required and which
was recorded under separate ownership from adjoining lots at the effective date
of this Zoning Code may be occupied by a single-family dwelling or by any other
permitted nonresidential use.
165.14 MANUFACTURED HOME PARK DISTRICT (MH-1).
1.    District Regulations. The regulations set forth in this section or set
forth elsewhere in this Zoning Code, when referred to in this section, are the
regulations in the Manufactured Home Park District (MH-1). See also
Chapter 147.
2.    Use Regulations. A building or premises within the Manufactured Home Park
District shall be used only for the following purposes:
   A.   Any use, including accessory buildings and uses, allowed in the R-
1 Residential District.
   B.   Manufactured home parks in accordance with the provisions of this
section and applicable State and federal laws and regulations.
   C.   No more than two permanent site-built dwellings shall be permitted in
any single manufactured home park.
   D.   Recreational facilities within a manufactured home park for exclusive
use of the occupants of the manufactured home park.
3.    Parking Regulations. Parking regulations relative to allowable uses
within the Manufactured Home Park District situated outside a manufactured home
park shall be as otherwise set forth in this Zoning Code. The following
regulations shall govern parking within a manufactured home park:
   A.   Two paved parking shall be provided on each manufactured home lot.
   B.   In addition, paved guest parking areas shall be provided throughout a
manufactured home park containing parking spaces at the rate of one parking
space per factory-built home within a manufactured home park, provided such
parking areas not be required when public streets or private drives serving the
interior of the manufactured home park are constructed at least 28 feet in
width.
   C.   Parking shall not be allowed on private drives less than 28 feet in
width.
   D.   Parking shall be allowed on one side only of private drives which are
at least 28 feet in width.
   E.   Parking shall be allowed on both sides of private drives which are at
least 32 feet in width.
   F.   Vehicles such as boats, boat trailers, travel trailers, pickup coaches,
truck tractors, trucks over one - ton pickup size, recreational vehicles, and
vehicles of a similar nature shall not be parked on a manufactured home lot,
guest parking area, or on a private drive or public street right-of-way within
a manufactured home park. Parking of the above-referenced vehicles shall be
confined to required storage lots.
4.    Street and Drive Requirements. Interior access may be provided by public
streets or private drives. Public streets shall be built to City standards.
When private drives are used, the following criteria shall apply:
   A.   Private drives shall be constructed of Portland cement concrete or
asphaltic concrete and shall be designed with adequate strength to accommodate
design loadings and shall include curb and gutter.
   B.   When off-street guest parking is not provided, private drives shall be
at least 24 feet wide.
   C.   When off-street guest parking is provided below, private drives shall
be at least 28 feet wide.
   D.   Cul-de-sac private drives shall not exceed 750 feet in length and shall
be provided with an outside roadway diameter of not less than 76 feet.
   E.   Intersecting private drives shall have centerlines as nearly straight
as possible. Jogs with centerline effects of more than five feet shall not be
permitted.
   F.   Intersections of private drives at angles less than 60 degrees shall
not be permitted.
   G.   If an intersection occurs at an angle other than a right angle, it
shall be rounded with a curve at a radius acceptable to the City Engineer.
   H.   Grades:
      (1)   Maximum - 10 percent.
      (2)   Minimum - five-tenths of a percent.
   I.   All private drives entering a public street must meet at a right angle
and be perpendicular to the public street for a minimum distance of 50 feet
without intersection of private drives. The intersecting private drive right-
of-way with the public street right-of-way shall be rounded with radii of not
less than 30 feet.
   J.   On any corner lot on which a front or side yard is required, no wall,
fence, sign, or other structure or no plant growth of a type which would
interfere with traffic visibility across the corner shall be permitted or
maintained higher than three feet above the curb level, within 15 feet of the
intersection of the edges of the private drives.
   K.   At least one access point onto a public street shall be provided for
each 100 manufactured home lots; street or drive connections to adjacent
properties may be required when deemed appropriate by the Zoning Administrator.
5.    Area Regulations. The following standards and criteria shall apply to all
manufactured home parks:
   A.   Screening. Permanent screening consisting of a masonry wall, wood
fence, landscaping material, or combination thereof shall be required around
the perimeter of a manufactured home park, except where the site is adjacent to
a public street right-of-way. The required screening shall have an opacity of
at least 80 percent year-round meaning if landscaping is used, the 80 percent
opacity shall be achieved within all four seasons. The required screening shall
be maintained in good order and not allowed to exist in a state of disrepair or
death. Fences or walls shall be at least eight feet in height but no taller
than 12 feet in height and shall be durable in nature or treated to prevent
deterioration. In the event a masonry wall or wood fence is used, landscaping
shall be placed between the wall or fence and the property line to form an
ornamental screen. Failure to maintain the required screening shall be
considered a violation of this section.
   B.   Yard Regulations .
      (1)   All manufactured home lots shall be at least 25 feet from all
perimeter property lines of the Manufactured Home Park District. The setback is
intended to be a landscaped open area. Parking, streets, drives, accessory
vehicles, and accessory uses shall not be allowed within the 25-foot setback
area.
      (2)   Each factory-built home within a manufactured home park shall be
set back at least 20 feet from any public street right-of-way or private drive
within the Manufactured Home Park District. Parking may be allowed within the
20-foot setback.
      (3)   Each manufactured home shall be set back at least 10 feet from all
manufactured home lot lines which are not abutting a public street right-of-way
or private drive. This setback shall not apply to parking areas, carports, and
other accessory buildings which are located on manufactured home lots which do
not border the perimeter of the Manufactured Home Park District.
      (4)   A private outdoor living area, such as a patio or deck, of at least
40 square feet shall be provided on each manufactured home lot adjoining the
factory-built home.
      (5)   Minimum Lot Area.
         a.    Each manufactured home lot shall contain at least 4,050 square
feet.
         b.    Each manufactured home lot shall be at least 45 feet wide at its
most narrow point.
6.    Miscellaneous Standards for Manufactured Home Parks.
   A.   Park Map. A map of the layout of the manufactured home park, of a scale
not greater than 1:50, showing the location of individual manufactured home
lots by number, shall be displayed on the park office building, or on the
identification sign at the entrance to the manufactured home park.
   B.   Sewer. Each manufactured home lot shall be provided with a sewer outlet
not less than four inches in diameter, connected to the main sewer system.
   C.   Lighting. Lighting shall be provided for all private streets, walkways,
buildings, and other facilities subject to nighttime use in accordance with
City requirements for residential streets and walkways.
   D.   Storage Lots. Each manufactured home park shall provide one or more
storage lots, in addition to required parking areas, for boats, boat trailers,
travel trailers, pickup coaches, truck tractors, trucks over one-ton pickup
size, recreational vehicles, and vehicles of a similar nature. The minimum area
required for storage lots shall be 200 square feet for each seven manufactured
home lots.
   E.   Sheds; Storage Buildings. Sheds or storage buildings may be located on
the same manufactured home lot as the factory-built structure it is intended to
serve. Such facilities shall be constructed of suitable weather resistant
materials.
   F.   Attached Enclosed Structures. Any enclosed structure attached to a
manufactured home shall be made out of compatible or similar exterior materials
and in conformance with City building codes. No structure shall be constructed
within 10 feet from the boundary line of any property which borders the
perimeter of the Manufactured Home Park District.
   G.   Landscaping. All yards and other open spaces not otherwise paved or
occupied by structures shall be landscaped and maintained.
   H.   Stormwater Management. A stormwater management system shall be designed
to minimize the possibility of soil erosion and flood damage on site and
downstream of a manufactured home park.
   I.   Fire Hydrants. No manufactured home, mobile home, site-built dwelling,
or other dwelling structure within a manufactured home park shall be situated
more than 650 feet from a fire hydrant .
7.    Existing Manufactured Home Lots; Nonconforming Uses.
   A.   Nonconforming Use. The lawful use of a manufactured home lot existing
at the time of the adoption of this subchapter and creation of the Manufactured
Home Park District may be continued even though such use does not conform with
the provisions of this section.
   B.   Restoration . In the event two-thirds of factory-built homes on
nonconforming manufactured home lots are damaged or destroyed by fire,
explosion, act of God, or the public enemy, the subject manufactured home lots
shall be restored in conformity with the regulations set forth in this section
provided discontinuance of the nonconformity is necessary for the safety of
life or property.
   C.   Lapse in Use . In the event the nonconforming use of a manufactured
home lot is discontinued for a period of at least one year, the use of the same
shall thereafter conform with the regulations set forth in this section.
   D.   Expansion by Incorporation of Additional Manufactured Home Lots . in
the event a nonconforming manufactured home park is expanded to include
additional manufactured home lots, such additional manufactured home lots shall
conform with the regulations set forth in this section.
8.    Development Plan Submission and Review. The following process shall apply
to all new manufactured home parks and to all nonconforming manufactured home
parks required to conform in whole or in part to the regulations set forth in
this section:
   A.   Concept Review. The first step in the approval process is a concept
review to discuss the applicant's plans. The concept review is an informal
discussion and review between the Zoning Administrator and the owner to discuss
land use and development concepts, applicable regulations, and other concerns
that may be raised.
   B.   Development Plan . The applicant shall thereafter prepare and submit a
development plan to the Planning and Zoning Commission including the following:
      (1)   Name of the manufactured home park.
      (2)   A north arrow, scale, and the size of the site to the nearest acre.
      (3)   Name(s) of the record owner(s) of the land.
      (4)   Existing zoning of the tract and the zoning of all adjacent
property.
      (5)   Existing topography of the site with contour intervals no greater
than five feet.
      (6)   Approximate location, size, and arrangement of proposed
manufactured home lots and other buildings on the site.
      (7)   Total number of manufactured home lots proposed and the density of
development.
      (8)   Proposed location of parking areas, an estimated parking ratio, and
the general arrangement of parking spaces and private drives within the
manufactured home park.
      (9)   Approximate location of any existing or proposed public streets
rights-of-way.
      (10)   Approximate location of existing sanitary sewers and water mains
within or adjacent to the site.
      (11)   Approximate location of fire hydrants within or adjacent to the
site for the purposes of demonstrating compliance with the provisions of
Section
165.14(9).
      (12)   Natural and modified drainage ways, proposed culverts, and
detention areas, if applicable, on the site.
      (13)   Existing waterways and/or wooded areas, and the approximate
location of the 100-year floodplain, if applicable.
      (14)   General description of proposed screening and landscaped areas on
the site.
      (15)   Applicable setbacks.
      (16)   Stages of development, if applicable.
      (17)   Legal description of the property.
      (18)   Signatures blocks for Planning and Zoning Commission and Council
approvals.
      (19)   Names and addresses of all property owners within 185 feet of the
manufactured home park.
      (20)   A fee to cover advertising costs.
   C.   Action on Development Plan.
      (1)   Following a duly noticed public hearing, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall forward the development plan to Council with its
recommendation.
      (2)   Council, following a duly noticed public hearing, may approve,
approve conditionally, or deny the development plan.
      (3)   Following Council approval of the development plan, the applicant
may apply for and obtain applicable building permits for development of the
manufactured home park as outlined in the plan.
      (4)   Minor adjustments to an approved development plan may be authorized
by the Zoning Administrator or designee.
      (5)   Changes, other than those considered minor by the Zoning
Administrator or the designee, shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for its review. If the change is determined to be in substantial
compliance with the development plan, the Planning and Zoning Commission may
approve a revision to the development plan. If the change is a substantial
deviation from the intent of the approved development plan, a revised
development plan shall be required and shall be reviewed as a new proposal.
   D.   Withdrawal of Approval for Development Plans. From and after two years
following the date of approval of a development plan by Council, the Council
may, by a majority vote, withdraw approval of such development plan, provided
development has not commenced.
9.    Building Permits. No building permit shall be issued by any governing
official for the placement of any factory-built home or improvement to the land
or any manufactured home lot within a manufactured home park, until all
applicable requirements of this section have been fully satisfied.
10.    Inspection of Manufactured Home Parks. The Zoning Administrator, or
designee, shall have the power to enter at reasonable times upon any private or
public property for the purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions
relating to the enforcement of this section. It shall be the duty of the
manufactured home park management to give the Zoning Administrator, or
designee, free access to all manufactured home lots for the purpose of
inspection.
11.    Enforcement. The Zoning Administrator, or the designee, shall have the
authority to enforce this Zoning Code. A violation of any provision of this
section shall constitute a municipal infraction by the owner of the
manufactured home park and/or the owner of a factory-built home within the
manufactured home park as provided for in
Chapter 3.
12.    Conflicting Provisions. In the event of a conflict between the
provisions of this section and provisions elsewhere in the Zoning Code the
provisions of this section shall control.
165.15 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (B-1).
1.   District Regulations. The regulations set forth in this section or set
forth elsewhere in the Zoning Code, when referred to in this section, are the
regulations in the General Business District (B-1).
2.    Use Regulations. Buildings and premises shall be used for any commercial
establishment in the Zoning Code whose primary purpose is retail trade, but
restricted in that any activities that could be labeled as manufacturing are
limited to those actions necessary to prepare the final product for retail
sale. Examples of permitted uses are:
   A.   General retail sales such as hardware, clothing, gifts, bakery items,
drug stores, notions, restaurants, taverns, appliances, radio, TV shops,
florists, and theaters.
   B.   General office uses such as banks, savings and loans, public offices,
attorneys, doctors, dentists, insurance, real estate, investment counseling,
and business offices.
   C.   General service businesses such as barber shops, beauty shops,
tailoring, gas stations parking lots, photo labs, photograph studios,
newspaper, media offices, and accountants.
   D.   Apartments, as accessory use to structure.
   E.   Car dealerships, agricultural machinery dealerships, other motorized or
RV vehicle dealerships, mobile home sales, car washes, auto body repair shops,
automotive repair shops, skating rinks, bowling, dance halls, and recreational
vehicle campsites.
   F.   Truck stops, drive-in restaurants, dry cleaners, motels, laboratories,
animal clinics, wholesale merchandise distributorship, veterinary clinics,
private, for profit schools, and private clubs.
   G.   Commercial greenhouse or nursery.
   H.   Wholesale merchandizing or storage warehouse. (Not including grain
storage.)
   I.   General service and repair establishments including dyeing or cleaning
works or laundry, plumbing and heating, printing, painting, upholstering, or
tinsmithing.
   J.   Compounding of cosmetics, toiletries, drugs, and pharmaceutical
products.
   K.   Outdoor advertising in accordance with Section
165.41 .
   L.   Accessory buildings.
   M.   Broadcasting station.
   N.   Any allowable use in R-2 Residential Districts.
3.    Parking Regulations. Off-street parking spaces shall be provided in
accordance with the requirements for specific uses set out in Section
165.38.
4.    Height Regulations. No building shall exceed six stories nor shall it
exceed 75 feet except as provided in Section
165.20.
5.    Area Regulations.
   A.   Yards.
      (1)   The front and rear yard regulations for dwellings are the same as
those in the R-1 Residential District. No front or rear yards for commercial
buildings are required except on the rear of a lot abutting an R-1 or R-
2 District, in which event a rear yard of not less than 30 feet shall be
provided.
      (2)   The side yard regulations for dwellings are the same as those in
the R-1 Residential District. No side yards for commercial buildings are
required except on the side of a lot abutting an R-1, R-2, or R-3 District, in
which event a side yard of not less than 30 feet shall be provided.
165.16 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (B-2).
1.    District Regulations. The regulations set forth in this section, or set
elsewhere in this Zoning Code, when referred to in this section, are the
regulations in the Central Business District.
2.    Use Regulations. Any allowable use in B-1 General Business District.
3.    Parking Regulations.
   A.   Off-street parking spaces shall be provided in accordance with the
requirements for specific uses set out in Section
165.38 and
Chapter 69. The off-street parking requirements shall not apply to existing
commercial buildings in the Central Business District.
4.    Height Regulations. No building shall exceed six stories, nor shall it
exceed 75 feet except as provided in Section
165.20.
5.    Area Regulations.
   A.   No front or rear yards for commercial buildings are required except on
the rear of a lot abutting an R-1 or R-2 District, in which event a rear yard
of not less than two feet shall be provided.
   B.   The front, rear and side yard regulations for dwellings are the same as
those in the R- 1 Residential District .
165.17 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I-1).
1.   District Regulations. The regulations set forth in this section or set
forth elsewhere in this Zoning Code, when referred to in this section, are the
regulations in the Light Industrial District (I-1).
2.    Use Regulations. The Light Industrial District is intended to provide a
low density buffer zone between heavy industrial and other uses. The types of
uses are intended to be warehousing, distributory, and light manufacturing. The
processing of raw materials intended for shipment to other locations for
further manufacturing is not allowed. Examples of permitted uses are:
   A.   Manufacture of dental, optical, drafting, musical, electronic,
recreation, or computer components or products.
   B.   Manufacture or storage of food products provided that no unprocessed
foods are used. Processing of flour would be permitted, processing of wheat
into flour would not. Manufacturing of dairy products from processed milk would
be allowed, processing of milk would not.
   C.   Manufacture or assembly of hardware, ornamental iron, sheet metal,
appliances, tools enameled products, provided no melting, smelting, or foundry
work is involved.
   D.   Manufacture or assembly of rugs, mattresses, and clothing.
   E.   Manufacture or assembly of boxes, crates, furniture, baskets, veneers,
or other wood products.
   F.   Any similar manufacturing or assembly process, provided that the work
does not involve any potential for the creation of or dispersement of
environmental pollutants.
   G.   Accessory buildings and uses.
   H.   Any allowable use in B-1 Business District.
3.    Parking Regulations. Refer to
Chapter 69 and Section
165.38.
4.    Height and Area Regulations.
   A.   Front Yards. Front yard setbacks for Light Industrial District shall be
30 feet or two feet of lineal setback for every one foot of building height,
whichever is greater.
      (1)   Front yard regulations for dwellings in a Light Industrial District
are the same as those in the R-1 Residential District.
   B.   Side Yards. Side yard setbacks for all industrial districts shall be
zero feet.
      (1)   Side yard regulations for dwellings in a Light Industrial District
are the same as those in the R-1 Residential District.
   C.   Rear Yard. Rear yard setbacks for all industrial districts shall be 30
feet.
      (1)   Rear yard regulations for dwellings in a Light Industrial District
are the same as those in the R-1 Residential District.
   D.   The front and rear yard regulations for commercial or non-industrial
use buildings in the Light Industrial District shall be the same as those
setbacks in the B-1 General Business District. No rear yards for commercial
buildings are required, except on the rear of a lot abutting an R-1 and R-
2 Residential District, in which event a rear yard of not less than 30 feet
shall be provided.
   E.   If a building contains both a business and industrial use in the Light
Industrial District, the industrial setback requirements shall prevail.
   F.   Existing business and commercial uses in existence in the Light
Industrial Districts at the time of the adoption of this Zoning Code shall be
allowed to continue and expand in their present location and shall not be
considered as non-conforming uses for the purposes of the enforcement of this
Zoning Code .
165.18 MIDDLE INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I-2).
1.    District Regulations. The regulations set forth in this section or set
forth elsewhere in this Zoning Code, when referred to in this section, are the
regulations in the Middle Industrial District (I-2).
2.    Use Regulations. The Middle Industrial District is intended for those
purposes which may be deemed as having potential for regulated air, water,
ground, or noise pollution. Examples are:
   A.   Chemicals, petroleum, coal, and allied products .
   B.   Acid and derivatives.
   C.   Acetylene.
   D.   Ammonia.
   E.   Carbide.
   F.   Caustic soda.
   G.   Cellulose and cellulose storage.
   H.   Chlorine.
   I.   Coke oven products (including fuel gas) and coke oven products storage.
   J.   Creosote.
   K.   Distillation, manufacture, or refining of coal, tar, asphalt, wood, and
bones.
   L.   Processing of chemicals from one state to another or alteration of the
chemical composition of a substance.
   M.   Explosives (including ammunition and fireworks) and explosives storage.
   N.   Fertilizer (organic).
   O.   Fish oils and meal.
   P.   Glue, gelatin (animal).
   Q.   Hydrogen and oxygen.
   R.   Lamp black, carbon black, and bone black.
   S.   Nitrating of cotton or other materials.
   T.   Petroleum, gasoline and lubricating oil refining, and wholesale
storage.
   U.   Plastic materials and synthetic resins.
   V.   Potash.
   W.   Pyroxylin.
   X.   Turpentine and resin.
   Y.   Wells, gas, and oil.
   Z.   Clay, stone, and glass products.
   AA.   Brick, firebrick, refractories, and clay products (coal fired).
   BB.   Cement, lime, gypsum, or plaster of Paris.
   CC.   Minerals and earths; quarrying, extracting, grinding, crushing, and
processing.
   DD.   Metals and metal products.
   EE.   Aluminum powder and paint manufacture.
   FF.   Blast furnace, cupolas.
   GG.   Blooming mill.
   HH.   Metal and metal ores, reduction, refining, smelting, and alloying.
   II.   Scrap metal reduction or smelting.
   JJ.   Steel works and rolling mill (ferrous).
   KK.   Wood and paper products.
   LL.   Match manufacture.
   MM.   Wood pulp and fiber, reduction, and processing.
   NN.   Any allowable use in the Light Industrial District.
3.    Parking Regulations. Refer to
Chapter 69 and Section
165.38.
4.    Height and Area Regulations.
   A.   Front Yards. Front yard setbacks for Middle Industrial District shall
be 30 feet or two feet of lineal setback for every one foot of building height,
whichever is greater.
      (1)   Front yard regulations for dwellings in a Middle Industrial
District are the same as those in the R-1 Residential district.
   B.   Side Yards. Side yard setbacks for all Middle Industrial Districts
shall be zero feet.
      (1)   Side yard regulations for dwellings in a Middle Industrial District
are the same as those in the R-1 Residential District.
   C.   Rear Yard. Rear yard setbacks for all Middle Industrial District shall
be 30 feet.
      (1)   Rear yard regulations for dwellings in a Middle Industrial District
are the same as those in the R-1 Residential District.
   D.   The front and rear yard regulations for commercial/ non-industrial use
buildings in the Middle Industrial District shall be the same as those setbacks
in the B-1 General Business District. No rear yards for commercial buildings
are required, except on the rear of a lot abutting an R-1 and R-2 Residential
District, in which event a rear yard of not less than 30 feet shall be
provided.
   E.   If a building contains both a business and industrial use in the Middle
Industrial District, the industrial setback requirements shall prevail.
   F.   Existing business and commercial uses in existence in the Middle
Industrial District at the time of the adoption of this Zoning Code shall be
allowed to continue and expand in their present location and shall not be
considered as non-conforming uses for the purposes of the enforcement of this
Zoning Code.
5.    Area Regulations. Refer to
Chapter 165.
165.19 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I-3).
1.   District Regulations. The regulations set forth in this section or set
forth elsewhere in this Zoning Code, when referred to in this section, are the
regulations in the Heavy Industrial District (I-3).
2.    Use Regulations. The Heavy Industrial District is intended for those
purposes which may be deemed as having potential for regulated air, water,
ground, or noise pollution. Examples of uses are:
   A.   Manufacture of explosives (including ammunition and fireworks) and
explosives storage .
   B.   Rendering and storage of dead animals, garbage, or waste products .
   C.   Food and beverages .
   D.   Fat rendering .
   E.   Fish curing, packing, and storage .
   F.   Slaughter of animals .
   G.   Starch manufacture .
   H.   Unclassified industries and uses .
   I.   Hair, hides, and raw fur, curing, tanning, dressing, dyeing, and
storage .
   J.   Stockyards .
   K.   Junkyards and auto wrecking yards .
   L.   Processing or storage of radioactive materials done in accordance with
applicable federal and State regulations.
   M.   Buildings, structures, or enclosures for storage or processing of grain
or agricultural products not grown by the owner or tenant on the premises.
   N.   Any allowable use in the Middle Industrial District.
3.    Parking Regulations. Refer to
Chapter 69 and Section
165.38.
4.    Height and Area Regulations.
   A.   Front Yards. Front yard setbacks for Heavy Industrial District shall be
30 feet or two feet of lineal setback for every one foot of building height,
whichever is greater.
      (1)   Front yard regulations for dwellings in a Heavy Industrial District
are the same as those in the R-1 Residential District.
   B.   Side Yards. Side yard setbacks for all Heavy Industrial Districts shall
be zero feet.
      (1)   Side yard regulations for dwellings in a Heavy Industrial District
are the same as those in the R-1 Residential District.
   C.   Rear Yard. Rear yard setbacks for all Heavy Industrial District shall
be 30 feet.
      (1)   Rear yard regulations for dwellings in a Heavy Industrial District
are the same as those in the R-1 Residential District.
   D.   The front and rear yard regulations for commercial/ non-industrial use
buildings in the Heavy Industrial District shall be the same as those setbacks
in the B-1 General Business District. No rear yards for commercial buildings
are required, except on the rear of a lot abutting an R-1 and R-2 Residential
District, in which event a rear yard of not less than 30 feet shall be
provided.
   E.   If a building contains both a business and industrial use in the Heavy
Industrial District, the industrial setback requirements shall prevail.
   F.   Existing business and commercial uses in existence in the Heavy
Industrial Districts at the time of the adoption of this Zoning Code shall be
allowed to continue and expand in their present location and shall not be
considered as non-conforming uses for the purposes of the enforcement of this
Zoning Code.
5.    Area Regulations. Refer to
Chapter 165.
165.20 PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND INSTITUTIONS, HEIGHT OF.
Public, semipublic, or public service buildings, hospitals, institutions, or
schools, when permitted in a district, may be erected to a height not exceeding
60 feet if the building is set back from each yard line at least one foot for
each two feet of additional building height above the height limit otherwise
provided in the district in which the building is located.
165.21 HEIGHT OF CHIMNEYS, STEEPLES, AND LIKE STRUCTURES.
Chimneys, church steeples, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers,
ornamental towers, spires, wireless towers, grain elevators, or necessary
mechanical appurtenances, are exempt from the height regulations as contained
herein.
165.22 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, AREA, AND LOCATION.
1.    Location. Accessory structures shall not exceed in total 30 percent of
square footage area in rear yard, but no accessory building shall be closer
than 10 feet to the main building or closer than two feet to any lot line
(overhang or soffit included).
2.    Distance From the Main Building. If the accessory building is located
closer than 10 feet to the main building, then the accessory building shall be
regarded as part of the main building for purposes of determining side and rear
yard areas.
3.    Entrance From Alley. If the accessory building is a garage which is
entered from an alley and is not located closer than 10 feet to the main
building, then there shall be a rear yard of not less than 10 feet.
4.    Height Restriction. No accessory building in a residential district shall
be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or structurally altered to
exceed 17 feet in height at the highest point from the grade level.
5.    Permit. A building permit must be issued prior to construction of any
accessory building or structure.
6.    Number of Accessory Buildings. No one accessory building will have a
square footage of more than 1200 square feet. Private garages must meet the
minimum principal structure front yard and side yard setback requirements.
7.    Materials. Accessory buildings and structures and garages shall be
constructed of materials comparable to the principal structure.
8.    Accessory Buildings, Use For Dwelling Purposes. No accessory building
shall be constructed upon a lot until the construction of the main building has
been actually commenced, and no accessory building shall be used for dwelling
purposes.
165.23 YARD UNOBSTRUCTED.
Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed by any
structure, except for the projection of sills, belt course, and cornices which
do not exceed 12 inches. Ornamental structures, hedges, play structures (with
the exception of playhouses), mass plantings (non-trees), and handrails which
do not obstruct vision from or within the public right-of-way are permitted.
165.24 BASEMENT NOT OCCUPIED.
No basement or cellar shall be occupied for residential purposes until the
remainder of the building has been substantially completed.
165.25 PROJECTING STRUCTURES IN REAR YARD.
Open lattice enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways, balconies
opening upon fire towers, and the ordinary projections of chimneys and flues
into the rear yard are permitted.
165.26 TWO-FAMILY AND MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
Two-family and multiple-family dwellings, where permitted, may be constructed
upon the same lot, or upon separate lots to provide for separate or divided
ownership, as follows:
1.   Where constructed upon the same lot, two-family dwellings or multiple-
family dwelling shall be considered as one building occupying one lot for
purposes of determining applicable yard and area requirements.
2.   Two-family dwellings and multiple-family dwellings may be constructed upon
separate lots to provide for separate or divided ownership of laterally
connected dwelling units, subject to the following requirements:
   A.   Each laterally connected dwelling unit shall have separate access and
separate utility services including without limitation gas, water, sewer, and
electricity.
   B.   Whether initially constructed on separate lots or subsequently
subdivided for purposes of establishing separate or divided ownership, each lot
upon which a laterally connected two-family dwelling or laterally connected
multiple-family dwelling is situated shall satisfy all applicable yard and lot
area requirements, provided that side yard setbacks shall not apply where
laterally connected dwelling units meet. Further, for purposes of determining
compliance with applicable yard and lot area requirements, laterally connected
dwellings on separate lots shall be considered as one building occupying one
lot.
   C.   Each lot upon which a laterally connected two-family dwelling or
multiple-family dwelling is situated shall be subject to restrictive covenants
of record with the Jackson County Recorder providing for the joint and uniform
maintenance and repair of the common wall(s) and all exterior portions of the
attached dwellings including but not limited to the roofs, siding, trim, doors,
driveways, sidewalks, and gutters and downspouts, so as to ensure a consistent
and uniform appearance. Copies of such restrictive covenants, as proposed,
shall be submitted together with the owner’s preliminary plat and/or final plat
for review pursuant to applicable subdivision regulations.
(Section 165.26 – Ord. 1243 – Dec. 24 Supp.)
165.27 GROUPS OF COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS, OPEN SPACE REQUIRED.
Where a lot or tract is used for farming, a commercial, or industrial purpose,
more than one main building may be located upon the lot or tract, but only when
such buildings conform to all open space and setback requirements around the
lot for the district in which the lot or tract is located.
165.28 GROUPS OF RESIDENTIAL, INSTITUTIONAL, OR HOTEL BUILDINGS, OPEN SPACES
REQUIRED.
In the event that a lot is to be occupied by a group of two or more related
buildings to be used for multiple dwelling, institutional, motel or hotel
purposes, there may be more than one main building on the lot; provided
however, that the open space between buildings that are parallel shall have a
minimum dimension of 20 feet for one-story buildings, 30 feet for two-story
buildings and 40 feet for three or four-story buildings.
165.29 COURTS, MINIMUM DIMENSION REQUIRED.
Where an open space is more than 50 percent surrounded by a building, the
minimum width of the open space shall be at least 20 feet for one story
buildings, 30 feet for two-story buildings, and 40 feet for three or four-story
buildings.
165.30 SIDE YARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL USES ABOVE OTHER USES.
No side yards are required where dwelling units are erected above commercial
and industrial structures.
165.31 DOUBLE FRONTAGE, REQUIRED FRONT YARD ON BOTH STREETS.
Where lots have double frontage, the required front yard shall be provided on
both streets.
165.32 YARD REQUIREMENTS FOR CORNER LOTS.
The required side yard street side of a corner lot shall be the same as the
required front yard on such street, except that the building width shall not be
reduced to less than 32 feet and no accessory building shall project beyond the
required front yard on either street.
165.33 SIDE YARD WIDTH.
Whenever a lot at the effective date of this Zoning Code has a width of less
than 60 feet, the side yards may be reduced to a width of not less than 10
percent of the width of the lot, but in no instance shall it be less than five
feet.
165.34 FRONT YARDS, ADJUSTMENT IN RELATION TO EXISTING BUILDINGS.
1.    The front yards heretofore established shall be adjusted in the following
cases:
   A.   Where 40 percent or more of the frontage on the same side of a street
between two intersecting streets is developed with two or more buildings that
have, with a variation of five feet or less, a front yard greater in depth than
herein required, new buildings or additions to existing buildings shall not be
erected closer to the street than the front yard so established by the existing
building nearest the street line.
   B.   Where 40 percent or more of the frontage on one side of a street
between two intersecting streets is developed with two or more buildings that
have a front yard of less depth than herein required, then:
      (1)   Where a building or building addition is to be erected on a parcel
of land that is within 100 feet of existing buildings on both sides, the
minimum front yard shall be a line drawn between the two closest front corners
of the adjacent building on each side.
      (2)   Where a building or building addition is to be erected on a parcel
of land that is within 100 feet of an existing building on one side only, such
building or building addition may be erected as close to the street as the
existing adjacent building.
165.35 BED AND BREAKFAST FACILITIES.
The City wishes to limit the use of homes in the City for the accommodation of
overnight guests and allow the limited accommodation of overnight guests in
some homes in the R-2 General Residential District of the City. A bed and
breakfast home is viewed as a way for property owners to supplement the
renovation, upkeep, and maintenance on large historically significant homes.
Bed and breakfast homes are not intended to be commercial business located in a
residential setting. A bed and breakfast home shall comply with the following
restrictions and regulations:
1.    The bed and breakfast home shall be at least 50 years old as of the date
of adoption of this Zoning Code.
2.    The bed and breakfast home shall be the primary residence of the record
title holder of the real estate on which the home is located.
3.    The bed and breakfast home shall be in an R-2 General Residential
District.
4.    The bed and breakfast home shall have no more than six rooms designed for
overnight accommodation of guests.
5.    The bed and breakfast home shall have at least one off-street parking
space per overnight guest room plus one parking space for the owner-manager.
6.    The bed and breakfast home shall have no more than two signs, or more
than one sign per street frontage, or a sign that is larger than a total of two
square feet. Signs on bed and breakfast homes shall have no internal lighting.
Signs shall be attached to the bed and breakfast home or shall project from two
sides of the home less than one foot.
7.    The owner shall not allow the use of the bed and breakfast home for
serving of food or beverages to groups or individuals who are not overnight
guests during the 12 hours preceding or succeeding the service of food and
beverages.
8.    The owner shall not allow the use of the bed and breakfast home for
meetings of persons who are not overnight guests during the 12 hours preceding
or succeeding the meeting under the circumstance that a fee is charged.
9.    Overnight guests shall mean persons not related within the third degree
or not related by marriage, who remain at the bed and breakfast home for a
period of four hours after midnight of any 24-hour period.
10.    Bed and Breakfast Homes in Business Districts. Bed and breakfast homes
shall be a permitted use in the B-1 General Business District and the B-
2 General Business District and shall comply with the same sections of the
zoning ordinance that govern hotels and motels.
11.    Non-Conforming Use. Any bed and breakfast home that was granted a
Special Use Permit by the Board of Adjustment prior to the adoption of this
Zoning Code shall be classified as a non-conforming use and allowed to continue
to operate indefinitely within the limitations of the Special Use Permit but
without restriction to the expiration date stated in the permit and such
operation shall not constitute a violation of this Zoning Code. Specifically,
the existing bed and breakfast home located at 418 West Pleasant Street need
not be the primary residence of the record titleholders and may be managed by
an employee who resides in the home, shall be allowed to expand within the
existing structure to a total of nine rooms for guests, and shall provide one
off-street parking space for each guest room. The home also shall be available
for meetings of not to exceed 25 persons who need not be overnight guests and
the home shall be permitted to serve coffee, soft drinks, desserts,
refreshments, and snacks but not full luncheons or dinners to persons at the
meetings.
165.36 DECKS AND PORCHES.
A deck, porch, or enclosed porch area shall be considered as an extension of
the building and shall conform to the same setback requirements as the
building.
165.37 HANDICAP RAMPS.
Handicap ramps may project into a required yard as long as the platform area is
no greater than five feet in width, the ramp is no greater than four feet in
width, the ramp or platform area are not covered or enclosed and the ramp or
platform area do not block or obstruct vision from the right-of-way. All
handicap ramps must be approved by the Building Official.
165.38 OFF-STREET PARKING REGULATIONS.
1.    General Regulations. There shall be in all districts at the time of
erection adequate access to all spaces in conjunction with all land or building
uses shall be provided, prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy.
   A.   Off-street parking spaces may be provided within a rear or side yard
which is in excess of the minimum yard setback unless otherwise provided. Off-
street parking may be provided within a front yard which is in excess of the
minimum front yard setback in all commercial and industrial districts.
   B.   Off - street parking for other than a residential use shall be either
on the same lot or within 300 feet of the building it is intended to serve,
measured from the nearest point of the off-street parking lot. Ownership or
control of the parking lot shall be shown by the applicant.
   C.   Required residential off - street parking spaces shall consist of a
parking strip, bay, driveway, garage, or any combination thereof, and shall be
located on the premises which they are intended to serve.
   D.   The minimum required off - street parking spaces shall not be replaced
by any other use unless and until equal parking facilities are provided
elsewhere.
   E.   Off - street parking existing at the effective date of this Zoning Code
in connection with the operation of an existing building or use shall not be
reduced to an amount less than required for a similar new building.
   F.   Two or more buildings may collectively provide the required number of
parking spaces in which the required number of spaces shall not be less than
the sum of the requirements for the individual computed separately.
   G.   In the instance of dual function of off-street parking spaces where
operating hours of buildings do not overlap, the Board of Appeals may grant an
exception.
   H.   The storage of merchandise, motor vehicles for sale, or the repair of
motor vehicles is prohibited.
   I.   For those uses not specifically mentioned, the requirements for off-
street parking facilities shall be in accord with a use which the Planning and
Zoning Commission considers is similar in type.
   J.   When units or measurements determining the number of required parking
spaces result in the requirement of a fractional space, any fraction up to and
including one-half shall be disregarded and fractions over one-half shall
require one parking space.
   K.   For the purpose of computing the number of parking spaces required, the
definition of usable floor area shall govern.
2.    Minimum Number of Spaces. The minimum number of off-street parking spaces
by type shall be determined in accordance with the following schedule:
Use Number of Minimum Parking Spaces per Unit of Measure
Use                                     Number of Minimum Parking Spaces per
                                        Unit of Measure
RESIDENTIAL
Residential, one-family and two-family  Two for each dwelling unit
Residential, multiple family            Two for each dwelling unit
                                        One for each two units, and one for
Housing for the elderly                 each employee. Should units revert to
                                        general occupancy, then two spaces per
                                        unit shall be provided
Mobile home park                        Two spaces per unit
INSTITUTIONAL
Churches or Temples                     One for each three seats or six feet of
                                        pews in the main unit of worship.
Hospitals                               One for each bed.
Convalescent or Nursing                 One for each four beds.
                                        One for each one teacher, employee, or
Elementary and Junior High Schools      administrator, in addition to the
                                        requirements of the auditorium and
                                        gymnasium.
                                        One for each one teacher, employee, or
                                        administrator, and one for each 10
Senior High Schools                     students, in addition to the
                                        requirements of the auditorium and
                                        gymnasium.
                                        One for each three persons allowed
Private Clubs or Lodge Halls            within the maximum occupancy load as
                                        established by local, County, or State
                                        fire, building or health codes
Private Golf Clubs, Swimming Pool       One for each two member families or
Clubs, Tennis Clubs, or Other Similar   individuals plus spaces required for
Uses                                    each accessory use such as a restaurant
                                        or bar.
Golf Courses Open to the General        Six for each one golf hole and one for
Public, Except Miniature or par 3       each one employee, plus spaces required
Courses                                 for each accessory use, such as a
                                        restaurant or bar.
                                        One for each five permitted active
Fraternity or Sorority                  members, or one for each two beds,
                                        whichever is greater.
Stadium, Sports Arena, or Similar Place One for each three seats or six feet of
of Outdoor Assembly                     benches.
Theaters, Auditoriums, and Gymnasiums   One for each three seats plus one for
                                        each two employees.
Nursery School, Day Nurseries, or       One for each 350 square feet of usable
Childcare Centers                       floor space.
                                        One for each employee or administrator
Public Buildings Such as City Halls,    in addition to one for each 50 square
Courthouses, Public Libraries, etc.     feet of useable floor space in waiting
                                        rooms and meeting rooms.
BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL
Planned Commercial or Shopping Center   One for each 125 square feet of useable
                                        floor area.
                                        One for each one employee. In addition,
                                        reservoir parking spaces equal in
                                        number to five times the maximum
Auto Wash (Automatic)                   capacity of the auto wash. Maximum
                                        capacity of the auto wash shall mean
                                        the greatest number of automobiles
                                        possible undergoing some phase of
                                        washing at the same time.
Auto Wash (Self-Service or Coin         Five for each washing stall in addition
Operated)                               to the stall itself.
                                        Three spaces for each of the first two
Beauty Parlor or Barber Shop            beauty or barber chairs, and one and
                                        one-half spaces for each additional
                                        chair.
Bowling Alleys                          Five for each one bowling lane plus
                                        accessory uses.
Dance Halls, Pool or Billiard Parlors,  One for each two persons allowed within
Roller Skating Rinks, Exhibition Halls  the maximum occupancy load as
and Assembly Halls without Fixed Seats. established by local, County or State
                                        fire, building or health codes.
                                        One for each 75 square feet of usable
Establishment for Sale, Consumption on  floor space or one for each two persons
the Premises, of Beverages, Food, or    allowed within the maximum occupancy
Refreshments                            load as established by building, or
                                        health codes.
Furniture and Appliance, Household      One for each 800 square feet of useable
Equipment, Repair Shops, Showroom of a  floor area. (For that floor area used
Plumber, Decorator, Electrician, or     in processing, one additional space
Similar Trade, Shoe Repair, and Other   provided for each two persons employed
Similar Uses                            therein.)
Gasoline Service Stations               Two for each lubrication stall, rack,
                                        or pit; and one for each gasoline pump.
Laundromats and Coin Operated Dry       One for each two washing and dry-
Cleaners                                cleaning machines.
Miniature or Par-3 Golf Courses         Three for each one hole plus one for
                                        each one employee.
Mortuary Establishments                 One for each 50 square feet of usable
                                        floor space.
Motel, Hotel, or Other Commercial       One for each one occupancy unit plus
Lodging Establishments                  one for each one employee.
                                        One for each 200 square feet of usable
Motor Vehicle Sales and Service         floor space of sales room and one for
Establishments                          each one auto service stall in the
                                        service room.
Retail Stores Except ss Otherwise       One for each 150 square feet of usable
Specified Herein                        floor space.
OFFICES
Banks, Business Offices of Professional
Offices Except as Indicated in the      One for each 200 square feet of usable
Following Professional Offices of       floor space.
Doctors, Dentists, or Similar
Professions
                                        One for each 50 square feet of useable
Professional Offices of Doctors,        floor area in waiting room, and one for
Dentists, or Similar Professions        each examining room, dental chair, or
                                        similar use area.
INDUSTRIAL
                                        Five plus one for every one and one-
Industrial or Research Establishments,  half employees in the largest working
and Related Accessory Offices           shift. Space on site shall also be
                                        provided for all construction workers
                                        during periods of plant construction.
                                        Five plus one for every one employee in
Warehouses and Wholesale Establishments the largest working shift, or five plus
and Related Accessory Offices           one for every 1,700 square feet of
                                        usable floor space, whichever is
                                        greater.
 
3.    Off-Street Parking Space Layout, Standards, Construction, and
Maintenance. Whenever the off-street parking requirements in the above require
the building of an off-street parking facility, off-street parking lots shall
be laid out, constructed, and maintained in accordance with the following
standard regulations:
   A.   No parking lot shall be constructed unless and until a permit therefore
is issued by the Building Official. Applications for a permit shall be
submitted to the Building Department in such form as may be determined by the
Building Official and shall be accompanied with two sets of site plans for the
development and construction of the parking lot showing that the provisions of
this section will be fully complied with.
   B.   Plans for the layout of off-street parking facilities shall be in
accord with the following minimum requirements:
 
                                                     Total Width Total Width of
                                                     of One Tier Two Tiers of
Parking      Maneuvering Parking Space Parking Space of Spaces   Spaces Plus
Patter       Lane Width  Width         Length        Plus        Maneuvering
                                                     Maneuvering Lane
                                                     Lane
0 degrees    12 feet     8 feet        23 feet       20 feet     28 feet
parallel
30 degrees - 12 feet     8 feet 6      20 feet       32 feet     52 feet
53 degrees               inches
54 degrees - 15 feet     8 feet 6      20 feet       36 feet 6   58 feet
74 degrees               inches                      inches
75 degrees - 20 feet     9 feet        20 feet       40 feet     60 feet
90 degrees
 
   C.   All spaces shall be provided adequate access by means of maneuvering
lanes. Backing directly onto a street shall be prohibited.
   D.   Adequate ingress and egress to the parking lot by means of clearly
limited and defined drives shall be provided for all vehicles.
   E.   Ingress and egress to a parking lot lying in an area zoned for other
than single-family residential use shall not be across land zoned for single-
family residential use.
   F.   Each entrance and exit to and from any off-street parking lot located
in an area zoned for other than single-family residential use shall be at least
25 feet distant from adjacent property in any single-family residential
district.
   G.   All maneuvering lane widths shall permit one-way traffic movement,
except that the 90 degrees pattern may permit two-way movement.
   H.   The entire parking area, including parking spaces and maneuvering
lanes, required under this section shall be provided with asphaltic or concrete
surfacing in accordance with specification approved by the City Manager. The
parking area shall be surfaced within one year of the date occupancy permit is
issued.
   I.   Off-street parking areas shall be drained so as to dispose of all
surface water accumulated in the parking area in such a way as to preclude
drainage of water onto adjacent property or toward buildings.
   J.   All lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking area shall be so
installed as to be confined within and directed onto the parking area only.
   K.   In all cases where a wall extends to an alley which is a means of
ingress and egress to an off-street parking area, it shall be permissible to
end the wall not more than 10 feet from such alley line in order to permit a
wider means of access to the parking area.
4.    Off-Street Loading and Unloading.
   A.   On the same premises with every building, structure, or part thereof,
involving the receipt or distribution of vehicles or materials or merchandise,
there shall be provided and maintained on the lot, adequate space for standing,
loading, and unloading in order to avoid undue interference with public use of
dedicated right - of - ways. Such space shall be provided as follows:
      (1)   All spaces shall be provided as required in this section, except as
hereinafter provided for industrial districts.
      (2)   Within an industrial district all spaces shall be laid out in the
dimension of at least 10 x 50 feet, or 500 square feet in area, with a
clearance of at least 14 feet in height. Loading dock approaches shall be
provided with a pavement having an asphaltic or Portland cement binder so as to
provide a permanent, durable and dustless surface. All spaces in industrial
districts shall be provided in the following ration of spaces to floor area:
 
Gross Floor Area (in square feet) Loading and Unloading Space Required
0 - 1,400                         None.
1,401 - 20,000                    One space.
20,001 - 100,000                  One space plus one space for each 20,000 in
                                  excess of 20,001 square feet.
100,000 and over                  Five spaces.
 
   B.   All loading and unloading in an industrial district shall be provided
in the rear or interior side. Loading and unloading shall be permitted in a
front yard, provided that there shall be sufficient depth for trucks so as to
not block the public right-of-way while loading or unloading.
   C.   In those instances where exterior side yards have a common relationship
with an industrial district across a public thoroughfare, loading and unloading
may take place in said exterior side yard when the setback is equal to at least
50 feet.
5.    Uses Not Otherwise Included Within A Specific District.
   A.   Because the uses hereinafter referred to possess unique characteristics
making it impractical to include them in a specific use district
classification, they may be permitted by the Board of Adjustment under the
conditions specified, and after public hearing. In every case, the uses
hereinafter referred to shall be specifically prohibited from any residential
districts, unless otherwise specified.
   B.   These uses require special consideration since they service an area
larger than the City or require sizeable land areas, creating problems of
control with reference to abutting use districts. Reference to those uses
falling specifically within the intent of this section are as follows:
      (1)   Outdoor Theaters. Because outdoor theaters possess the unique
characteristics of being used only after darkness and since they develop a
concentration of vehicular traffic in terms of ingress and egress from their
parking area, they shall be permitted in I-2 and I-3 Districts only. The
proposed internal design of an outdoor theater shall receive approval from the
City Manager as to adequacy of drainage, lighting, and other technical aspects.
   6.    Exemption - Home Occupations. The provisions of this section do not
apply to home occupations as defined in Section
165.02(8)(A), unless the home occupation or commercial activity would require
more than two off-street parking spaces. The two off-street parking spaces
required for each dwelling unit shall not be counted as available to meet the
off-street parking spaces required for the home occupation.
165.39 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
1.   Special Use Permit.
   A.   Special Use Permit. Upon receipt of application and payment of the fee,
the Board of Adjustment may, by Special Use Permit, after public hearing and
subject to such reasonable conditions and protective restrictions as are deemed
necessary, authorize the following special uses in any district from which they
are otherwise prohibited. The application fee is subject to the City fees and
fines resolution.
(Paragraph A – Ord. 1252 – Jun. 25 Supp.)
      (1)   Trailer or mobile home park, but only when in compliance with
Section
165.14.
      (2)   Retail stores in buildings which are classified as non-conforming
uses, provided that the property owner designates the specific type of retail
store. If the ownership of the property changes or if a different type of
retail use is proposed, then the Special Use Permit shall be null and void and
the owner shall be required to apply for anew Special Use Permit. The granting
of a Special Use Permit shall not exempt the owners of such properties from
complying with other provisions of this Zoning Code including the parking space
requirements.
      (3)   Bed and Breakfast Lodging Facilities.
      (4)   Temporary light manufacturing in B-1 or B-2 Business for a period
not to exceed three years. This permit is not transferable but may be renewable
on a case by case basis subject to Section
165.39(3).
      (5)   Sales and service of mobile homes including the storage and display
of mobile home units and rental of spaces for recreational vehicles.
      (6)   Racetracks and motorcycle, ATV, or snowmobile tracks in I-3 Heavy
Industrial Districts.
2.    Mailing to Property Owners. Notice of hearing on a request for a special
permit shall be mailed to the owners of record of all lots within 500 feet of
the boundaries of the premises at least five days before the hearing.
3.    Written Protest. If a written protest against a proposed special permit
shall be presented to the Board of Adjustment, signed by owners of 20 percent
or more of the lots, by area, within 200 feet of the premises, the special
permit shall not be effective, except by a favorable vote of at least three-
fourths of the members of the Board. A majority vote shall be required if no
written protest as defined in this section is presented.
4.    Hazardous Substances. Any use of premises involving the storage,
processing, or manufacturing of hazardous substances shall be reviewed by the
City Manager. In reviewing the plans for the use of such substances, the City
Manager shall consult with State and federal agencies to determine that the
proposed use does not endanger the public health and safety. If the City
Manager believes that the applicant has shown that adequate measures will be
taken to protect the public, a use permit shall be issued. Any denial of a use
permit may be appealed by the applicant to the Council within 10 day of the
denial.
5.    Change of Ownership. If the ownership of the property changes or if a
different type of use is proposed, then the Special Use Permit shall be null
and void and the owner shall be required to apply for a new Special Use Permit.
The granting of a Special Use Permit shall not exempt the owners of such
properties from complying with the other provisions of this Zoning Code
including the parking space requirements.
6.    Changes to Building. If the owner of a building changes the exterior
dimensions of such building, then, the Special Use Permit shall be null and
void and the owners shall be required to apply for a new Special Use Permit.
165.40 FENCES.
1.    Size and Visibility. No fence or hedge more than three feet high, four
feet if it is a woven wire fence, may be located in the front yard setback.
Fences or hedges of up to six feet high may be erected on those parts of a lot
that are further back from a street than the front yard setback. A corner lot
has a double front yard setback. Any fence built in an easement is subject to
removal at the owner's expense.
2.    Permits. Permits are required for all residential fences proposed for
construction in front yard setback areas. Permits are required for all public,
commercial, and industrial use fences.
165.41 SIGN REGULATIONS.
1.   Purpose. This Code provides for the regulation of the location, size,
construction, duration, use, and maintenance of all signs within the City.
2.    General Sign Regulations. The following shall apply:
   A.   A sign shall not obstruct the visibility required by pedestrians or
vehicular traffic.
   B.   Unless otherwise specified within, all signs shall conform to the
setback requirements for the district in which they are located. However, signs
on properties that abut residential zones, but are larger than signs allowed in
residential zones, must have a minimum setback of 25 feet from residentially
zoned property.
   C.   No sign shall be placed higher than the height requirements of the
district in which the sign is located.
   D.   No sign shall exceed the size requirements for the type of sign and the
location of the sign.
   E.   No sign shall block a fire escape door or window.
   F.   Except for an approved projecting sign, a sign or banner shall be
securely fixed to a building or structure and shall not project from the
building or structure more than 12 inches.
   G.   A sing shall not be erected on or over the public right-of-way unless a
sidewalk obstruction permit has been obtained.
   H.   No sign shall contain the words stop or danger or substantially imitate
a sign posted by governmental officials.
   I.   All signs shall be maintained in a neat and presentable condition and a
sign shall not be a visual nuisance.
   J.   Obsolete signs shall be removed by the owner or agent of the property
upon which the sign may be found within 30 days after written notification.
   K.   Signs in residential zoning districts remain subject to existing
regulations as found elsewhere in this Code.
   L.   In the agricultural zoning district, signs shall not exceed 32 square
feet in size or 10 feet in height when measured from the average grade of the
ground to the top of the sign.
   M.   In addition to the requirements of this Code, signs that would overhang
an Iowa Department of Transportation right-of-way may be subject to obtaining
DOT approval.
3.    Requirements for Powered Signs.
   A.   Electronic message signs are prohibited within A-1, MH-1, R-1, R-2, and
R-3 Zoning Districts unless associated with an institutional property . Such
signs must be located a minimum of 100 feet from an adjoining lot used or zoned
for residential purposes. Such signs shall be a maximum of 30 square feet in
size when located in residential zones.
   B.   Audible signs are prohibited except for use by City officials, law
enforcement, and emergency vehicles.
   C.   No sign will use flashing or strobing lights that substantially imitate
lighting used by emergency vehicles or other applications as used by
governmental, emergency, or law enforcement personnel.
4.    Requirements for Wall, Monument, and Pole Signs.
   A.   These types of signs are eligible uses in all commercial and industrial
zoning districts.
   B.   Wall signs shall not be larger than 100 square feet, except in the B-
1 and I-3 Districts where the maximum size is 300 square feet.
   C.   Wall signs shall not, either singly or in combination, take up more
than 50 percent of the available wall space per each side of a building.
   D.   Monument signs shall not be more than five feet in height at the top of
the sign and not more than 10 feet in length including the sign's base or
foundation.
   E.   Pole signs shall not be more than 30 feet high at the top of the sign.
   F.   Pole signs shall have at least 10 feet of clearance from the ground to
the bottom of the sign and shall not be more than 30 feet high at the top of
the sign.
   G.   No wall, monument, or pole sign shall be installed in the right-of-way.
   H.   Businesses are allowed one monument or pole sign per principle building
in all zoning districts except I-3 , wherein businesses are allowed one
monument sign per street entrance or one pole sign per principal building.
5.    Requirements for Projecting Signs.
   A.   Projecting signs that overhang a public right-of-way are limited to the
Central Business District, B-2.
   B.   Projecting signs that do not overhang a public right-of-way and meet
the setback requirements of their zoning district are also allowed.
   C.   Projecting signs are limited to one per front of a structure. Buildings
on corner lots have double-fronts.
   D.   Projecting signs shall not be larger than 16 square feet per side nor
more than four inches in thickness.
   E.   Projecting signs shall not extend farther than five feet from the wall
of the building to which they are attached.
   F.   There must be a minimum 10 - foot clearance is required between the
bottom of the sign and finished grade.
   G.   Projecting signs shall not extend above the roofline of the buildings
on which they are located or 20 feet from finished grade, whichever is less.
   H.   Buildings with separate businesses above the ground floor may each have
their own signs. Such signs must have at least eight feet of separation between
them. The higher sign shall not extend above the roofline of the building.
   I.   Lighted Projecting Signs.
      (1)   Projecting signs shall not have internal lighting, but may have
external lighting.
      (2)   Channel letters and channel logos may only be internally
illuminated.
      (3)   No open face channel letters are allowed.
      (4)   Any electrical work that requires an addition or extension of
circuits shall require a separate permit.
6.    Requirements for Directional Signs. Directional signs are limited to one
per street entrance or one per five acres, whichever is less. Directions signs
shall not be larger than 10 square feet and no taller than four feet.
7.    Temporary Sign Regulations. The following shall apply:
   A.   A sign advertising a yard sale or a garage sale shall not be posted
more than three days prior to the sale event nor more than one day after the
event.
   B.   No temporary sign, including commercial, special event, real estate or
garage sale sign, shall be placed on any utility pole or traffic control sign
post or pole.
   C.   No temporary sign may be placed in the right-of-way.
   D.   No temporary signs are limited to 16 square feet and longest dimension
of five feet.
   E.   Temporary signs are eligible uses in all zoning districts and do not
require a building permit if they:
      (1)   Do not create a sidewalk obstruction if placed in a public right-
of-way or a nuisance of any type if placed in a public right-of-way or a front
setback area.
      (2)   Meet the size, height, and use requirements.
      (3)   Are not in place for more than four days for garage sale signs, two
months for election or special events signs, and six months for construction
signs.
      (4)   Temporary signs that do not meet these standards require a Special
Use Permit.
   F.   Feather flag signs are allowed in all zoning districts except the R-1,
R-2, and R-3 Districts and are limited to eight feet high and two and a half
feet wide.
8.    Non-Compliance. All permanent signs erected prior to October 16, 1991,
shall be classified as non-conforming uses, and shall be governed by Section
165.42.
9.    Permit Required.
   A.   A permanent sign shall not be painted, placed on a structure, erected,
relocated, or installed prior to the issuance of a building permit for the
sign.
   B.   A temporary sign not exempt from requiring a permit shall not be
painted, placed on a structure, erected, relocated, or installed prior to the
issuance of a building permit for the sign.
10.    Administration and Variances. The following shall apply:
   A.   The City Manager or their designee is hereby authorized to administer
this Code and is authorized to enter a ruling that a sign does not comply with
the requirements of this Code and may enter an order that the offending sign be
removed or modified.
   B.   The Board of Adjustment shall be authorized to hold a public hearing
regarding a sign variance and make final decision regarding approving or
denying the variance.
11.    Violations and Penalties. It shall be a violation of this Code to
disobey an order of the City Manager or their designee issued under the terms
of this Code and it shall be a violation of this Code for the owner or person
in possession of a real property to allow the presence on the property of a
permanent or temporary sign that violates a term of this Code; and, it shall be
a violation of this Code for a person to post a permanent or temporary sign in
violation of this Code, and, a violation of this Code shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty not to exceed $100.00 and the offending sign shall
be subject to abatement as a nuisance.
165.42 NON-CONFORMANCE USES.
1.    Uses Continued or Changed. The lawful use of a building at the time of
the adoption of this Zoning Code may be continued even though such use does not
conform with the provisions hereof. If no structural alterations are made, a
nonconforming use of a building may be changed to another nonconforming use of
the same or more restricted classification. The foregoing provisions shall also
apply to nonconforming uses in districts as may be hereafter changed. Whenever
a nonconforming use of building has been changed to a more restricted use or to
a conforming use, such use shall not thereafter be changed to a less restricted
use.
2.    Use Destroyed or Damaged. No building which has been damaged by fire,
explosion, act of God, or the public enemy to the extent of more than 65
percent of its assessed value, shall be restored except in conformity with the
regulations of this Zoning Code.
3.    Use Stopped or Discontinued. In the event that a non-conforming use of
any building or premises is discontinued or its normal operation stopped for a
period of two years, the use of the same shall thereafter conform to the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
4.    Use Extended. A nonconforming use occupying only a portion of a building
may be extended throughout the building if the same has been lawfully acquired
and actually devoted to such use, previous to the adoption of this Zoning Code
or any affecting amendments thereof.
165.43 ENFORCEMENT, APPLICATIONS, AND PERMITS.
1.   Building Official to Administer. It shall be the duty of the person
designated by the City Manager as Building Official to administer and enforce
the regulations contained herein.
2.    Building Permit Required. It shall be unlawful for a property owner or
contractor to commence or to proceed with the erection, construction,
reconstruction, change of use, alteration, enlargement, extension, raising, or
moving of any building or structure, fences located in front yard easements or
parking lots, or any portion thereof, without first having applied in writing
to the Building Official for a building permit to do so and a building permit
has been granted therefor.
3.    Details In Application. Every application for a building permit shall be
in writing and delivered to the Building Official and shall be accompanied by a
detailed set of plans, showing the size of the proposed building or structure,
its location on the lot, the basic materials of which it is to be constructed
and the details and type of construction to be used. On the issuance of a
permit one set of said plans shall be retained by the Building Official as a
permanent record and one set shall be returned to the applicant. In cases of
any building or structure to be located outside the fire districts, the
Building Official may, at their own discretion, permit the substitution of a
written statement covering the essential information required in place of said
plans.
4.    Blank Forms Furnished. Blank forms shall be provided by the Building
Official for the use of those applying for permits as provided for in this
Zoning Code. Any permits issued by the Building Official shall be on standard
forms for such purpose and furnished by the City.
5.    Records Kept; Permit Fees. A careful record of all such applications,
plans and permits shall be kept in the office of the City Manager. The fee
structure for building permits shall be established by a resolution of the
Council.
6.    Expiration Of Permit; Renewal. Any building permit under which no
construction work has been commenced within six months after the date of issue
of said permit or under which the proposed construction has not been completed
within two years of the date of issue shall expire by limitation; and no work
or operation shall take place under such permit after expiration. Upon payment
of $0.10 per month for each $1,000.00 of the construction cost of which the
original permit was issued but not less than $1.00 per month in any case, a
building permit may be once extended for a period not exceeding six months by
the Building Official.
7.    Certificate of Occupancy. Subsequent to the effective date of this Zoning
Code no change in the use of occupancy of land, nor any change of use or
occupancy in an existing building other than for single-family dwelling
purposes, shall be made, nor shall any new building be occupied until a
Certificate of Occupancy has been issued by the Building Official. Every
Certificate of Occupancy shall state that the new occupancy complies with all
provisions of the Zoning Code. No permit for excavation for, or the erection or
alteration of, any building shall be issued before the application has been
made and approve for a Certificate of Occupancy and compliance, and no building
or premise shall be occupied until such certificate and permit is issued. A
record of all Certificates of Occupancy shall be kept on file in the office of
the Building Official, and copies shall be furnished on request to any person
having a proprietary or tenancy interest in land or building affected by such
Certificate of Occupancy.
8.    Posting of Permit. It shall be the duty of the holder of any building
permit to display said permit at the construction site in a location easily
visible from the public right-of-way and to maintain such posting until
construction is completed.
9.    Violation Penalty Fee. A violation of this chapter by the commencement of
any unlawful act as described above or by failure to comply with any of the
requirements of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed
$100.00 and each 24-hour period from the commencement of the unlawful act or
failure to comply may be prosecuted as an individual violation of this Code. In
addition, a violation of this Code by the commencement of an unlawful act or a
failure to comply as described above may be prosecuted as a violation of
Chapter 3 and shall be subject to the remedies provided by that chapter.
In addition to the remedies set forth above, the Building Official may simply
increase the fee for the building permit by $25.00, if the applicant has
already started construction before the permit was issued.
Note: Section
165.43(1) provides that the Building Official shall enforce the regulations
provided in Section
165.43.
165.44 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
1.    Provisions for Amendment. An amendment to the Zoning Code may be
accomplished by petition, direction of the Council, or the initiative of the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
2.    Petition for Change or Amendment. Whenever the owners of 50 percent or
more of the area of the lots in any district or part thereof desire any
amendment, supplement, or change in any of the provisions of this Zoning Code
applicable to such area, they may file a petition with the Clerk requesting the
Council to make such amendment, supplement, or change. Such petition shall be
accompanied by a map or diagram showing the area affected by the proposed
amendment, supplement, or change together with the boundaries of the said area
and the names and addresses of all the owners on record in the office of the
County Recorder, of lots therein and within a distance of 500 feet outside of
the boundaries of said area; and such petition shall immediately be transmitted
to the Planning and Zoning Commission for an investigation and report.
3.    Directed to the Planning and Zoning Commission. The Council may, by
resolution, direct that the Planning and Zoning Commission study and make
recommendations regarding a proposed amendment to the Zoning Code which
resolution containing the proposed amendment shall be transmitted to the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
4.    Zoning Commission Amendments. The Planning and Zoning Commission may, by
resolution, propose an amendment to the Zoning Code and proceed to make
recommendations regarding the proposed amendment to the Council.
5.    Action by Planning and Zoning Commission. The Planning and Zoning
Commission, upon receipt of a petition for amendment under Section
165.44(2), or a resolution of the Council under Section
165.44(3), or upon passing its own resolution under Section
165.44(4), shall investigate and recommend to the Council whether any
amendment, supplement or change should be made to the City zoning regulations.
Within 30 days of the receipt of a proposed amendment, supplement, or change,
the Planning and Zoning Commission shall conduct a public hearing which any and
all parties of interest and citizens may attend. The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall cause to be published in the City's official newspaper at
least one notice of the meeting and the proposed amendment, supplement, or
change not less than seven days and not more than 20 days prior to the public
hearing. Within 10 days after the public hearing regarding the proposed
amendment, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall present a written report
and recommendation to the Council. If the Planning and Zoning Commission has
not completed the recommendation within 30 days of receipt of the petition by
the Planning and Zoning Commission, it shall file with the Council a written
report detailing the progress of the Commission on the investigation of the
recommendation.
6.   Filing Fee. A petition for change or amendment to the zoning district
boundaries shall by accompanied by a filing fee. This fee is subject to the
City’s Fees & Fines Resolution. The fee shall be deposited in the General Fund
of the City. Denial of the requested change shall not cause the fee to be
refunded to the petitioner.
(Subsection 6 – Ord. 1252 – Jun. 25 Supp.)
7.    Public Hearing. After receipt of the Planning and Zoning Commission's
recommendation, the Council shall consider the amendment, supplement, or change
at a public hearing during a regularly scheduled Council meeting open to the
public. Notice of this hearing shall be provided by publication in the City's
official newspaper at least once but not less than seven days and not greater
than 20 days prior to Council's consideration of the amendment, supplement, or
change. Said public hearing shall not take place sooner than the first
regularly scheduled Council meeting after notice is published.
8.    Conditions. The Council may impose conditions on a property owner which
are in addition to existing regulations if the additional conditions have been
agreed to in writing by the property owner before the public hearing required
under this section or any adjournment of the hearing. The conditions must be
reasonable and imposed to satisfy public needs which are directly caused by the
requested change.
9.    Additional Notice. The City may, at its discretion, provide additional
notice by regular mail to record owners of property located within the property
subject to the amendment and to record owners of property within 200 feet of
the exterior boundaries of property subject to the amendment.
10.    Protesting, Change, or Amendment.
   A.   A protest against any proposed amendment, supplement or change may be
filed with the Clerk prior to the public hearing of the Planning and Zoning
Commission or with the Council at the public hearing considering the amendment,
supplement, or change.
   B.   The protest must be written and if signed by the owners of 20 percent
or more of the area of the lots included in the proposed change or repeal, or
by the owners of 20 percent or more of the property which is located within 200
feet or more of the exterior boundaries of the property for which the change or
repeal is proposed, then the change or repeal shall not become effective except
by the favorable vote of at least three-fourths of all the members of the
Council.
11.    Renewal of Petition. Whenever a petition requesting an amendment,
supplement, or change of any regulation prescribed by this Zoning Code has been
denied by the Council, such petition cannot be renewed for one year thereafter,
unless, it be signed by at least 50 percent of the property owners who
previously objected to the change; this provision, however, shall not prevent
the Council from acting on its own initiative in any case at any time provided
in this chapter.
12.    Notice Provisions. For the purposes of this section, notice of the
Planning and Zoning Commission hearings and the Council meetings regarding
amendments, supplements, and changes to zoning properties shall include the
following information: The date, time, and place of the hearing, the proposed
amendment, statement that a written protest to the amendment may be presented
at the meeting; and that the proposed change shall not become law unless passed
by a three-quarter vote of all members of the Council if the protest is signed
by the owners of 20 percent or more of the area of the lots within the area of
the proposed change or 20 percent of the area of the lots within 200 feet of
the exterior boundaries of the property for which the change is proposed. The
notice must also state that the Council may impose reasonable restrictions are
presented in writing at the hearing before the Council.
165.45 SPECIAL USE PERMITS FOR WIND TURBINES.
1.   Purpose and General Objectives. In adopting this chapter, the purpose of
this Zoning Code is to provide for the regulation of any structure designed to
harness, use, or store energy from wind power designed and built as either
freestanding structures or structures that are attached to a primary or
accessory building. It is a subject of legitimate concern for the City to use
its zoning powers to preserve the quality of life, preserve the City's
neighborhoods, and to effectively meet the increasing encroachments of this
type of technology upon the quality of life within the City.
2.    Special Use Permit Required. Wind turbines are declared to be a permitted
use in any zoning district within the City. However, wind turbines and their
support structures shall not be permitted unless a Special Use Permit is
approved by the Board of Adjustment.
3.    Application Submittals. A person or entity seeking a Special Use Permit
shall submit the following information to the Clerk:
   A.   Building permit application on forms provided by the City.
   B.   A Special Use Permit application on forms provided by the City.
   C.   A detailed site plan which shall include:
      (1)   The location of any proposed wind turbine (including any guy lines
and anchors).
      (2)   The proposed location of any proposed supporting structure.
      (3)   All existing buildings and their dimensions.
      (4)   The locations of all property lines and the physical dimensions of
the property.
      (5)   The right-of-way of any public road that is contiguous with the
property.
      (6)   The location of any overhead utility lines.
      (7)   Dimensions between the objects within the site plan.
      (8)   Demonstrated compliance to all setback requirements as set forth in
Section
165.45(7).
   D.   Four different photographs of the surrounding area from the proposed
base, one facing each cardinal direction.
   E.   Product information about any proposed wind turbine, including, but not
necessarily limited to:
      (1)   Wind system specifications, including manufacturer and model.
      (2)   Noise output as measured in decibels.
      (3)   Rotor diameter.
      (4)   Tower height.
      (5)   Tower type (freestanding or guyed).
      (6)   Wind turbine blueprint or drawing.
      (7)   Wind turbine tower foundations blueprint or drawing.
   F.   A written engineering analysis of the wind turbine and tower showing
compliance with the Building Code as adopted by the City in
Chapter 153 and certified by a licensed professional engineer.
   G.   Documentation that demonstrates that, to the reasonable satisfaction of
the Board of Adjustment, the proposed wind turbine is safe and the surrounding
areas will not be negatively affected by thrown ice.
4.   Application Fee and Other City Costs. The application fee for a Special
Use Permit is subject to the City’s Fees & Fines Resolution. The applicant is
also obligated to pay to City, within 30 days of billing, all legal,
engineering, or surveying charges the City incurs as a part of their
application process, if applicable.
(Subsection 4 – Ord. 1252 – Jun. 25 Supp.)
5.    Application Process.
   A.   A Special Use Permit shall not be granted by the Board of Adjustment
unless and until the following requirements are met:
      (1)   A building permit application, a Special Use Permit application,
and all information set out in Section
165.45(3) are submitted for review.
      (2)   Notice of public hearing shall be given at least four and not more
than 20 days in advance of public hearing. Notice of public hearing shall occur
in the same manner as required by law for variances.
      (3)   The Board of Adjustment shall consider the following criteria in
granting or denying a Special Use Permit, together with any additional criteria
the Board of Adjustment finds necessary to protect the public health, safety,
and general welfare in accordance with the intent of this Zoning Code:
         a.    That the proposed location, design, construction, and operation
of the proposed use adequately safeguards the health, safety, and general
welfare of persons residing or working in adjoining or surrounding property.
         b.    That the proposed construction and use are in compliance with
the requirements of this Code.
         c.    That such use shall not unduly increase congestion in the
streets or public danger of fire and safety.
         d.    That such use shall not unduly create a threat of damage to
either public or private property.
         e.    That such use shall not diminish or impair established property
values in adjoining or surrounding property; and
         f.    That such use will not unduly burden public utilities.
6.    Board Determination. The Board of Adjustment may approve the Special Use
Permit as submitted, or before approval, may require that the applicant modify,
alter, adjust, or amend the proposal as the Board of Adjustment deems necessary
to preserve the intent and purpose of this Zoning Code in order to promote the
health, safety, and general welfare of the community.
7.    Setbacks. Wind turbines must comply with the following minimum setback
requirements:
   A.   The minimum distance between the wind turbine's base and any property
line shall be 110 percent of the wind turbine height.
   B.   Except for wind turbines with outputs of 10 kW and less, no primary or
accessory building shall be within 110 percent of the wind turbine height.
   C.   No other wind turbine shall be located within twice the distance of the
wind turbine height of the proposed structure.
   D.   Guy wires and guy wire anchors may extend no closer than 10 feet to the
property boundaries of the installation site.
8.    Setback Waiver. The Board of Adjustment may reduce any minimum setback
distance between structures or property lines if the applicant can provide
evidence or documentation that such a waiver is justified.
9.    Installation. Installation shall be conducted in compliance with industry
and State standards.
10.    Fencing, Color, and Ground Clearance. Wind turbines must comply with the
following requirements:
   A.   All wind turbine towers, including any climbing aids, shall be secured
against unauthorized access by means of a locked barrier or security fence six
feet in height.
   B.   Wind turbines must be non-reflective and neutral in color.
   C.   Wind turbines shall maintain at least a 25-foot buffer between the
bottom of any blade and the ground.
11.    Noise. When measured from the property line, wind turbines shall not
emit more than 60 dB in residential zones and 75 dB in any other zone. This
shall be proven through provided engineered specifications.
12.    Air Safety. Lighting shall be minimized and allowed only when complying
with FAA or other federal or State safety regulations.
13.    Signal Interference. The owner of a wind energy system must take such
reasonable steps as are necessary to prevent, eliminate, or mitigate any
interference with cellular, radio, or television signals caused by the wind
energy system.
14.    Signs. No wind turbine, tower, building, or other structure associated
with a wind energy system may be used to advertise or promote any product or
service. No word or graphic representation, other than appropriate warning
signs and owner identification, may be placed on a wind turbine, tower,
building, or other structure associated with a wind energy system so as to be
visible from any public road.
15.    Utility Notification. No wind turbine shall be installed until evidence
has been given that the utility company has been informed of the applicant's
intent to install an interconnected customer-owned generator and has received
approval from the utility to proceed.
16.    Insurance. The owner-operator of a wind turbine shall maintain casualty
and liability insurance in amounts of not less than $500,000.00 for any one
accident with limits of $500,000.00 for property damage.
17.    New Wind Turbines. Any new wind turbine shall obtain a Special Use
Permit, regardless if a permit was obtained for a previous system in the same
location.
18.    New Buildings or Structures. No new primary or accessory structure shall
be built within the 110 percent setback area of an existing wind turbine
without a variance from the Board of Adjustment.
19.    Exceptions. This Code shall not include decorative windmills that are
incapable or producing or storing energy.
20.    Revocation of a Special Use Permit. Once a Special Use Permit has been
granted, it may be revoked, upon notice and warning, for a violation of any of
the conditions imposed therein.
21.    Removal. If any wind turbine is not used for a period of one year or is
in a state of disrepair as determined by the Council, it shall be the duty and
obligation of the party then in possession and control of the site to have the
unused structure completely dismantled and removed from the site.
165.46 SPECIAL USE PERMITS FOR QUALIFIED STORAGE BUILDINGS IN RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS.
1.    Purpose and General Objectives. In adopting this subchapter, the purpose
of this Zoning Code is to provide for the regulation of qualified storage
buildings in residential zones that are not subordinate to, incidental to, or
customary in connection with a principal building (such as a dwelling) on the
same lot. It is a subject of legitimate concern for the City to use its zoning
powers to balance the need for such structures with the need to preserve the
City's existing neighborhoods along with the quality of life within the City.
2.    Requirements of a Qualified Storage Building. Qualified storage building
shall mean a structure that has all of the following characteristics and
satisfies all of the following requirements:
   A.   The building is located on a lot in a residential district (R-1, R-2,
or R-3) but its use is not subordinate to, incidental to, or customary in
connection with a principal building on the same lot as required for accessory
buildings or an accessory use, as defined in Section
165.02(1)(A) and (B) .
   B.   The owner of the lot upon which the building shall be constructed owns
and resides upon another residential lot located no more than 500 feet from the
nearest points of the two lots, with each lot being subject to recorded
covenants providing that no interest in either lot shall be sold, leased, or
otherwise conveyed separate or apart from the other for a period of no less
than five years from the date construction of the qualified storage building is
completed.
   C.   The qualified storage building shall not be used as a dwelling; shall
be ineligible for use with respect to any home occupation; and shall not be put
to any use which would constitute a violation within the R-1, R-2, or R-
3 Zoning Districts if the building were located on the same lot as the owner's
residence.
   D.   The minimum lot line setbacks shall not be less than those of a
principal building in the applicable residential district in which the building
is to be located.
   E.   The building may be constructed up to 25 feet high at its roof peak.
   F.   The minimum distance between the proposed building and any other
building on the lot shall not be less than 10 feet from the nearest points of
each.
   G.   The maximum number of buildings per lot shall be as follows: two for
any lot 60 feet wide or less; or three for any lot more than 60 feet wide.
   H.   The proposed location, design, construction, and use of the proposed
building is harmonious with the surrounding area and is not detrimental to the
health, safety, or general welfare of persons residing or working in or on
adjacent or surrounding lots.
   I.   The use of the building shall not create a threat of damage to either
public or private property.
   J.   The building shall not unduly increase congestion upon public streets.
   K.   The building shall not unduly burden public utilities.
   L.   The building shall be of new construction, consisting of new (i.e.,
previously unused) materials.
3.    Special Use Permit Required. Qualified storage buildings are declared to
be special uses within the R-1, R-2, and R-3 Zoning Districts. No such
buildings shall be permitted unless a Special Use Permit is approved by the
Board of Adjustment following a public hearing. No application for a Special
Use Permit shall be approved unless it satisfies all conditions of this Code.
4.    Application Submittals. A person or entity seeking a Special Use Permit
pursuant to this Code shall submit the following information to the Clerk:
   A.   A Building Permit application on forms provided by the City.
   B.   A Special Use Permit application on forms provided by the City.
   C.   The applicant's written description of the building's intended use.
   D.   A detailed site plan which shall include, though not necessarily be
limited to:
      (1)   The location of the proposed building along with its dimensions,
including its height.
      (2)   All existing buildings on the same lot and their dimensions.
      (3)   The locations of all property lines and the physical dimensions of
the property.
      (4)   The right-of-way of any public street that is contiguous to the
property.
      (5)   The dimensions and locations of any easements on the property.
      (6)   Dimensions between buildings located on the site plan.
      (7)   Demonstrated compliance to all setback requirements as set forth
herein.
      (8)   A plan for stormwater management, if the City determines that it is
necessary.
   E.   Four different photographs of the surrounding area from the building's
proposed location, one facing each cardinal direction.
   F.   An accurate visual representation showing the proposed building's
appearance upon its completion (for example: elevation drawings for the actual
building or photographs or drawings of a substantially similar building or
buildings).
   G.   Information concerning the materials to be used in the construction of
the building.
   H.   One recorded copy, or alternatively one fully executed original copy,
of restrictive covenants providing that no interest in either the lot upon
which the building is proposed to be constructed or the lot upon which the
owner presently resides shall be sold, leased, or otherwise conveyed separate
or apart from the other for a period of no less than five years from the date
construction of the building is completed.
   I.   Any documentation demonstrating that, to the reasonable satisfaction of
the Board of Adjustment, the proposed building is safe and the surrounding
areas will not be negatively affected.
5.   Application Fee and Other City Costs. The application fee for a Special
Use Permit is subject to the City’s Fees & Fines Resolution. The applicant is
also obligated to pay to the City, within 30 days of billing, all legal,
engineering, or surveying charges the City incurs as a part of their
application process, if applicable.
(Subsection 5 – Ord. 1252 – Jun. 25 Supp.)
6.    Public Notice. A notice relative to an application for a Special Use
Permit pursuant to this Code shall be published in accordance with the
requirements of Section 362.3 of the Code of Iowa. Additionally, within the
same period of time required for publication of notice pursuant to Section
362.3 of the Code of Iowa, the City shall send public hearing notices by
regular mail to owners of property located within 200 feet of the exterior
boundaries of the subject property.
7.    Board Determination. The Board of Adjustment may approve The Special Use
Permit as submitted, or before approval, may require that the applicant modify,
alter, adjust, or amend the proposal as the Board of Adjustment deems necessary
to preserve the intent and purpose of this Code in order to promote the health,
safety, and general welfare of the community.
8.    Waivers: Setbacks, Height, Distances Between Buildings, and Lot Size. If
the applicant can provide evidence or documentation satisfactory to the Board
of Adjustment that such a waiver is justified and will not prejudice adjacent
property owners, the Board of Adjustment may, in its discretion, reduce any of
the minimum or maximum requirements for:
   A.   Lot line setbacks;
   B.   Building height; or
   C.   Distances between structures.
9.    Right of Entry. Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any
provisions of this section, or whenever the City Manager or any authorized
agent have reasonable cause to believe that there exists conditions in any
building or structure in violation of a Special Use Permit issued under this
section, the City Manager and authorized agents may enter such building or
structures at all reasonable times to inspect the same or perform any duty
imposed by this section.
   A.   The City Manager or authorized agent shall first make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner(s) or person in control of the building or structure
to request entry.
   B.   If entry is refused, the City Manager or authorized agent shall have
recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry, including but not
limited to, inspection warrants.
   C.   When the enforcement officer or authorized agent have obtained such
warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or occupant
shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made, to promptly permit entry
for the purpose or inspection or examination pursuant to a Special Use Permit
issued under this section .
10.    Violation of a Special Use Permit. The violation of a Special Use Permit
or any provision of this section shall constitute a violation of the City Code,
thus subjecting the violator to the following penalties:
   A.   Any owner who violates a provision of this section shall be guilty of a
simple misdemeanor.
   B.   Any violation of this section or failure to perform any act or duty or
requirement of this section shall constitute a municipal infraction under
Chapter 3.
   C.   The foregoing provisions concerning enforcement of this section are not
exclusive but are cumulative to any other remedies available under State law or
local regulation.
165.47 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
1.   Home Occupations Inspector. There is hereby created the position of Home
Occupations Inspector, which shall be filled by the Building Official or
another employee designated by the City Manager. The Home Occupations Inspector
shall be authorized to exercise those powers of the City necessary to
administer and enforce this section, including but not limited to the
following:
   A.   The authority to issue a municipal infraction citation or a notice to
abate nuisance for a violation of this section.
   B.   The authority to inspect residential real estate for the enforcement of
this section.
C.   The authority to grant and revoke home occupation permits pursuant to the
provisions of this section.
2.    Permitted Occupations.
   A.   Subject to the requirements of Sections
165.47(3) and
165.47(4), the following home occupations are permitted in any district that
allows residential uses:
      (1)   Telephone, internet, or mail order businesses where products are
shipped directly from an off-site supplier to the customer.
      (2)   Telephone or internet-based customer service, administrative,
clerical, or other work performed by an employee of an off-premises business
pursuant to a remote work arrangement.
      (3)   Sewing and alterations.
      (4)   Small scale production for the purpose of selling products off-
premises.
      (5)   Art studios.
      (6)   Cooking, preserving, or baking for the purpose of selling products
off-premises.
      (7)   Other uses and activities which are incidental to the residential
use of the premises and which are not observable (except for allowed signage)
from neighboring properties.
   B.   Commercial uses involving firearms or fireworks, repair or maintenance
of vehicles, renting of rooms (except as otherwise permitted under this Code),
offices with client visits, or breeding or caring for animals are not
permissible home occupations.
3.    Criteria for All Home Occupations. All permitted home occupations must
comply with the following requirements:
   A.   The home occupation should not alter the normal residential
characteristic of the premises, and there should be no exterior indication of
the home occupation.
   B.   When located in the principal structure, the home occupations shall not
occupy more than 25 percent of the floor area of the home.
   C.   When located in an accessory structure, the home occupation shall not
occupy more than 600 square feet.
   D.   No materials or machinery used in furtherance of the home occupation
may be stored outside the principal or accessory structure, and no repairs
shall be made to equipment outside the principal or accessory structures.
   E.   No noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat, or glare shall be
produced which is detrimental to the character of the neighborhood in which the
home occupation is located.
   F.   The home occupation must not generate vehicular or pedestrian traffic
in excess of that traffic customarily associated with the zone in which it is
located.
   G.   Employment for home occupations shall be limited to persons residing in
the principal structure.
   H.   Home occupations are limited to one operation per lot, and rental
property must have landlord approval prior to operation.
   I.   Spaces for off-street parking and loading shall be provided in
compliance with provisions set forth in Section
165.38, Off-Street Parking Requirements, for any type of home occupation or
commercial activity that would require more than two off-street parking spaces.
   J.   Any sign or display shall be limited to one only and shall not exceed
two square feet in size. It shall carry only the name and occupation of the
occupant of the premises. The sign or display shall be non-lighted and non-
reflective in nature and shall be attached to the dwelling or accessory
building or located within two feet thereof.
   K.   Occasional garage sales are exempt from the requirements of this
section. However, garage sales held for more than three consecutive days or on
more than three occasions at the same property in any 12 - month period are
considered to be home occupations subject to all requirements under this
section.
4.    Permit Required.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry on a home occupation in
the City unless the person has applied for and received a Home Occupation
Permit. Application for a permit may be made in writing on forms furnished by
the Home Occupations Inspector, and shall include the full name of the
applicant, the residential address of the home occupation, the name of any
business entity for which the home occupation is performed, and the nature of
the home occupation. The Home Occupation Inspector shall issue a permit for any
application meeting the requirements of Sections
165.47(2) and
165.47(3). Such permit shall be valid for one year, and is not transferable
between persons or properties.
   B.   Existing Home Occupation Permits will be considered for renewed
approval annually in September. The City will maintain a registry of all
occupations, which shall be published annually on the City's website.
   C.   A Home Occupation Permit may be denied or revoked if the Home
Occupations Inspector finds the home occupation in violation of Section
165.47(3). Upon the denial or revocation of a home occupation permit, the
applicant or permit holder may request a prompt reconsideration hearing before
the Home Occupations Inspector. Such request must be postmarked or delivered
within five days of the date of denial or revocation. The applicant or permit-
holder shall be notified in writing of the time and place of the hearing and
shall have the opportunity to present relevant evidence and argument to the
Home Occupation Inspector. Within 10 days following the hearing, the Home
Occupations Inspector shall issue a written decision either affirming or
reversing the denial and stating the grounds for their decision.
   D.   The applicant or permit-holder may appeal and adverse reconsideration
decision to the Board of Adjustment pursuant to
Chapter 24 and the rules adopted by the Board of Adjustment. The applicant must
file a notice of appeal to the Board of Adjustment with the Clerk within five
days of the Home Occupations Inspector's reconsideration decision.
5.    Existing Home Occupations. Existing home occupations shall be required to
apply for a Home Occupation Permit within six months of the date this section
was adopted.   12 For purposes of this section, existing home occupation
include home occupations in operation and conforming to all applicable
regulations prior to the adoption of this Zoning Code.
6.    Municipal Infraction. Each violation of this section shall create a
municipal infraction, and each day that this section is violated may be counted
as a separate infraction. It shall also be a violation of this section for a
title holder to real estate to knowingly allow a person to use the real estate
for a home occupation in violation of the provisions of this section.
 
Notes
12 EDITOR S NOTE: Ordinance No. 1178, adopting home occupations for the City,
   was passed and adopted on November 16, 2020.
CHAPTER 166
AIRPORT ZONING REGULATIONS
 
166.01 Short Title                       166.06 Variance
166.02 Definitions                       166.07 Judicial Review
166.03 Airport Zones and Airspace Height 166.08 Administrative Agency
Limitation
166.04 Use Restrictions                  166.09 Penalties
166.05 Lighting
 
166.01 SHORT TITLE.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as 'The Maquoketa Municipal
Airport Height Zoning Ordinance.
166.02 DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.    Airport means the Maquoketa Municipal Airport.
2.    Airport elevation means the highest point of an airport's usable landing
area measured in feet above mean sea level, which elevation is established to
be 770 feet.
3.    Airport hazard means any structure or tree or use of land which would
exceed the federal obstruction standards as contained in 14 CFR Sections 77.21,
77.23, and 77.25 as revised March 4, 1972, and which obstruct the airspace
required for the flight of aircraft and landing and takeoff at an airport or is
otherwise hazardous to such landing or taking off of aircraft.
4.    Airport primary surface means a surface longitudinally centered on a
runway. When the runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary
surface extends 200 feet beyond each end of that runway. The width of the
primary surface of a runway will be that width prescribed in each part of the
Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) for the most precise approach existing or
planned for either end of that runway. The elevation of any point on the
primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway
centerline.
5.    Airspace height means that in determining the height limits in all zones
set forth in this chapter and shown on the Zoning Map, the datum shall be mean
sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
6.    Control zone means the airspace extending upward from the surface of the
earth which may include one or more airports and is normally a circular area of
five statute miles in radius, with extensions where necessary to include
instrument approach and departure paths.
7.    Instrument runway means a runway having an existing instrument approach
procedure utilizing air navigation facilities or area type navigation
equipment, for which an instrument approach procedure has been approved or
planned.
8.    Minimum descent altitude means the lowest altitude, expressed in feet
above mean sea level, to which descent is authorized on final approach or
during circle-to-land maneuvering in execution of a standard instrument
approach procedure, where no electronic glide slope is provided.
9.    Minimum enroute altitude means the altitude in effect between radio fixes
which assures acceptable navigational signal coverage and meets obstruction
clearance requirements between those fixes.
10.    Minimum obstruction clearance altitude means the specified altitude in
effect between radio fixes on VOR airways, off-airway routes, or route segments
which meets obstruction clearance requirements for the entire route segment and
which assures acceptable navigational signal coverage only within 22 miles of a
VOR.
11.    Runway means a defined area on an airport prepared for landing and
takeoff of aircraft along its length.
12.    Visual runway means a runway intended solely for the operation of
aircraft using visual approach procedures with no straight-in instrument
approach procedure and no instrument designation indicated on a FAA approved
airport layout plan, a military service approved military airport layout plan,
or by any planning document submitted to the FAA by competent authority.
166.03 AIRPORT ZONES AND AIRSPACE HEIGHT LIMITATION.
1.   In order to carry out the provisions of this section, there are hereby
created and established certain zones which are depicted on the Maquoketa
Municipal Airport Height Zoning Map. A structure located in more than one zone
of the following zones is considered to be only in the zone with the more
restrictive height limitation. The various zones are hereby established and
defined as follows:
   A.   Airport Height Zones:
      (1)    Horizontal zone is the land lying under a horizontal plane 150
feet above the established airport elevation, the perimeter of which is
constructed by:
         a.    Swinging arcs of 5,000 feet radii from the center of each end of
the primary surface of runway(s) 15 and 33, and connecting the adjacent arcs by
lines tangent to those arcs.
         b.    No structure shall exceed 150 feet above the established airport
elevation in the horizontal zone, as depicted on the Maquoketa Municipal
Airport Height Zoning Map.
      (2)    Conical zone is the land lying under a surface extending outward
and upward from the periphery of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20 to 1
for a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet. No structure shall penetrate the
conical surface in the conical zone, as depicted on the Maquoketa Municipal
Airport Height Zoning Map
      (3)    Approach Zone is the land lying under a surface longitudinally
centered on the extended runway centerline and extending outward and upward
from each end of the primary surface (NOTE: An approach surface is applied to
each end of the runway based upon the type of approach available or planned for
that runway end).
          a.    The inner edge of the approach is:
 
                          Runway 15                Runway 33
The inner edge of the     500 feet                 500 feet
approach is
The outer edge of the     1,500 feet               2,000 feet
approach zone is
The approach zone extends 5,000 feet at a slope of 5,000 feet at a slope of 20
for a horizontal distance 20 to 1                  to 1
of
 
         b.    No structure shall exceed the approach surface to any runway, as
depicted on the Maquoketa Municipal Airport Height Zoning Map.
         c.    Transitional Zone: The land lying under those surfaces extending
outward and upward at right angles to the runway centerline and the runway
centerline extended at a slope of 7 to 1 from the sides of the primary surface
and from the sides of the approach surfaces.
         d.    No structure shall exceed the transitional surface, as depicted
on the Maquoketa Municipal Airport Height Zoning Map.
         e.    No structure shall be erected in the County that raises the
published minimum descent altitude for an instrument approach to any runway,
nor shall any structure be erected that causes the minimum obstruction
clearance altitude or minimum enroute altitude to be increased on any federal
airway in the County.
166.04 USE RESTRICTIONS.
No use may be made of land or water within the County or the City in such
manner as to interfere with the operation of any airborne aircraft. The
following special requirements shall apply to each permitted use:
1.    All lights or illumination used in conjunction with street, parking,
signs or use of land and structures shall be arranged and operated in such a
manner that is not misleading or dangerous to aircraft operating from the
airport or in the vicinity thereof.
2.    No operations from any use shall produce smoke, glare, or other visual
hazards within three statute miles of any usable runway of the airport.
3.    No operations from any use in the City or County shall produce electronic
interference with navigation signals or radio communication between the airport
and aircraft.
166.05 LIGHTING.
1.   The owner of any structure over 200 feet above ground level must install
on the structure lighting in accordance with Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA), Advisory Circular 70-7460-ID and amendments.
2.    Additionally, any structure, constructed after the effective date of this
Ordinance and exceeding 949 feet above ground level, must install on that
structure high intensity white obstruction lights in accordance with Chapter 6
of FAA Advisory Circular 7460-ID and amendments.
3.    Any permit or variance granted may be so conditioned as to require the
owner of the structure or growth in question to permit the City, at its own
expense, to install, operate and maintain thereto such markers of lights as may
be necessary to indicate to pilots the presence of an airspace hazard.
166.06 VARIANCE.
Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any structure, or to
permit the growth of any tree, or otherwise use their property in violation of
any section of this Code, may apply to the Board of Adjustment for variance
from such regulations. No application for variance to the requirements of this
Code may be considered by the Board of Adjustment unless a copy of the
application has been submitted to the Maquoketa Airport Commission for their
opinion as to the aeronautical effects of such a variance. If the Maquoketa
City Manager does not respond to the Board of Adjustment within 15 days from
receipt of the copy of the application, the Board may make its decision to
grant or deny the variance.
166.07 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected by any decision of the Board of
Adjustment, may appeal to the Court of Record as provided in Section 414.15 of
the Code of Iowa.
166.08 ADMINISTRATIVE AGENCY.
It shall be the duty of the Maquoketa Airport Commission to administer the
regulation prescribed herein. Applications for permits and variances shall be
made to the Maquoketa Airport Commission upon a form furnished by them.
Applications required by this Code to be submitted to the Administrative Agency
shall be promptly considered and granted or denied. Application for action by
the Board of Adjustment shall be forthwith transmitted by the Maquoketa Airport
Commission.
166.09 PENALTIES.
Each violation of this chapter or of any regulation, order, or ruling
promulgated hereunder shall constitute a municipal infraction, and be
punishable as stated in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinance. Each day a violation continues to exist
shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 170
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
170.01 Short Title                   170.12 Final Plat - Filing - Content and
                                     Attachments
170.02 Purpose                       170.13 Final Plat - Review and Approval
170.03 Application                   170.14 Improvement Guarantees
170.04 Approvals                     170.15 Installation of Improvements
170.05 Definitions                   170.16 Subdivision Design Standards
170.06 Subdivisions Classified       170.17 Blocks and Lots
170.07 Staff Review of Simple        170.18 Streets
Subdivisions
170.08 Planning Conference           170.19 Easements
170.09 Preliminary Plat - Filing -   170.20 Curbs
Content
170.10 Preliminary Plat - Review and 170.21 Sidewalks
Approval
170.11 Commercial or Industrial      170.22 Planned Unit Developments
Subdivisions
 
170.01 SHORT TITLE.
This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as the Subdivision Regulations
of the City of Maquoketa, Iowa.
170.02 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards for the design,
development, and improvements for all new subdivisions and re-subdivisions of
land; to protect existing land uses; to provide for the regulation and control
of the extension of public improvements, public services, and utilities; to
insure that growth occurs in an orderly manner, consistent with the City's
Comprehensive Plan as amended; and to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens; all as authorized by Chapter 354 of the Code
of Iowa, including the purposes set forth in said chapter.
170.03 APPLICATION.
This chapter shall apply to all subdivisions or re-subdivisions which occur on
or after the date of publication of this Code. Any subdivisions or re-
subdivisions which occur prior to that date are governed by the previous
Subdivision Regulations of the City.
170.04 APPROVALS.
Any proposed subdivision or re-subdivision of land as defined in this chapter,
lying within the City limits, or lying within two miles of the City limits,
shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter. No proposed subdivision
plats, whether preliminary or final, shall be recorded as provided in Chapter
354 of the Code of Iowa, until all provisions of Chapters 354 and 355 of the
Code of Iowa, as amended, and this chapter, have been complied with.
1.    No officer, agent, or employee of the City shall take any action to issue
any building permit or permit for any water or sewer connection for any
building or structure constructed or proposed to be constructed on land
subdivided contrary to the provisions of this chapter. No officer, agent, or
employee of the City shall perform, or cause to be performed, any construction
or maintenance upon any area purporting to be a street or public right-of-way
by virtue of being shown on a subdivision plat, and no public funds shall be
spent for such improvements, until such plat shall have been approved and
recorded as required by this chapter.
2.    When a preliminary subdivision plat or a final subdivision plat is
submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission or Council for approval, and
the plat is not approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission or Council, the
resolution of disapproval shall state how the subdivision plat is
objectionable. The Planning and Zoning Commission and Council shall consider
the factors contained in this chapter, the City's Comprehensive Plan, and the
factors set forth in Chapter 354.8 of the Code of Iowa, in considering a
subdivision plat for approval. The Planning and Zoning Commission or Council
shall approve or disapprove a subdivision plat within 60 days from the date of
application for approval of the plat. The Council shall not issue final
approval of a subdivision plat unless the subdivision plat conforms to Sections
354.6, 354.11, and 355.8 of the Code of Iowa. The applicant for approval shall
have the right to appeal set forth in Section 354.10 of the Code of Iowa.
3.    If a proposed subdivision lies outside the City limits but within two
miles of said City limits, the developer shall comply in all respects with this
chapter. All required documents shall be submitted to both the City and either
Jackson County or Clinton County as appropriate for approval. The City shall
apply the standards of this chapter and Chapters 354 and 355 of the Code of
Iowa to such plats.
4.    The City may enter into a Chapter 28E Agreement with Jackson County or
Clinton County to establish mutual standards and conditions for review of
subdivision plats or plats of survey for division or subdivision in areas of
overlapping jurisdiction. In the event such a 28E Agreement is adopted, the
City shall apply the standards and procedures set forth in the 28E Agreement to
such plats rather than the provisions of this Code.
5.    The Council may waive the right to review a subdivision or waive City
standards or conditions for approval of subdivision plats. Such waiver shall be
by resolution, which shall be certified and recorded with the subdivision plat.
The Council may not waive any requirements for subdivision plats contained in
Sections 354.6, 354.11, and 355.8 of the Code of Iowa.
6.    The Council shall not issue final approval of a subdivision plat unless
the subdivision plat conforms with Chapters 354 and 355 of the Code of Iowa as
those chapters may from time to time be amended.
7.    If the subdivision plat and all matters related to final approval conform
to the standards and conditions established by this Code and Chapters 354 and
355 of the Code of Iowa, the Council shall approve the plat by resolution,
which shall be certified and recorded with the plat.
170.05 DEFINITIONS.
The following words and phrases whenever used in this chapter, shall be
construed as defined in this section unless, from the context, a different
meaning is intended or unless different meaning is specifically defined and
more particularly directed to the use of such words or phrases:
1.    Words beginning with A.
   A.    Aliquot part means a fractional part of a section within the United
States public land survey system. Only the fractional parts one-half, one-
quarter, one-half of one-quarter, or one-quarter of one-quarter shall be
considered an aliquot part of a section.
   B.    Alley means a minor way, dedicated to public use, which is based
primarily for vehicular access to the back or the side of properties which
otherwise abut a public street.
   C.    Auditor's plat means a subdivision plat required by either the auditor
or the assessor, prepared by a surveyor under the direction of the auditor.
2.    Words beginning with B.
   A.    Block means the smallest piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded
by public highways, streets, streams, parks, or a combination thereof.
   B.    Building means any structure designed, built, or intended for the
shelter, enclosure or protection of persons, personal property, vehicles, or
animals.
   C.    Building setback line means a line within a lot or parcel of land
designated on the plat of the proposed subdivision, between which line and the
adjacent boundary of the street upon which the lot abuts, the erection of a
building is prohibited.
3.    Words beginning with C.
   A.    City Engineer means a registered professional engineer authorized by
the City to review engineering data outlined in these subdivision regulations.
   B.    City Manager means the City Manager of the City, or their designated
representative.
   C.    Comprehensive Plan means the plan or series of plans made for the
future development of an area within the City or within two miles of the City
limits.
   D.    Conditional approval means the approval given to the layout of streets
and lots in a subdivision set forth in a preliminary plat which forms the basis
for preparation of the final plat.
   E.    Conveyance means an instrument filed with a recorder as evidence of
the transfer of title to land, including any form of deed or contract.
   F.    Cul-de-sac means a minor street having one end open to traffic and
being permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
4.    Words beginning with D.
   A.    Developer means the owner or agent under legal authority of the owner
who undertakes to cause a parcel of land to be designed, constructed, and
recorded as a subdivision.
   B.    Division means dividing a tract or parcel of land into two parcels of
land by conveyance or for tax purposes. The conveyance of an easement, other
than a public highway easement, shall not be considered a division for the
purpose of this chapter.
5.    Words beginning with E.
   A.    Easement means a grant by the property owner to the public, persons,
or a corporation or association, of the use of a parcel of land for a specific
purpose.
6.    Words beginning with F.
   A.    Final plat means a subdivision plat with the attachments required by
Section 354.11 of the Code of Iowa, submitted for approval by the Planning and
Zoning Commission and Council.
   B.    Flood Hazard Area means any area subject to flooding by a one percent
probability flood, otherwise referred to as 100-year flood, as designated by
the Iowa Department of Natural Resources or the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
   C.    Floodway means the channel of a river or stream and those portions of
the floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to carry
and discharge flood waters or flood flows so that confinement of flood flows to
the floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water surface elevation of
the base flood by more than one foot.
   D.    Forty-acre aliquot part shall mean one-quarter of one-quarter of a
section.
   E.    Frontage means all the property on one side of a street between two
intersecting streets (crossing or terminating) measured along the line of the
street, or if the street is dead ended, then all of the property abutting one
side between an intersecting street and the dead-end of the street.
7.    Words beginning with G.
   A.    Government lot means a tract, within a section, which is normally
described by a lot number as represented and identified on the township plat of
the United States public land survey system.
   B.    Grading plan means a drawing of a proposed subdivision on a contour or
topographic map showing existing and proposed contours at a contour interval of
not more than five feet and a scale of not less than 100 feet to the inch.
8.    Words beginning with H.
   A.    Half street means a street having a width less than required by these
subdivision regulations.
   B.    Highway means a right - of - way for vehicular traffic which traverses
a nonurban area and is usually a State or federal numbered route.
9.    Words beginning with I.
   A.    Improvements means changes and additions to land necessary to prepare
it for building sites; including, but not limited to, street surfacing, curb
and gutter, grading, monuments, drainage ways, sanitary sewers, storm sewers,
fire hydrants, water mains, sidewalks, pedestrian ways, recreational trails,
and other public and private works and appurtenances.
   B.    Individual subsurface sewage treatment facility means a sewage
disposal system designed to function on an individual lot basis.
10.    Words beginning with J.
11.    Words beginning with K.
12.    Words beginning with L.
   A.    Land remnant means any portion of a tract of land which cannot be
developed after the tract has been subdivided.
   B.    Lot means a tract of land represented and identified by number or
letter designation on an official plat.
13.    Words beginning with M.
   A.    Maintenance guarantee means a surety bond, cash deposit, irrevocable
letter of credit, escrow account, or certificate of deposit, pledged to the
City in an amount so as to insure that for a period of two years from
acceptance date, the developer shall be responsible to maintain improvements
dedicated to the public in good repair.
   B.    Metes and bounds description means a description of land that uses
distances and angles, uses distances and bearings, or describes the boundaries
of the parcel by reference to physical features of the land.
14.    Words beginning with N.
15.    Words beginning with O.
   A.    Official plat means either an auditor's plat or a subdivision plat
that meets the requirements of this Code and State law, and has been filed for
record in the offices of the recorder, auditor, and assessor.
16.    Words beginning with P.
   A.    Parcel means a part of a tract of land.
   B.    Performance guarantee means a surety bond, cash deposit, irrevocable
letter of credit, escrow account, or certificate of deposit, pledged to the
City in an amount equal to the full cost of the improvements which are required
by this chapter; said cost to be estimated by the City, and said amount being
legally sufficient to secure to the City that the said improvements will be
constructed in accordance with the requirements of this chapter .
   C.    Planning and Zoning Commission means the Planning and Zoning
Commission of the City, as established under the authority of Section 414.6 of
the Code of Iowa, also referred to as the Commission. (See also
Chapter 21)
   D.    Plat of survey means the graphical representation of a survey of one
or more parcels of land, including a complete and accurate description of each
parcel within the plat, prepared by a registered land surveyor.
   E.    Preliminary plat means a plat submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for review in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   F.    Proprietor means a person who has a recorded interest in land,
including a person selling or buying land pursuant to a contract, but excluding
persons holding a mortgage, easement, or lien interest.
   G.    Public improvement means the principal structures, works, component
parts and accessories of any of the following:
      (1)   Sanitary, storm, and combined sewers;
      (2)   Drainage conduits, channels, and levees;
      (3)   Street grading, paving, graveling, macadamizing, curbing,
guttering, and surfacing with oil, oil and gravel, or chloride;
      (4)   Street lighting fixtures, connections, and facilities;
      (5)   Sewage pumping stations, and disposal and treatment plants;
      (6)   Underground gas, water, heating, sewer, and electrical connections
located in streets for private property;
      (7)   Sidewalks and pedestrian underpasses or overpasses;
      (8)   Drives and driveway approaches located within the public right-of-
way;
      (9)   Waterworks, water mains, and extensions;
      (10)   Traffic-control devices, fixtures, connections, and facilities.
17.    Words beginning with Q.
18.    Words beginning with R.
   A.    Re-plat or re-subdivision means a subdivision of land which has been
previously platted or subdivided into lots or parcels of land. It may include
all or any part of a previous subdivision or plat.
   B.    Reserve strip means a narrow parcel of land between a street adjacent
to the property line and the adjacent property, the strip being retained in
private ownership to prevent access of neighboring property to an improved and
dedicated street.
19.    Words beginning with S.
   A.    Sketch plan means a sketch to designate the scale of a proposed layout
or alternate layout of lots, blocks, and public ways, for the purpose of
facilitating discussions and review between a developer and City officials
prior to the filing of a preliminary plat.
   B.    Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) means the land within a community
subject to the base flood. This land is identified on the community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map as Zone A, A1-30, AE, AH, AO, AR, or A99.
   C.    Street means property, dedicated to the public, not an alley, intended
for vehicular traffic. It may provide for vehicular and pedestrian access to
properties adjacent to it, and may also provide space for the location of
utilities, either above or below ground.
   D.    Street pavement width means the horizontal distance of the roadway
measured from back-of-curb to back-of-curb.
   E.    Subdivision means one of the following:
      (1)   A tract of land divided into two or more lots;
      (2)   A plat establishing or dedicating a street, highway, or alley,
regardless of the number of lots created;
      (3)   A re-platting or re-subdividing of a parcel of land previously
subdivided; however, the sale or exchange of small parcels of land to or
between adjoining property owners where such sale or exchange does not create
additional lots shall not be considered as a subdivision of land;
   F.    Subdivision plat means the graphical representation of the subdivision
of land, prepared by a registered land surveyor, having a number or letter
designation for each lot within the plat and a succinct name or title that is
unique for the county where the land is located.
   G.    Surveyor means a registered land surveyor who engages in the practice
of land surveying pursuant to Chapter 542B of the Code of Iowa .
20.    Words beginning with T.
   A.    Tract means an aliquot part of a section, a lot within an official
plat, or a government lot.
21.    Words beginning with U.
   A.    Utilities means the systems for the distribution or collection of
water, gas, wastewater, stormwater, electricity, and telephone and cable
television service
22.    Words beginning with V.
23.    Words beginning with W.
24.    Words beginning with X.
25.    Words beginning with Y.
26.    Words beginning with Z.
170.06 SUBDIVISIONS CLASSIFIED.
A subdivision shall be classified as a simple, minor, or major subdivision as
set forth in these subdivision regulations.
1.    Simple Subdivision. Any subdivision in which no new streets, public or
private, are proposed, which does not require the construction of any public
improvements, where no floodplains or wetlands exist, and which contains fewer
than three lots, shall be classified as a simple subdivision.
2.    Minor Subdivision. Any subdivision in which no new streets, public or
private, are proposed, which does not require the construction of any public
improvements, where no floodplains or wetlands exist, and which contains three
or more lots, shall be classified as a minor subdivision.
3.    Major Subdivision. Any subdivision which is not a simple subdivision, or
a minor subdivision shall be classified as a major subdivision.
170.07 STAFF REVIEW OF SIMPLE SUBDIVISIONS.
Simple subdivisions shall be reviewed by the City Manager, City Engineer, and
City Attorney to determine compliance with this chapter and State law. Review
by the Planning and Zoning Commission shall not be required. The City Manager
may set conditions to provide that the division meets the requirements of this
Code. A simple subdivision plat shall be a plat of survey and no final plat
shall be required. Plat attachments are not required for a simple subdivision.
No plat of a simple subdivision shall be recorded unless the City Manager has
approved the plat.
170.08 PLANNING CONFERENCE.
1.   A planning conference is mandatory for a major subdivision. A planning
conference for a minor subdivision or a simple subdivision shall only be held
if requested by the City, the developer or the developer's engineer.
2.    The planning conference shall be informal and shall be for the purpose of
determining the general requirements to be included in the subdivision.
Participants may include the developer, their engineer, their surveyor, the
City Manager, the City Engineer, and any other City official deemed by the City
Manager to have input or an interest in the layout or facilities to be
furnished in the subdivision. Any of the above participants may designate a
representative to confer on their behalf.
3.    The time and place of the planning conference shall be set by the City
Manager and all parties shall be notified.
4.    The developer shall furnish a sketch plan of the proposed subdivision to
the City Manager at least five days prior to the planning conference.
5.    The proceedings of the planning conference shall be informal. During the
conference the City Manager shall strive to assist the developer in the
subdivision process. Any tentative agreements reached between the City and the
developer during the planning conference shall be subject to ratification by
the Planning and Zoning Commission or Council as appropriate.
170.09 PRELIMINARY PLAT - FILING - CONTENT.
1.    The developer shall file a preliminary plat for any major subdivision.
The City Manager, in their discretion, may require the filing of a preliminary
plat for a minor subdivision. No preliminary plat shall be required for a
simple subdivision.
2.    The preliminary plat shall be conspicuously marked as such and shall be
at a scale of not less than 100 = 1, and shall include the following
information:
   A.   The subdivision name, scale, north arrow, and date;
   B.   The name and address of the proprietor and developer, and the name and
address of the person or firm preparing the preliminary plat;
   C.   A key map showing the general location of the subdivision in relation
to surrounding streets and development;
   D.   All adjacent streets and subdivisions and the names of all the owners
of record of all adjacent property;
   E.   The legal description of the property included in the proposed
subdivision;
   F.   The approximate total area of the proposed subdivision and the
approximate total area proposed for streets, highways, or alleys;
   G.   The zoning of the proposed subdivision and adjoining properties;
   H.   The layout, numbers, approximate dimensions and area of proposed lots;
   I.   The layout, numbers or letters, and proposed dimensions of any land
remnant included within the subdivision;
   J.   The existing and proposed topography of the subdivision showing
contours at appropriate vertical intervals not exceeding four vertical feet;
   K.   The location of all existing easements, buildings, watercourses, tree
masses, and other features located within 100 feet of the subdivision,
including floodways and flood hazard areas;
   L.   The location, width, dimensions, approximate grades, and proposed names
of all public streets proposed to be dedicated for public use and of all
private streets proposed to be provided for by perpetual easement;
   M.   The location of present and proposed utility systems and other
facilities located within 100 feet of the plat;
   N.   Proposed perpetual easements, showing locations, widths and purposes;
   O.   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for schools,
parks, playgrounds, or public or semi-public purposes;
   P.   A preliminary grading and erosion control plan;
   Q.   All front building setback lines and side building setback lines on
intersecting street sides of corner lots;
   R.   Typical cross-sections of the proposed streets showing roadway
location, type of curb and gutter, base and surface course materials to be
used, and sidewalks to be installed;
   S.   Construction plans for all public improvements to be constructed by the
developer;
   T.   A complete listing of all existing covenants which apply to the land to
be subdivided;
   U.   Any other pertinent information as determined by the City Manager.
170.10 PRELIMINARY PLAT - REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
1.    Developer shall file 10 copies of the preliminary plat with the City
Manager and shall pay the required preliminary plat review fee as established
by this Code.
2.    The preliminary plat shall be filed with the City Manager at least 30
days prior to the next scheduled regular meeting of the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
3.    Two copies of the preliminary plat shall be provided to the City Engineer
for review, who shall report in writing to the City Manager within 10 days with
their comments. One copy of the preliminary plat shall be provided to the City
Attorney for review, who shall report in writing to the City Manager within 10
days with their comments.
4.    The City Manager shall prepare a report for the Planning and Zoning
Commission at least 10 days prior to the meeting at which the preliminary plat
will be considered.
5.    The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold a public meeting to
consider and study the preliminary plat. The Planning and Zoning Commission
shall determine if it complies with the requirements of this chapter. The
Commission shall receive and review the reports of the City Manager, City
Engineer, and City Attorney. The Commission shall consider the City's
Comprehensive Plan, the City's applicable standards and ordinances, and the
possible burden on public improvements. The Commission shall balance the
interests of the proprietor, future purchasers, and the public interest in the
subdivision when reviewing the proposed subdivision and when requiring the
installation of public improvements in conjunction with approval of the
subdivision. The Commission may table the preliminary plat if necessary to
obtain additional information from the developer or City staff.
6.    The Planning and Zoning Commission shall, within 60 days of the filing of
the preliminary plat with the City Manager and payment of all required fees,
either approve or disapprove the preliminary plat. The Commission may, as a
requirement of approving the preliminary plat, impose requirements for
approval. The Commission's approval or disapproval shall be in writing and
shall be delivered to the City Manager, City Engineer, City Attorney, and
developer. The Commission's approval of the preliminary plat shall be a
conditional approval.
7.    No Council review of a preliminary plat is required.
8.    The approval of a preliminary plat by the Commission shall remain in
effect for a period of one year, unless extended by the Council as provided in
Section
170.12(1). If the developer does not file a final plat within that time, all
previous actions by the City regarding the preliminary plat are null and void.
9.    The Planning and Zoning Commission's approval of the preliminary plat
shall not constitute authority to sell lots, record the plat, advertise the
future, or conditional sale of lots based upon the preliminary plat, nor
authority to construct permanent buildings, structures, or improvements in
reliance upon the layout contained in the preliminary plat.
10.    If the developer makes substantial alterations to the layout of the
subdivision after the conditional approval of the preliminary plat, such
alterations shall be subject to review and approval by the Commission.
170.11 COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
1.   The street and lot layout of a subdivision for commercial or industrial
purposes shall be appropriate to the land use for which the subdivision is
proposed. The plat shall conform to the City's Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Code,
and all other ordinances and regulations of the City.
2.    In addition to the principles and standards of this chapter, which are
applicable to all subdivisions, the developer of a commercial or industrial
subdivision shall demonstrate to the City that the street, parcel, and block
pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the uses anticipated and takes into
account other uses in the vicinity. The following principles and standards
shall apply:
   A.   Proposed commercial or industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and
dimensions to the type of development anticipated;
   B.   Street right-of-way and surface shall be adequate to accommodate the
type and volume of traffic anticipated to be carried thereon;
   C.   Special requirements may be imposed by the City with respect to the
installation of utilities;
   D.   Special requirements may be imposed by the City with respect to street,
curb and gutter, and sidewalk design and construction;
   E.   The developer shall be required to protect adjacent residential areas
from potential nuisances from the proposed commercial or industrial
development, including, but not limited to, setbacks or buffer strips,
barriers, or landscaping;
   F.   Streets designed to carry nonresidential traffic, such as truck
traffic, shall not be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or
potential residential areas, or connected to streets intended for predominantly
residential traffic;
   G.   Adequate access shall be provided to all lots and adequate provisions
for off-street parking and deliveries shall be provided;
   H.   Developers of commercial or industrial subdivisions shall conform and
comply with all requirements of this chapter .
170.12 FINAL PLAT - FILING - CONTENT AND ATTACHMENTS.
1.   The developer shall file a final plat with the City Manager within one
year of the Planning and Zoning Commission's approval of the preliminary plat.
In the event the developer does not file a final plat within one year of
approval of the preliminary plat, the Planning and Zoning Commission's approval
of the preliminary plat is void and of no effect. The Council may extend the
deadline to file a final plat for one additional year if the developer applies
in writing for an extension within the original one-year period. The City
Manager, in their discretion, may require the developer to file a revised
preliminary plat prior to submission of a final plat.
2.    Plats of survey shall contain the information and be submitted in the
form required by Section 355.7 of the Code of Iowa.
3.    Subdivision plats shall contain the information and be submitted in the
form required by Sections 354.6 and 355.8 of the Code of Iowa. In addition, a
subdivision plat shall be accompanied by the following documents:
   A.   A statement by the proprietors and their spouses, if any, that the plat
is prepared with their free consent and in accordance with their desire, signed
and acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the acknowledgment of
deeds. The statement by the proprietors may also include a dedication to the
public of all lands within the plat that are designated for streets, alleys,
parks, open areas, school property, or other public use, if the dedication is
approved by the governing body;
   B.   A statement from the mortgage holders or lienholders, if any, that the
plat is prepared with their free consent and in accordance with their desire,
signed and acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the acknowledgment
of deeds. An affidavit and bond as provided for in Section 354.12 of the Code
of Iowa, may be recorded in lieu of the consent of the mortgagee or lienholder.
When a mortgagee or lienholder consents to the subdivision, a release of
mortgage or lien shall be recorded for any areas conveyed to the governing body
or dedicated to the public;
   C.   An opinion by an attorney-at-law who has examined the abstract of title
of the land being platted. The opinion shall state the names of the proprietors
and holders of mortgages, liens, or other encumbrances on the land being
platted and shall note the encumbrances, along with any bonds securing the
encumbrances. Utility easements shall not be construed to be encumbrances for
the purpose of this section;
   D.   A certified resolution by the Planning and Zoning Commission and
Council either approving the subdivision or waiving the right to review;
   E.   A certificate of the County Treasurer that the land is free from
certified taxes and certified special assessments or that the land is free from
certified taxes and that the certified special assessments are secured by bond
in compliance with Section 354.12 of the Code of Iowa;
   F.   A complete set of restrictive covenants proposed for the subdivision;
   G.   A subdivision plat which includes no land set apart for streets,
alleys, parks, open areas, school property, or public use other than utility
easements, shall be accompanied by the documents listed in Paragraphs A through
D, and a certificate of the County Treasurer that the land is free from
certified taxes other than certified special assessments.
4.    Ten copies of the final plat, together with all required attachments,
shall be submitted to the City Manager together with any final plat review fee
as established by this chapter. In addition, by the act of filing the final
plat, the developer agrees to pay to City within 30 days of billing, all legal
and engineering charges the City incurs for the review of the proposed final
plat, attachments, final improvement plans and specifications, and observations
during the construction of the improvements.
5.    The final plat shall be filed with the City Manager at least 30 days
prior to the next scheduled regular meeting of the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
170.13 FINAL PLAT - REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
1.   Two copies of the final plat and attachments shall be provided to the City
Engineer for review, who shall report in writing to the City Manager within 10
days with their comments. One copy of the final plat with attachments shall be
provided to the City Attorney for review, who shall report in writing to the
City Manager within 10 days with their comments.
2.    The City Manager shall prepare a report for the Planning and Zoning
Commission at least 10 days prior to the meeting at which the final plat will
be considered.
3.    The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold a public meeting to
consider and study the final plat. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall
determine if it complies with the requirements of this chapter. The Commission
shall receive and review the reports of the City Manager, City Engineer, and
City Attorney. The Commission shall consider the City's Comprehensive Plan, the
City's applicable standards and ordinances, and the possible burden on public
improvements. The Commission shall balance the interests of the proprietor,
future purchasers, and the public interest in the subdivision when reviewing
the proposed subdivision and when requiring the installation of public
improvements in conjunction with approval of the subdivision. The Commission
may table the final plat, if necessary, to obtain additional information from
the developer or City staff.
4.    The Planning and Zoning Commission shall, within 30 days of the filing of
the final plat with the City Manager and payment of all required fees, either
approve or disapprove the final plat by resolution. The Commission may, as a
requirement of approving the final plat, impose requirements for approval. The
Commission's resolution shall be delivered to the City Manager, City Engineer,
City Attorney, and developer.
5.   
The Council shall consider the final plat and the resolution of the planning and Zoning
Commission within 30 days of the resolution of the Planning and Zoning
Commission.  If the City Council finds that the plat has been prepared in
compliance with the regulations of this chapter, Chapters 354 and 355 of the
Code of Iowa, and in substantial compliance with the preliminary plat, where
required, such final plat shall be approved by resolution.  In the event the
final plat is not approved, the minutes shall set forth the reasons for the
denial, including how the final plat varies from this chapter, Chapters 354 and
355 of the Code of Iowa, or the preliminary plat.
6.    One certified copy of the resolution of the Planning and Zoning
Commission and one certified copy of the resolution of the Council shall be
provided to the developer. The developer shall file the final plat and all
required attachments with the Recorder as required by Section 354.18 of the
Code of Iowa. The final plat shall be recorded within 60 days of approval by
the Council.
170.14 IMPROVEMENT GUARANTEES.
1.   Before the recording of the final plat, or as a condition of approval of
the final plat, the Planning and Zoning Commission or the Council may require
and shall accept in accordance with the City standards adopted by ordinance the
following guarantees:
   A.   The furnishing of a performance guarantee in an amount not less than
110 percent of the cost of installation for public improvements; and
   B.   Provision for a maintenance guarantee for a period of two years after
final acceptance of the improvement.
2.    The time allowed for installation of the improvements for which the
performance guarantee has been provided may be extended by the Council by
resolution.
3.    Upon completion of all required improvements, the developer shall notify
the City Manager, in writing, of the completion of the improvements. The City
Engineer shall inspect all improvements of which such notice has been given and
shall file a report, in writing, with the City Manager and developer,
indicating either approval or rejection of such improvements with a statement
of reasons for any rejection.
4.    The Council shall accept the subdivision improvements by resolution upon:
   A.   The developer's completion of all required improvements and the
notification to the City Manager in writing required above;
   B.   Submission to the City Manager evidence of payment in full for all work
performed on the public improvements;
   C.   Submission of As Built Drawings prepared by the registered professional
engineer who prepared the improvement plans, and a statement from the engineer
that all construction has been completed in accordance with the engineering
plans and specifications approved by the City and the requirements of all
ordinances and regulations of the City;
   D.   A maintenance guarantee as required by this chapter;
   E.   The City Engineer's report that the subdivision improvements have been
constructed in accordance with the approved final plat and the regulations of
the City;
   F.   Developer's payment to City of all fees and charges for plat review,
legal review, and engineering review and services.
5.    Performance and maintenance guarantees may be provided by a variety of
means, subject to the approval of the Council, including, but not limited to,
the following:
   A.   Surety Bond. The developer may obtain a surety bond from a surety
bonding company authorized to do business in the State; or
   B.   Letter of Credit. The developer may provide an irrevocable letter of
credit from a financial institution acceptable to the City; or
   C.   Escrow Account. The developer may deposit cash, or cash equivalent,
either with the City, or with a financial institution acceptable to the City,
pursuant to an escrow agreement acceptable to the City; or
   D.   Certificate of Deposit. The developer may deposit a Certificate of
Deposit in the name of the City with a financial institution acceptable to the
City.
170.15 INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
1.   Public improvements, including streets, sanitary sewers, storm sewers,
water mains, street lighting, street trees, and sidewalks shall be installed in
accordance with the City standards.
2.    Utilities shall generally be located within the right-of-way on both
sides of and parallel to the street, in accordance with the City standards.
3.    All developers shall provide a plan to connect the development to the
public water supply system, public storm sewer system and public sanitary sewer
system where required by the City Code or the City standards.
4.    Preliminary and final grading and erosion control plans shall comply with
the City Code and the City standards.
170.16 SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS.
1.   The design of the subdivision shall be in conformance with the
Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Code, and City standards.
2.    To the maximum extent practicable, the subdivision shall be designed to
preserve the natural features of the site, to avoid areas of environmental
sensitivity, and to minimize the negative impacts and alteration of the natural
features.
3.    The subdivision shall be laid out to avoid adversely affecting
groundwater and aquifer recharge; to reduce cut and fill; to avoid unnecessary
impervious cover; to prevent flooding; to provide adequate access to lots and
sites; and to mitigate adverse effects of shadow, noise, odor, traffic,
drainage, and utilities on neighboring properties.
4.    The subdivision shall be laid out to create lots which provide sufficient
area for development outside utility easements. No buildings, fill, or grading
shall occur within the utility easements without approval of the City.
170.17 BLOCKS AND LOTS.
1.   All blocks and lots shall be numbered systematically for identification.
2.    The minimum area and dimensions for lots shall conform to the applicable
requirements of the area regulations of the Zoning Code. All lots shall front
on a public street or an approved private street as permitted in the Zoning
Code. Lots with double frontages shall not be permitted unless one frontage is
an arterial street without access rights. Triangular lots shall be avoided
whenever possible.
3.    In so far as practical, the side lot lines shall be perpendicular to the
street on which the lot fronts.
4.    In cases where irregularity of ownership or street lines would produce
remnant lots less than the minimum area required by the Zoning Code, such area
shall be added to adjoining lots.
170.18 STREETS.
1.   The arrangement of arterial and collector streets shall conform to the
Comprehensive Plan. For streets not shown in the Comprehensive Plan, the
arrangement shall provide for the appropriate extension of existing streets.
2.    Right-of-Way.
   A.   The right-of-way shall be measured from lot line to lot line and shall
be sufficiently wide to contain the street pavement, curbs, shoulders,
sidewalks, utilities, street lighting, and street trees placed within the
right-of-way;
   B.   The right-of-way width of a new street that is a continuation of an
existing street shall, in no case, be continued at a width less than that of
the existing street. The right-of-way width shall vary with street
classification according to the City standards;
   C.   Dedication of half-streets (right-of-way) is discouraged but may be
approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission and Council to serve the public
interest. Lots abutting on such right-of-way shall be non-buildable until the
remainder of the street is dedicated to the public.
3.    Street classification.
   A.   Streets shall be classified by the City Engineer as arterial,
collector, local, or alley. The street hierarchy shall be defined by the City
Engineer based on road function and average daily traffic in accordance with
the City standards.
   B.   Each street shall be classified and designed for its entire length to
meet the standards for one of the street types defined in the City standards.
   C.   The developer shall demonstrate to the Planning and Zoning Commission's
and Council's satisfaction that the distribution of traffic to the proposed
street system will not exceed the requirements set forth in the City standards.
4.    Street Width. Street width shall consider possible limitations imposed by
sight distances, climate, terrain, and maintenance needs. To minimize street
costs, the minimum width assuring satisfaction of needs shall be selected.
Street widths for each street classification shall conform to the City
standards.
5.    Pavement Standards. Street pavement thickness shall vary by street
classification, subgrade properties, and pavement type as specified in the City
standards.
6.    Street Alignment. Arterial and collector streets shall be continued in as
direct an alignment as topography and other conditions permit. Local streets
shall conform to the prevailing topography of the subdivision.
7.    Street Grades. Street grades shall be within the City standards.
8.    Names of Streets. Streets that are aligned with existing or platted
streets, or essentially so aligned, shall bear the names of the existing
streets. Names for new streets shall not duplicate in spelling, nor sound
phonetically similar to existing street names in the City. Street names shall
be approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission and the Council.
9.    Reserve Strips. No privately owned reserve strip, except open space
proposed to be deeded to the City or to a homeowner's association within the
subdivision, shall be permitted which controls access to any part of the
subdivision or to any other parcel of land from any street, or from any land
dedicated to public use, or which may be so dedicated.
10.    Streets - Access to Seventeenth Street and Carlisle Street in the City
is hereafter limited to the driveways and field entrances existing at the
passage of this Code. Such accesses to Seventeenth Street are identified by
these station coordinates in the plans and specifications for the paving of
Seventeenth Street as approved by the Council on October 5, 2011:
   A.   Field Entrance at Station 5 + 25 feet, south side .
   B.   Field Entrance at Station 9 + 45 feet, south side .
   C.   Field Entrance at Station 10 + 46 feet, north side .
   D.   Gravel Driveway at Station 12 + 70 feet, north side .
   E.   Gravel Driveway at Station 14 + 30 feet, north side .
   F.   Any property owner of abutting property requesting additional access to
Seventeenth Street and Carlisle Drive shall be required to have their property
annexed to the City.
170.19 EASEMENTS.
Easements shall be provided as determined necessary for public utility
requirements. Public utility easements shall measure at least 10 feet on either
side of the utility line and may vary as needed. Storm sewer easements,
sanitary sewer easements and water main easements shall be at least 20 feet in
width.
170.20 CURBS.
1.   Curb requirements and construction shall be in accordance with the City
standards.
2.    Where curbing is not required, as in planned developments or within two
miles of the City limits, edge definition and stabilization shall be furnished
as recommended by the City Engineer. Shoulders and swales shall be reviewed on
a case-by-case basis with the City Engineer.
3.    Curbing shall be designed to provide a ramp for wheelchairs and
handicapped access as required by the Code of Iowa and the City standards.
170.21 SIDEWALKS.
1.   Sidewalks shall be required on all public street frontages and shall be
constructed in accordance with the City standards. (See also
Chapter 136)
2.    Sidewalks shall be placed four feet behind the curb parallel to the
street, unless an exception has been permitted by the City Engineer to preserve
topographical or natural features or to provide visual interest, or unless the
developer shows that an alternative pedestrian system provides safe and
convenient circulation.
170.22 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
1.   A Planned Unit Development (PUD) is a subdivision process established to
allow variation from traditional development standards identified in this
chapter. The process is intended to allow flexibility in the development
process in exchange for creative design alternatives, greater variety and
innovation in land uses and structural appearances, larger expanses of parks
and open spaces, more extensive landscaping, and higher protection of natural
features and unique resources.
2.    A PUD shall not be construed solely as a mechanism to waive requirements
of this chapter. A PUD must be determined to be in the interest of and to
protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the public. A PUD must be
consistent with the Comprehensive Plan and the general intent of this chapter.
3.    A PUD may only consist of properties that contain either R-1 or R-
2 zoning classifications and property uses, or both.
4.    A PUD shall have a common open space, accessible to all lots or units,
equal to a minimum of 25 percent of the gross area of the development site. No
streets, driveways, or parking areas may be included as part of the required
open space. Preservation, maintenance, and ownership of required open space
with a PUD shall be accomplished by:
   A.   Dedication of the land as a public park or parkway system, if accepted
as such by the City; or
   B.   Establishment of a property owners or homeowners association, with
bylaws or regulations governing preservation, maintenance, and ownership of the
open space.
5.    The PUD process may be used to allow infill development or development of
smaller parcels contiguous with existing developed areas of the City, where it
may be appropriate to match existing lot and block patterns, street corridors,
or other existing conditions. In instances of infill development, particularly
smaller parcels, creative design emphasis shall be placed on architectural
controls, landscaping, and neighborhood compatibility, rather than subdivision
design or the creation of large open spaces or common areas.
6.    The PUD process is not intended to allow increases in development
density. Allowable density shall be based upon a concept development layout
using conventional land area requirements for each proposed use. Dimensional
variations for a resulting PUD may include deviation from the conventional
standards: lot width, lot depth, lot area, street setback (provided no required
parking areas encroach on public right-of-way, public utilities, or within a
private street or access area), setback requirements, or street right-of-way
width.
7.    The PUD process and the unique features of a proposed development may
require that specifications and standards for streets, utilities, public
facilities, and subdivisions may be subject to modification. The Council may
approve streets, utilities, public facilities, and subdivisions that are not in
conformance with City standards if it finds that strict adherence to such
standards or requirements is not required and so long as the health, safety,
and general welfare of residents of the PUD, the surrounding area, and the City
as a whole, are not compromised.
8.    A planning conference and a sketch plan is required for a proposed PUD.
The sketch plan shall identify unique conditions that warrant consideration of
a PUD process, shall illustrate the density of the development by conventional
development standards, and shall include a description and illustration of the
dimensional variations that are requested and any special design features and
innovations of the PUD.
The process to review and approve a PUD shall be comparable to the preliminary
and final platting process and shall include all platting documentation in
addition to PUD documentation.
9.    A preliminary plat is required following review of the sketch plan by the
City. A preliminary plat shall illustrate the conceptual development patterns
for the entire site controlled by the developer. The preliminary plat shall
include all information required by this chapter for subdivisions. In addition,
the developer shall file with the preliminary plat:
   A.   A statement of the rationale for utilizing the PUD process;
   B.   Identification of the City standards or ordinances which may be subject
to waiver or variation;
   C.   The special features of the development which qualify it as a PUD;
   D.   A written narrative of the proposed development; and
   E.   Calculations showing that the minimum required open spaces have been
designated and set aside.
10.    A final plat must be prepared, consistent with the conditions of the
preliminary plat, for review and approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission
and the Council. The process for approving a final plat shall be the same as
the process for approval of a final subdivision plat. The final plat must
include the entire site controlled by the developer and shall include:
   A.   The zoning classification requested.
   B.   Site plans illustrating lot dimensions, minimum structure setbacks,
easements, parks, trails, sidewalks, common open spaces, preservation areas,
parking configurations, and landscaping.
   C.   The aggregate area of private lots and area of common open space stated
as percentages of the total area within the PUD.
   D.   Preliminary architectural styles for each building type, including, but
not limited to, floor plans, unit relationships, and accessory uses.
   E.   The construction and occupancy schedules of each phase of the
development.
   F.   Covenants, restrictions, and financial assurances required for the
maintenance and operation of the attached residential units, common areas,
permanent open spaces, joint facilities, and private streets (if permitted).
11.    Unless waived by the Council, a developer shall execute a development
agreement containing the developer's obligations under the approved final plat.
 
