CODE OF ORDINANCES
OF
MARION COUNTY, IOWA
Adopted September 9, 2025, by Ordinance No. 2025-8
 
Prepared By:   Local Government Professional Services, Inc.
DBA Iowa Codification
P. O. Box 244
114 E 5 th Street
Storm Lake, Iowa 50588
(641) 355-4072
www.sc-ic.com
SUPPLEMENT RECORD
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date Subject
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date    Subject
Sep-25    55.06                   2025-7   8-26-25 Rezoning from A-1 to M-1
                                  2025-8   9-9-25  Adoption of Code of
                                                   Ordinances
 
CHAPTER 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES
 
1.01 Title                  1.07 Altering Code
1.02 Definitions            1.08 Severability
1.03 Rules of Construction  1.09 Standard Penalty
1.04 Extension of Authority 1.10 UCC Fee
1.05 Amendments             1.11 County Infractions
1.06 Catchlines and Notes
 
1.01 TITLE.
   This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the Code of
Ordinances of Marion County, Iowa.
1.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Where words and phrases used in this Code of Ordinances are defined in the
Code of Iowa, such definitions apply to their use in this Code of Ordinances
unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the
Board of Supervisors or repugnant to the context of the provision. Other words
and phrases used herein have the following meanings, unless specifically
defined otherwise in another portion of this Code of Ordinances or unless such
construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Board of
Supervisors or repugnant to the context of the provision:
   1.   “Amendment” means a revision or repeal of an existing ordinance or code
of ordinances.
   2.   “Auditor” means the County Auditor of Marion County, Iowa.
   3.   “Assessor” means the County Assessor of Marion County, Iowa.
   4.   “Board of Health” means the Board of Health of Marion County, Iowa.
   5.   “Board of Supervisors” means the County Board of Supervisors of Marion
County, Iowa.
   6.   “Code” means the specific chapter of this Code of Ordinances in which a
specific subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such as the
Building Code or a standard code adopted by reference).
   7.   “Code of Ordinances” means the Code of Ordinances of Marion County,
Iowa.
   8.   “County” means Marion County, Iowa.
   9.   “County Attorney” means the Marion County Attorney.
   10.   “County civil infraction” means a violation of a County ordinance
which provides for a civil penalty as authorized by Section 331.307 of the Code
of Iowa.
   11.   “County Engineer” means the Marion County Engineer.
   12.   “May” confers a power.
   13.   “Measure” means an ordinance, amendment, resolution, or motion.
   14.   “Motion” means a statement of policy or an order for actions to be
taken. A “motion” is a proposal made to evoke action on the part of the Board
of Supervisors, and if adopted, becomes the will and a resolution of the Board.
   15.   “MPH” means miles per hour.
   16.   “Must” states a requirement.
   17.   “Oath” means an affirmation in all cases in which by law an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words
“affirm” and “affirmed” are equivalent to the words “swear” and “sworn.”
   18.   “Occupant” or “tenant,” applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
   19.   “Ordinances” means the ordinances of the County, as embodied in this
Code of Ordinances, ordinances not repealed by the ordinance adopting this Code
of Ordinances, and those enacted hereafter.
   20.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust, or other
legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.
   21.   “Preceding” and “following” mean the next before and the next after,
respectively.
   22.   “Property” includes real property and tangible and intangible personal
property unless clearly indicated otherwise.
   23.   “Property owner” means a person owning private property in the County
as shown by the County Auditor’s plats of the County.
   24.   “Public place” includes in its meaning (but is not restricted to) any
County-owned open place, such as parks and squares.
   25.   “Public property” means any and all property owned by the County or
held in the name of the County by any of the departments, commissions, or
agencies within the County government.
   26.   “Public way” includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.
   27.   “Recorder” means the County Recorder of Marion County, Iowa.
   28.   “Resolution” means a statement of policy or an order for action to be
taken. A “resolution” is not a local law but merely the form in which the Board
of Supervisors expresses an opinion or will as to some given matter or thing
and is only to have a temporary effect. A “resolution” may be used to govern
the procedures of the Board in the case of their ministerial functions and may
direct performance.
   29.   “Shall” imposes a duty.
   30.   “Sheriff” means the Marion County Sheriff.
   31.   “State” means the State of Iowa.
   32.   “Statutes” or “laws” means the latest edition of the Code of Iowa, as
amended.
   33.   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
   34.   
“Treasurer” means the County Treasurer of Marion County, Iowa.
   Words that are not defined in this Code of Ordinances or by the Code of Iowa
have their ordinary meaning unless such construction would be inconsistent with
the manifest intent of the Board of Supervisors, or repugnant to the context of
the provision.
1.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the rules of statutory
construction as set forth in Chapter 4 of the Code of Iowa shall be utilized to
ascertain the intent of the Board of Supervisors with the understanding that
the term “statute” as used therein will be deemed to be synonymous with the
term “ordinance” when applied to this Code of Ordinances.
1.04 EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
   Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this Code of Ordinances, the provision shall be construed as
authorizing performance by a regular assistant, subordinate, or a duly
authorized designee of said officer or employee.
1.05 AMENDMENTS.
   All ordinances which amend, repeal, or in any manner affect this Code of
Ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, subsection, or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the County.
1.06 CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of the Code of Ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section, and subsection), editor’s notes, cross references
and State law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself,
contained in the Code of Ordinances, do not constitute any part of the law, and
are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement, or clarify the contents
of a section.
1.07 ALTERING CODE.
   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend by additions
or deletions, any part or portion of the Code of Ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the Code of
Ordinances in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the County to
be misrepresented thereby.
1.08 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, provision, or part of the Code of Ordinances is adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity of
the Code of Ordinances as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof
not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
1.09 STANDARD PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this Code of Ordinances for
violation of any particular provision, section, or chapter, any person failing
to perform a duty required by this Code of Ordinances or otherwise violating
any provision of this Code of Ordinances or any rule or regulation adopted
herein by reference shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of at least
$105.00 but not to exceed $855.00.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 331.302(2))
1.10 UCC FEE.
   The fee for a Uniform Commercial Code information request is $5.00 for each
debtor name being requested, if the request form is supplied, and $6.00 for
each debtor name requested, if the filing office supplies the form. The fee for
a copy of a filed UCC is $1.00 per page.
1.11 COUNTY INFRACTIONS.
   A violation of this Code or any ordinance or code herein adopted by
reference or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty required by the
same, with the exception of those provisions specifically provided under State
law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious misdemeanor, or a
simple misdemeanor under Chapters 687 through 747 of the Code of Iowa, is a
County infraction punishable by civil penalty as provided herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 331.307)
   1.   Penalties. A County infraction is punishable by the following civil
penalties:
      A.   First Offense - Not to exceed $750.00.
      B.   Each Repeat Offense - Not to exceed $1,000.00.
   Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a
repeat offense.
   2.   Civil Citations. Any officer authorized by the County to enforce this
Code of Ordinances may issue a civil citation to a person who commits a
municipal infraction. The citation may be served by personal service as
provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.305, by certified mail addressed to the
defendant at defendant’s last known mailing address, return receipt requested,
or by publication in the manner as provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.310
and subject to the conditions of Rule of Civil Procedure 1.311. A copy of the
citation shall be retained by the issuing officer, and one copy shall be sent
to the Clerk of the District Court. The citation shall serve as notification
that a civil offense has been committed.
   3.   Alternative Relief. Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this
chapter does not preclude the County from seeking alternative relief from the
court in the same action. Such alternative relief may include, but is not
limited to, an order for abatement or injunctive relief.
   4.   Criminal Penalties. This section does not preclude a peace officer from
issuing a criminal citation for a violation of this Code of Ordinances or
regulation if criminal penalties are also provided for the violation. Nor does
it preclude or limit the authority of the County to enforce the provisions of
this Code of Ordinances by criminal sanctions or other lawful means.
CHAPTER 2
ELECTION PRECINCTS
 
2.01 Purpose 2.02 Election Precincts
 
2.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to re-establish the election precincts in
Marion County based upon population figures of the 2020 Federal Census in
accordance with Section 331.208 and Chapter 49 of the Code of Iowa.
2.02 ELECTION PRECINCTS.
   In accordance with sections 49.3, 49.4,
49.5, 49.6, 49.7, and 49.8 of the Code of Iowa, the Marion County election precincts shall be:
Precinct Boundary
Precinct        Boundary
Clay            Clay Twp, Harvey
Dallas          Dallas Twp, Melcher-Dallas
Franklin        Franklin Twp
Indiana         Indiana Twp
Knoxville One   Knoxville One as defined by Knoxville City Ordinance
Knoxville Two   Knoxville Two as defined by Knoxville City Ordinance
Knoxville Three Knoxville Three as defined by Knoxville City Ordinance
Knoxville Four  Knoxville Four as defined by Knoxville City Ordinance
Knoxville       Knoxville Twp excluding City of Knoxville
Lake Prairie    Lake Prairie Twp excluding Pella Precincts 1-4
Liberty         Liberty Twp, Bussey, Hamilton, Marysville
Otley           Summit Twp, Red Rock Twp
Pella One       Pella One as defined by City of Pella Ordinance
Pella Two       Pella Two as defined by City of Pella Ordinance
Pella Three     Pella Three as defined by City of Pella Ordinance
Pella Four      Pella Four as defined by City of Pella Ordinance
Pleasantville   Pleasant Grove Twp, Pleasantville, Swan
Union           Union Twp
Washington      Washington Twp
 
CHAPTER 5
LOCAL OPTION SALES AND SERVICE TAX
 
5.01 Imposition of Tax 5.03 Exceptions
5.02 Tax Rate
 
5.01 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   There is imposed a local option sales and services tax applicable to
transactions within the incorporated areas of Pella, Pleasantville, Knoxville,
Swan, Melcher-Dallas, Harvey, Bussey, Hamilton, Marysville, and the
unincorporated area of Marion County.
5.02 TAX RATE.
   1.   The rate of tax shall be one percent upon the sales price taxed under
Chapter 423B, Local Option taxes of the Code of Iowa, in the unincorporated
area of Marion County and the following cities: Pella, Pleasantville, Swan,
Knoxville, Melcher-Dallas, Harvey, Bussey, Hamilton, and Marysville.
   2.   The local sales and services tax approved by voters currently imposed
in Marion County on transactions remains in effect and renews on or after the
following dates:
Taxing Authority Renewal Date Sunset Date
Taxing Authority       Renewal Date Sunset Date
City of Hamilton       01/01/2013   No sunset
City of Harvey         01/01/2012   No sunset
City of Marysville     01/01/2012   No sunset
City of Pleasantville  01/01/2012   No sunset
City of Swan           01/01/2012   No sunset
City of Bussey         01/01/2022   No sunset
City of Melcher-Dallas 01/01/2022   No sunset
City of Knoxville      01/01/2024   No sunset
City of Pella          01/01/2024   12/31/2043
Unincorporated Area    01/01/2024   No sunset
 
5.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   In all areas the tax shall be collected by all persons required to collect
State gross receipts taxes. However, the tax shall not be imposed on the gross
receipts from the sale of motor fuel or special fuel, as defined in Chapter
452A of the Code of Iowa, on the gross receipts from the rental of rooms,
apartments, or sleeping quarters which are taxed under Chapter 423A of the Code
of Iowa during the period that a hotel and motel tax is imposed, on the gross
receipts from the sale of natural gas or electric energy in a city or County
where the gross receipts are subject to a franchise fee or user fee during the
period the franchise or user fee is imposed, on the gross receipts from the
sale of a lottery ticket or share in a lottery game conducted pursuant to
Chapter 99G of the Code of Iowa, and on the sale or rental of tangible personal
property described in Chapter 423 of the Code of Iowa. All applicable
provisions of the appropriate Sections of Chapter 423B of the Code of Iowa are
adopted by reference.
CHAPTER 6
URBAN RENEWAL
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 7
GENERAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
 
7.01 Purpose                            7.05 General Assistance Application
7.02 Definitions                        7.06 Review by the Board
7.03 Eligibility for General Assistance 7.07 Appeal
7.04 General Assistance Manual          7.08 Appeal Hearings
 
7.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the position of the County that provision of assistance to poor or
needy persons is a matter of public benefit as well as a statutory duty of the
County, and to that end general assistance, as defined herein, shall be
administered to poor or needy families and individuals, as identified by
General Assistance Manual guidelines, promptly, humanely, and equitably, in
order to assure those persons decent, healthful living situations.
7.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Designee” means qualified General Assistance staff appointed by the
Director to help administer the County’s General Assistance program.
   2.   “Director” means the General Assistance Director appointed or
designated by the Marion County Board of Supervisors to oversee the County’s
General Assistance program.
   3.   “Family” means the person applying for general assistance, that
person’s spouse, children under 18 years of age, older children who are
dependent on the applicant due to school attendance or incapacity, and anyone
else domiciled with the applicant and dependent upon the applicant according to
guidelines used by the State Department of Revenue in collecting income tax.
   4.   “General assistance” means County payment made on behalf of poor or
needy persons for rent, utilities, food, medical services, burial, and
miscellaneous expenses.
   5.   “Poor” defined, by Section 252.1 of the Code of Iowa, as persons who
have no property, exempt, or otherwise and are unable, because of physical or
mental disabilities, to earn a living by labor.
   6.   “Needy” means a lack of resources to maintain self or family in a
decent, healthful situation defined by Section 252.1 of the Code of Iowa as
persons who have some means when conducive to their welfare and the best
interests of the public.
   7.   “Vendor payment” means a County Auditor’s warrant to the supplier of
goods or services.
7.03 ELIGIBILITY FOR GENERAL ASSISTANCE.
   `Eligibility for general assistance shall be determined on the basis of need
as established and verified by the General Assistance Director or designee,
according to the guidelines set out in Sections III and IV of the General
Assistance Manual and shall be determined without regard to race, creed,
religion, national origin, sex, or age.
7.04 GENERAL ASSISTANCE MANUAL.
   1.   The rules, regulations, standards, and guidelines for administrating
general assistance shall comprise the General Assistance Manual.
   2.   The General Assistance Manual shall be adopted by resolution of the
Board of Supervisors.
   3.   Amendments to the General Assistance Manual shall be made by resolution
pursuant to Section 331.302 of the Code of Iowa, following publication of
notice of the proposed change and opportunity for the public to be heard.
   4.   Copies of the General Assistance Manual shall be available to the
public in the office of the Director.
7.05 GENERAL ASSISTANCE APPLICATION.
   Application for general assistance shall be made to the Director or designee
on forms supplied by the General Assistance Office. Upon receipt of a completed
application, the Director or designee shall give written notification to the
applicant of the decision to grant, pend, or deny the application within five
working days. Such notice shall include the factual basis for the Director’s or
designee’s decision, a statement of the right to appeal, and a recital of
appeal procedures.
7.06 REVIEW BY THE BOARD.
   The Board of Supervisors may review the determination of eligibility made by
the Director or designee. If the Board of Supervisors questions any allowance
of assistance benefits allowed by the Director or designee, it shall take no
action concerning such allowance until it conducts a hearing. Notice of the
hearing shall be given to the applicant in the same manner as if the applicant
had taken the appeal. This hearing shall proceed in the same manner as an
appeal by the applicant from the Director’s or designee’s determination.
7.07 APPEAL.
   1.   Every applicant, whether granted assistance or not, shall be informed
in the Director’s or designee’s written decision of the applicant’s right to
appeal from such decision to the Board of Supervisors. The applicant shall be
informed:
      A.   Of the method by which an appeal may be taken; and
      B.   That they may represent themselves or may be represented by counsel
at applicant’s expense.
   2.   The written appeal or communication shall be made to the Director
within 10 days after the Director’s or designee’s determination, shall provide
the applicant’s current address and telephone number, and shall state the
reasons for the appeal. Any written appeal or communication to the Director, by
or on behalf of an applicant requesting appeal of the Director’s or designee’s
determination, shall be received by the Director and put upon the Board of
Supervisors agenda in accordance with Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa, for the
next regular Board of Supervisors meeting, provided that such appeal shall not
be heard sooner than five working days after appeal is taken. The applicant
shall be informed immediately, by telephone and by ordinary mail, of the date
and time of hearing before the Board of Supervisors. Applicant and applicant’s
attorney, upon written authorization from applicant, shall be granted access by
the Director to applicant’s case file upon request.
7.08 APPEAL HEARINGS.
   1.   The Board of Supervisors shall hear applicant’s appeal at the time
scheduled in the agenda unless continuance is requested by applicant and
granted by the Board of Supervisors. Applicant shall be permitted to present
any evidence desired in support of the appeal by personal testimony, by having
other witnesses testify, by offering documentary evidence and by reasonable
cross examination of other witnesses, if present. The technical rules of
evidence shall not apply. The Board of Supervisors may set reasonable times for
the present action of the parties at any appeal. The applicant’s file shall be
admitted into evidence. The Board of Supervisors may question the applicant,
and the Director shall present the Board of Supervisors with the reasons for
the determination. The appeal shall be tape recorded. The hearing before the
Board of Supervisors shall not be an open meeting under Chapter 21 of the Code
of Iowa, since the confidential files of the applicant will be in evidence.
When the Board of Supervisors deliberates on the appeal, no persons other than
Board of Supervisors members shall be present. The Board of Supervisors
deliberations shall not be tape recorded.
   2.   The Board of Supervisors shall make a decision on the appeal within 10
working days after the hearing. The Board of Supervisors findings of fact and
decision shall be based only on the evidence submitted during the hearing.
Immediately after making its decision, the Board of Supervisors shall mail to
the applicant at their last known address, by ordinary mail, its decision in
writing. The decision shall state the reasons for the action and shall also
state that an appeal may be taken to District Court from the Board of
Supervisors determination, and shall state the method by which such appeal may
be taken.
   3.   Any appeal from the Board of Supervisors decision to the District Court
shall be allowed within the time and by the manner and procedures established
under the Iowa Administrative Procedures Act, Chapter 17A of the Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 8
VETERANS’ ASSISTANCE
 
8.01 Categories                       8.08 Assistance of an Extended Nature
8.02 Definitions                      8.09 Application for Assistance
8.03 Application Requirements         8.10 Initial Determination
8.04 Form of Assistance               8.11 Appeal
8.05 Eligibility of Indigent Veterans 8.12 Appeal Hearings
8.06 Level of Benefits                8.13 Actions of the Commission and the
                                      Board
8.07 Requirements for Receiving        
Assistance
 
8.01 CATEGORIES.
   There are two categories of veterans’ assistance in the County. They are:
   1.   Emergency assistance for indigent veterans;
   2.   Assistance of an extended nature.
8.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Assistance” means food, rent, shelter, clothing, transportation,
emergency telephone service, fuel, lights, and medical attention. Food does not
include cigarettes or alcoholic beverages, but does include laundry soap,
household cleaners, and other items of non-food nature used for personal
hygiene. “Assistance” also includes provisions of any of the above items of
assistance by the Commission through the offering of residence at a care
facility. “Assistance” also includes the burial of indigent veterans, whether
resident in the County or not, in an amount established by the Board of
Supervisors.
   2.   “Awaiting approval and receipt” describes an indigent veteran who has
applied for assistance under any State or federal law; who has pursued that
application with due diligence; and who has not had that application denied.
   3.   “Commission” means the Marion County Commission of Veterans Affairs or
its Director.
   4.   “Family unit” means the individual veteran applying and all members of
the immediate family including spouse and minor children not over 18 years of
age who are dependent upon the veteran for food, care, and shelter and who
reside with the veteran as a family unit member. In case the veteran is
deceased, “family unit” means the veteran’s surviving spouse who has not
remarried, and all members of the immediate family including minor children of
the deceased veteran not over 18 years of age who are dependent upon the
surviving spouse for food, care, and shelter and who reside with the surviving
spouse as family unit members.
   5.   “Indigent veteran” means a veteran or the family unit of that veteran
that is domiciled in Marion County, who has some means but who, because of
circumstances which are not attributable to that veteran, needs immediate
assistance.
   6.   “Liquid assets” means cash on hand of the veteran and members of the
family unit.
   7.   “Net worth” includes income or moneys from any source, moneys due,
savings, and other deposits, stocks, bonds, real estate (other than homestead),
cash value of life insurance policies, and the value of other real and personal
property, subject to certain exclusions as set forth herein.
   8.   “Veteran” means a person who was discharged from United States military
service under honorable conditions and has served on active duty for 90
continuous days, unless discharged with less service for a service-connected
disability, during the following wars and within and including the dates set
forth:
      A.   World War I - April 6, 1917, to November 11, 1918.
      B.   World War II - December 7, 1941, to December 31, 1946.
      C.   Korean War - June 25, 1950, to January 31, 1955.
      D.   Vietnam Conflict - August 5, 1964, to May 7, 1975.
      E.   Persian Gulf – August 2, 1990, through a date set by law or
Presidential Proclamation.
      F.   U.S. War in Afghanistan. October 7, 2001 to August 30, 2021.
8.03 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   In applying for benefits, the veteran must submit to the Commission with the
application, the following:
   1.   DD Form 214 - “Report of Separation from the Armed Forces.” (Request
the veteran have their discharge recorded in the County Recorder’s Office when
requesting Benefits.)
   2.   Certificate of Marriage, if applicable.
   3.   Children’s birth certificates, if applicable, and for those under 18
years of age.
   4.   Social Security Card.
   In lieu of a Certificate of Marriage, children’s birth certificates, and a
Social Security Card, the veteran may provide a copy of their latest federal
income tax return showing the same information. However, when application is
made by a surviving spouse, a Certificate of Marriage must be submitted with
birth certificates of any minor children claimed as the veteran’s.
8.04 FORM OF ASSISTANCE.
   The assistance shall be purchased directly from the supplier for the
applicant or the family unit. It may be for one or more of the items of
assistance that can be provided.
8.05 ELIGIBILITY OF INDIGENT VETERANS.
   1.   Emergency assistance is to be provided an indigent veteran who is in
need of immediate assistance, cannot obtain assistance from any other source,
and whose income or benefits from a State or federal program have been delayed
or not actually received by the person because of reasons not attributable to
that person, and who does not have liquid assets of the family unit from which
to pay for the items of assistance that can be provided.
   2.   Assistance may be granted to veterans who are eligible for, and are
awaiting approval and receipt of, benefits under programs provided by State or
federal law, or whose actual needs, as defined within the limitations imposed
by this chapter, cannot be fully met by the assistance furnished under such
programs.
8.06 LEVEL OF BENEFITS.
   The maximum level of benefits to be provided for each item of assistance for
each veteran or that veteran’s family unit shall be:
   1.   Food, if food stamps have not been received, at the level of guidelines
for food stamps.
   2.   Rent and shelter, the reasonable rental value with a maximum
established by the Commission.
   3.   Clothing, the reasonable value of clothing actually needed if not
immediately available from other sources.
   4.   Heat, light, and water, the amount needed to provide these services and
supplies.
   5.   Medical, dental services, and prescriptions, the reasonable value of
these services actually needed as shown by a statement from a physician,
dentist, or optician, if not available from other sources.
   6.   Transportation expenses, including gasoline, as needed to obtain other
benefits or seek employment, provided that proof of application for benefits or
employment is provided to the Commission.
   7.   If a veteran lives in a rural area and the nearest neighbor is too
distant to reach in event of an emergency, or has a medical necessity, the
monthly cost of one telephone is to be allowed. Long-distance telephone charges
for other than medical emergencies shall not be allowed or provided.
   The total amount for all of the items of assistance needed, at any one time,
shall be determined, and there shall be deducted the amount of liquid assets
the veteran or the family unit have available, and the balance remaining is the
amount of assistance the indigent veteran is to receive.
8.07 REQUIREMENTS FOR RECEIVING ASSISTANCE.
   An indigent veteran who is not needed in the home to care for minor children
shall immediately register for employment with Job Services of Iowa and
otherwise actively seek employment. The indigent veteran shall seek and accept
any reasonable employment whether or not it is suitable employment under the
guidelines of Job Services of Iowa. A refusal or failure to actively seek
employment or refusal or failure to accept reasonable employment offered shall
disqualify the indigent veteran from receiving future benefits. The indigent
veteran may be required to provide reasonable proof that employment is being
actively sought.
8.08 ASSISTANCE OF AN EXTENDED NATURE.
   It is contemplated that items of assistance to be provided to indigent
veterans or their family units will not, during any one consecutive period of
time, exceed 90 days. If it appears that items of assistance should be provided
continuously beyond this 90-day period, they will be provided by placement in
the Iowa Veterans Home, if available, unless it is determined by the Commission
that it is better for the family unit of the indigent veteran to continue to
receive items of assistance on a month-to-month basis.
8.09 APPLICATION FOR ASSISTANCE.
   Applications for assistance shall be submitted by indigent veterans to the
Commission at the County Commission Office in Knoxville, Iowa, during usual
business hours upon forms provided by the Commission. If, because of undue
hardship, an indigent veteran cannot come to the Commission Office, the
Commission shall mail such veteran an application form or deliver to such
veteran the application. If the applicant or the family unit is or appears to
be eligible for assistance from any other federal, State, or local source, the
Commission shall immediately refer the applicant to that source. It shall be
the obligation of the applicant to immediately make application to that source
and pursue such application with due diligence as a condition to be eligible
for further assistance under this chapter. It is the obligation of each veteran
applying to establish eligibility for any category of veterans’ assistance and
need for any item of assistance. If requested, the veteran applying shall
provide the Commission with a verified statement of net worth, federal and
State income tax returns for the past five years, medical reports, medical
authorization, and anything else requested by the Commission that bears upon
the veteran’s eligibility and need for assistance. The Commission may also
require, upon approval of the Board of Supervisors, that the applicant submits
to a physical or mental examination to determine applicant’s capacity to labor.
The Commission shall also receive anything that the veteran applying desires to
submit to establish their eligibility or need, to include statements or
letters, medical reports, and other written documents as well as the verbal
statements of the applicant. The Commission shall then proceed to conduct a
reasonable investigation concerning the applicant’s eligibility and needs. The
applicant’s file and the investigation and findings of the Commission shall be
made available to the applicant, upon request, or to the applicant’s attorney
by written authorization.
8.10 INITIAL DETERMINATION.
   1.   The Commission shall make an initial determination of the eligibility
and needs of the applicant within three working days of receipt of the
application. Upon the determination, the Commission shall notify the applicant
by telephone immediately, if possible, and within two working days after the
determination, mail the applicant at the last address shown on the application,
by ordinary mail, the Commission’s written decision showing the reasons for
determination and the statutes or ordinances applied, together with the
specific benefits and their amounts to which the applicant is entitled. If the
Commission cannot make the initial determination within three working days, the
Commission shall immediately inform the applicant by telephone, if possible, of
the reasons why such determination cannot be made. The Commission shall also
mail to the applicant, by ordinary mail, within two working days thereafter,
the Commission’s written decision showing the reasons why such determination
could not be made.
   2.   If an applicant has been previously found eligible, the Commission need
not receive a new application but may proceed to a determination of whether or
not current assistance is warranted. Notice and mailing of such determination
shall be as provided above. If an emergency and immediate need is present, the
Commission may verbally authorize a supplier or vendor to furnish any item of
assistance for the benefit of the applicant and the amount allowed for such
benefit. The Commission shall inform the applicant and issue a written decision
as provided above.
   3.   Whenever an applicant is found eligible and entitled to assistance, the
Commission shall proceed to provide the same and notify the Board of
Supervisors.
8.11 APPEAL.
   Every applicant, whether assistance is denied, in whole or in part, shall be
informed in the Commission’s written decision of the applicant’s right to
appeal from such decision. The applicant shall be informed of the method and
time by which an appeal may be taken.
   1.   Any written appeal or communication to the Commission or to the
Director, by or on behalf of an applicant requesting appeal, shall be accepted
by the Commission or the Director. This appeal must be made within 10 days of
the date of the decision, provide applicant’s current address and telephone
number, and state the reasons for the appeal. The applicant shall be informed
immediately by telephone and by ordinary mail of the time and date of the
hearing on appeal. Applicant and their attorney, upon written authorization,
should be granted access by the Commission to their case file, if requested.
   2.   If the Director made the decision from which the appeal is taken, the
appeal shall be to the Commission itself. An agenda for the appeal before the
Commission shall be made and posted as required by the Code of Iowa. The appeal
shall be heard before the Commission at its next regular monthly meeting
provided that the appeal shall not be heard sooner than five days after appeal
has been taken. If the Commission’s regular monthly meeting is scheduled more
than 10 days beyond the date appeal is taken, the Commission shall meet
specially for the appeal between the fifth and the tenth day after the appeal
is filed. Any appeal taken before the Commission at a regular or special
meeting shall be closed pursuant to the Code of Iowa, because the identity and
particulars of the case are confidential under the Code of Iowa.
   3.   If the Commission made the original decision from which the appeal is
taken or if further appeal is taken from the Commission’s decision on appeal,
it shall be to the Board of Supervisors. The appeal shall be noted on the Board
of Supervisor’s agenda for the next regular Board of Supervisors meeting,
provided that such appeal shall not be heard sooner than five days after appeal
is taken. Any appeal before the Board shall be closed pursuant to the Code of
Iowa, because the identity and particulars of the case are confidential under
the Code of Iowa.
8.12 APPEAL HEARINGS.
   1.   Applicant’s appeal shall be heard de novo at the time scheduled in the
agenda unless continuance is requested by the applicant. Then applicant shall
be permitted to present whatever evidence desired in support of the appeal,
including testimony, having other witnesses testify, offering documentary
evidence and reasonable cross examination of other witnesses, if present. The
technical rules of evidence shall not apply. The Commission or Board of
Supervisors may set reasonable times for the presentation of the parties at any
appeal. The applicant’s file shall be admitted into evidence. The Commission or
Board of Supervisors may question the applicant. On an appeal before the Board
of Supervisors, the Commission shall present the Board of Supervisors with the
reasons for its determination. The appeal will be tape recorded. When the
Commission or Board of Supervisors deliberates on the appeal, no parties shall
be present.
   2.   The Commission or Board of Supervisors shall make a decision on the
appeal within five working days. The decision shall be only on the basis of the
evidence submitted. The applicant shall be informed immediately by telephone of
the decision and within four working days thereafter, the applicant shall be
mailed, at their last known address, the decision in writing. The decision
shall state the reasons for action, together with any statute or ordinance
applied.
8.13 ACTIONS OF THE COMMISSION AND THE BOARD.
   In the event the Commission, in reviewing the actions of the Director, or
the Board of Supervisors, in reviewing the actions of the Commission, questions
any allowance of assistance benefits, it shall not take action concerning such
allowance until it conducts a hearing. This hearing, the reasons for it, and
notification to the applicant shall be given in the same manner as if the
applicant has taken an appeal. This hearing shall proceed in the same manner as
an appeal from the Director to the Commission.
CHAPTER 20
AREA SERVICE SYSTEM B ROAD CLASSIFICATION
 
20.01 Purpose                20.05 Maintenance Policy
20.02 Definitions            20.06 Upgrades in Service Level
20.03 Powers of the Board    20.07 Exemption From Liability
20.04 Authority to Establish
 
20.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to classify certain roads on the Area Service
System in the County to provide for a reduced level of maintenance.
20.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Area Service System” includes those public roads outside of
municipalities not otherwise classified.
      A.   “Area Service System A roads” shall be maintained in conformance
with applicable State statutes.
      B.   “Area Service System B roads” shall not require standards of
maintenance equal to collector or Area Service System A roads. An Area Service
System B road does not mean what is construed in the normal sense as a driveway
or a private lane to a farm building or dwelling.
20.03 POWERS OF THE BOARD.
   All jurisdiction and control over Area Service System B roads as provided by
this chapter shall rest with the Board of Supervisors.
20.04 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH.
   The Board of Supervisors is empowered, under authority of Chapter 309 of the
Code of Iowa, to classify secondary roads on the Area Service System to provide
for a reduced level of maintenance on roads so designated. The Board of
Supervisors shall, by resolution, declare its intention to establish an Area
Service System B road in the County after consultation with the County
Engineer.
20.05 MAINTENANCE POLICY.
   Only the minimum effort, expense, and attention will be provided to keep
Area Service System B roads open to traffic. Bridges may not be maintained to
carry legal loads but will be posted as appropriate to advise of any load
limitations. For the various maintenance activities, the minimum maintenance on
Area Service Level B roads will be as follows:
   1.   Blading. Blading or dragging will not be performed on a regular basis.
   2.   Snow and Ice Removal. Limited snow and ice removal will be performed
for purposes of access to dwellings or livestock. Snow and ice removal on
Service Level B roads will be the lowest priority for the County. Salt or
abrasives will not be applied to Service Level B roads. Any other snow removal
may be done on a special request basis as judged necessary by the County
Engineer operating under Board policy.
   3.   Signing. Except for load limit posting for bridges, signing shall not
be continued or provided. All Area Service Level B roads shall be identified
with a sign at all points of access to warn the public of the lower level of
maintenance, in accordance with the Iowa Manual on Traffic Control Devices.
   4.   Weeds, Brush, and Trees. Mowing, or spraying weeds, cutting brush, and
tree removal will not be performed on a regular basis. Adequate sight distances
will not be maintained.
   5.   Structures. Bridges and culverts may not be maintained to carry legal
loads. Upon failure or loss, the replacement structure will be appropriate for
the traffic thereon.
   6.   Road Surfacing. There will be no surfacing materials applied to Area
Service System B roads.
   7.   Shoulders. Shoulders will not be maintained.
   8.   Crown. A crown will not be maintained.
   9.   Repairs. There will be no road repair on a regular basis.
   10.   Uniform Width. Uniform width for the traveled portion of the road will
not be maintained.
   11.   Inspections. Regular inspections will not be conducted.
20.06 UPGRADES IN SERVICE LEVEL.
   1.   The Board of Supervisors may, on its own motion, or upon recommendation
of the Engineer, determine to re-establish a Service Level B road, or portion
thereof, as an Area Service System Level A road. Such determination may be made
upon a finding that the proposed upgrade in service level is in the interests
of the general public welfare.
   2.   The Board of Supervisors may, upon application of a resident,
landowner, or tenant who occupies land adjacent to a Level B road of the
County, and in consultation with the Engineer, determine to re-establish a
roadway, or portion thereof, as an Area Service System Level A road. Such
determination may be made upon a finding that the proposed upgrade in service
level is in the interests of the public welfare. A resident, landowner, or
tenant who occupies land adjacent to a Level B road of the County shall make
such application to the Engineer upon forms or format determined by the
Engineer. Upon receipt of such application, the Engineer shall prepare an
estimate of the costs to upgrade the road to Level A standards (e.g. IDOT I.M.
3.210). The Engineer shall provide such cost estimate, together with a
recommendation either in support of or against such application to the Board of
Supervisors, and a copy to the applicant. The Board of Supervisors, in its sole
discretion, may determine to grant the application or deny the application. In
the event the Board of Supervisors grants the application, the applicant shall
perform or assume the costs of performing all of the following:
      A.   Adjacent landowners must provide a minimum of 33 feet right-of-way
on each side of the centerline of the roadway. Additional right-of-way may be
required to meet the referenced design standards. Acquisition of such right-of-
way shall be at no cost to the County.
      B.   The applicant shall pay one-half of the costs of restoring the road
to an Area Service System Level A road, including, but not limited to, grading
and granular surfacing application to a depth of not less than four inches, and
culvert or bridge repair or replacement, as determined by the Engineer in the
estimate of costs to restore the road. The applicant shall provide said funds
(one-half the overall cost estimate) to the County prior to the commencement of
work. Said funds shall be held in escrow and shall be disbursed on not less
than a monthly basis upon percentage completion of the work of restoring the
road.
   Should the actual cost of restoring the road to a Level A service be within
10 percent of the estimate, the County will retain said difference for future
road improvement or maintenance throughout the County. Should the difference be
greater than 10 percent, the entire amount of the difference will be returned
to the applicant. Should the actual cost of restoring the road to a Level A
service be more than estimated, the applicant shall not be required to further
contribute, and the County shall bear the additional cost. Construction shall
be scheduled at such time as the County budget and work schedule will allow.
20.07 EXEMPTION FROM LIABILITY.
   As provided in Section 309.57 of the Code of Iowa, the County and officers,
agents, and employees of the County are not liable for injury to any person or
for damage to any vehicle or equipment which occurs proximately as a result of
the maintenance of a road which is classified as Area Service System B, if the
road has been maintained as provided in Section
20.05.
CHAPTER 21
 AREA SERVICE SYSTEM C ROAD CLASSIFICATION
 
21.01 Purpose         21.06 Trespass
21.02 Definitions     21.07 Reclassification
21.03 How Established 21.08 Powers of the Board
21.04 Access          21.09 Exemption from Liability
21.05 Signs           21.10 Maintenance
 
21.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to classify certain roads on the Area Service
System in the County as Area Service “C” roads to provide for a reduced level
of maintenance effort and restricted access, pursuant to Section 309.57 of the
Code of Iowa.
21.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Area Service System” includes those public roads outside of
municipalities not otherwise classified.
      A.   “Area Service System A roads” shall be maintained in conformance
with applicable State statutes.
      B.   “Area Service System C roads” shall not require standards of
maintenance equal to farm to market or Area Service System A roads. An Area
Service System C road does not mean what is construed in the normal sense as a
driveway or a private lane to a farm building or dwelling.
21.03 HOW ESTABLISHED.
   1.   Resolution. Roads may only be classified as Area Service C by
resolution of the Board of Supervisors. The resolution shall specify the level
of the maintenance effort and the persons who will have access rights to the
road.
   2.   Notice of Action. Before the Board of Supervisors may take action to
establish an Area Service C road, a notice of the proposed action, including
the location of the Area Service C road and the time and place of the meeting
at which the Board of Supervisors proposes to take action, shall be published
as provided by law.
   3.   Board of Supervisors Action. At the meeting, the Board of Supervisors
shall receive oral or written comments from any resident or property owner of
the County. After all comments have been received and considered, the Board of
Supervisors, at that meeting or on a date to which it is adjourned, may take
action after consultation with the Engineer.
21.04 ACCESS.
   Access to an Area Service C road shall be restricted by means of a gate or
other suitable barrier. The gate or barrier shall be purchased, installed, and
maintained by the adjoining landowners. If not so maintained, the County may
remove the gate or barrier. Persons with access rights to the road shall be:
   1.   The owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession of any affected land.
   2.   The agent or employee of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful
possession of any affected land.
   3.   Any peace officer.
   4.   Any magistrate.
   5.   Any public employee whose duty it is to supervise the use or perform
maintenance on the road.
   6.   Any agent or employee of any utility located upon the road.
21.05 SIGNS.
   Area Service C roads shall have signs conforming to the Iowa State Sign
Manual per 761 Iowa Administrative Code (IAC) Chapter 130. The signs shall be
installed and maintained by the County at all access points to Area Service C
roads from other public roads to warn the public that access is limited.
21.06 TRESPASS.
   Entering an Area Service C road without justification, after being notified
or requested to abstain from entering or to remove or vacate the road by any
person lawfully allowed access, shall be a trespass as defined in Section 716.7
of the Code of Iowa.
21.07 RECLASSIFICATION.
   A road with an Area Service C classification shall retain the classification
until such time as a petition for reclassification is submitted to the Board of
Supervisors. The petition shall be signed by one or more adjoining landowners.
The Board of Supervisors shall approve or deny the request for reclassification
within 60 days of receipt of the petition.
21.08 POWERS OF THE BOARD.
   All jurisdiction and control over Area Service C roads shall rest with the
Board of Supervisors, pursuant to Section 309.57 of the Code of Iowa.
21.09 EXEMPTION FROM LIABILITY.
   As provided in Section 309.57 of the Code of Iowa, the County and officers,
agents, and employees of the County are not liable for injury to any person or
for damage to any vehicle or equipment which occurs proximately as a result of
the maintenance of a road which is classified as Area Service C, if the road
has been maintained to the level of maintenance effort described in the
establishing resolution.
21.10 MAINTENANCE.
   Only minimal effort, expense, and attention will be provided to Area Service
C roads. Bridges on Area Service C roads may not be maintained to carry legal
loads but will be posted as appropriate to advise of any load limitations. For
the various maintenance activities, the level of maintenance on Area Service C
roads will be as follows:
   1.   Blading. Blading or dragging will not be performed on a regular basis.
   2.   Snow and Ice Removal. Snow and ice will not be removed, nor will the
road surface be sanded or salted.
   3.   Signing. Except for identification signs and load limit postings for
structures, signing will not be provided.
   4.   Weeds and Brush. Mowing or spraying of weeds, cutting, or spraying of
brush, and removal of trees will not be performed on a regular basis.
   5.   Structures. Bridges and culverts may not be maintained to carry legal
loads. Upon failure or loss, bridges and culverts may not be replaced, and if
replaced, the replacement structure will be appropriate for the traffic
thereon.
   6.   Road Surfacing. No surfacing material will be applied.
   7.   Shoulders. Shoulders will not be maintained.
   8.   Crown. A crown will not be maintained.
   9.   Repairs. Repairs will not be performed on a regular basis.
   10.   Width. A uniform width of roadway will not be maintained.
   11.   Inspections. Inspections will not be performed on a regular basis.
CHAPTER 22
SNOW AND ICE CLEARANCE
 
22.01 Purpose             22.04 Mailbox Replacement
22.02 Level of Service    22.05 Limitation of Service
22.03 Sequence of Service 22.06 Emergency
 
22.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish the County’s policy and level of
service in respect to clearance of snow or ice and maintenance of its secondary
road system during the winter months, specifically defined as November through
April, pursuant to the provisions of Section 309.67 of the Code of Iowa. This
policy and level of service are to be implemented within the amount of money
budgeted for this service, and as contained in the County’s secondary road
budget as submitted to and approved by the State Department of Transportation
and adopted by the Board of Supervisors. The clearing of roads at any cost is
not the County’s policy.
22.02 LEVEL OF SERVICE.
   Clearance of snow or ice and maintenance of the secondary road system during
the winter months are primarily for the benefit of the local residents of the
County. Each storm has individual characteristics and must be dealt with
accordingly. The portion of the roadway improved for travel will have upon it
snow and ice in a compacted condition. These conditions may be continuous, or
they may be more concentrated on hills, in valleys, curves, or intersections.
The County’s existing snow removal equipment will be utilized for this purpose.
On occasion County personnel may be rendered unavailable due to the
requirements of the Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1991. Except
for “emergencies” as determined by the County Engineer’s professional judgment,
on a case-by-case basis, all clearance of snow or ice, sanding, salting, and
other maintenance respecting winter conditions shall be accomplished within the
amount of money budgeted for this service and as practicable. The entire width
of the portion of the road improved for travel may not be cleared of snow, ice,
compacted snow, ice, or frost. Snow cleared from that part of the roadway
improved for travel shall be placed on or in the adjacent shoulder, ditch, or
right-of-way. Snow can be expected to accumulate adjacent to the traveled
portion to the extent that a motorist’s sight distance to both the left and
right may be greatly reduced or impaired. The snow removed from intersections
will be piled in its corners in piles of unequal height. The lines of sight,
sight distance, or visibility of motorists approaching these intersections may
be greatly reduced or impaired. The County shall not be responsible for snow
pushed or otherwise placed on the roadway or shoulders by others. Motorists
shall drive their vehicles during these conditions with additional caution and
watchfulness, especially in respect to the surface of the roadway, and reduced
or impaired visibility, and are advised to reduce their speed at least 25 MPH
below that legally permitted or advised under normal conditions. In respect to
roadways that have only one lane open, further extreme watchfulness and caution
should be exercised by the motorists, and their speed should not exceed 10 MPH.
During these conditions, no additional warning or regulatory signs will be
placed warning of impaired sight distances, visibility at intersections, road
blockages, one-lane conditions, or that the road surface is slick or slippery,
or what the advised speed should be.
22.03 SEQUENCE OF SERVICE.
   In the implementation of snow and ice removal and other maintenance of the
County’s secondary road system during the winter months, the County Engineer
shall select the actual sequence of roads to be cleared as provided for in this
section, and shall determine when drifting, wind velocity, and additional snow
or snowstorms require that the snow removal equipment be removed from the
roadway, or that additional clearance of paved roads be accomplished prior to
the clearance of gravel and dirt roads. The County Engineer’s professional
judgment shall prevail unless it is clearly erroneous.
   1.   Paved Routes.
      A.   The initial effort will be to get all routes open to two-lane
traffic as soon as possible or practicable. During initial snow removal
operations, paved roads may only have one lane plowed for a period of time.
      B.   After two-lane travel is possible, subsequent snow removal will be
carried on during normal working hours.
      C.   The truck-mounted snowplows and spreaders will not normally be in
operation between the hours of 8:00 p.m. to 4:00 a.m. The trucks may be called
off the road if snow and blowing reduces visibility to hazardous working
conditions, in the professional judgment of the County Engineer.
      D.   When required, due to drifting snow, motor graders may be used to
keep the paved roads open, and the opening of gravel roads may be delayed.
      E.   It is not the policy of the County to provide a “dry” pavement
condition.
      F.   After roads have been plowed as provided in this section,
intersections, hills, and curves may have salt, sand, or other abrasives placed
on them. These intersections, hills, and curves may not be re-sanded, re-
salted, or have other abrasives replaced on them between snowstorms.
   There is no time limit after a snowstorm in which any of the above sequence
of clearance, on paved or unpaved roads, shall take place.
   2.   Unpaved Roads.
      A.   The initial effort will be to get all routes open to one-lane
traffic as soon as possible or practicable after a storm has passed.
      B.   After one-lane travel is possible, subsequent snow removal will be
carried on during normal working hours.
      C.   Motor graders or truck plows will not normally be in operation
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. to 4:00 a.m. The motor graders or truck plows
may be called off the road if snow and blowing reduces visibility to hazardous
working conditions, in the professional judgment of the Engineer.
      D.   Snow may not be removed from roads designated Level B.
   3.   Private Drives. The County will not clear snow from private drives.
Normal snow removal operation may result in snow being deposited in private
drives. Snow from private drives shall not be placed on the roadway or
shoulders.
22.04 MAILBOX REPLACEMENT.
   The County will assume no liability for mailboxes and fences damaged because
of snow removal unless such action can be determined to be malicious. The
County will not replace mailboxes damaged or knocked down by the force of snow
thrown from the plow.
22.05 LIMITATION OF SERVICE.
   Notwithstanding anything else stated in this chapter, the policy and level
of service provided for in this chapter shall not include the following, and
the following services shall not be performed:
   1.   Sanding, salting or placing of other abrasives upon the roadways that
are slick, slippery, and dangerous due to the formation of frost.
   2.   Sanding, salting, or placing of other abrasives upon paved roadways due
to freezing rain that occurs outside the County’s usual working hours.
   3.   Placing of additional warning or regulatory signs warning of impaired
sight distances, visibility at intersections, road blockages, one-lane
conditions, or that the road surface is slick or slippery, or what the advised
speed should be.
   4.   Sanding, salting, or placing abrasives upon any road, except for paved
roads. If, in the opinion of the County Engineer, an “emergency” exists, and
ice has built up on hills and intersections on the gravel system that slope
down to another road so as to become dangerous, abrasive material may be
applied at these locations as crew and equipment availability allow and only as
a last resort. This condition will not, under any circumstances, take a higher
priority than placing of abrasive material on the paved road system and will
only be done after the paved roads are cleared of ice and snow. Abrasive
material will also only be placed after other mechanical means have been tried
and failed, such as scraping with motor graders.
   5.   Removing sand, salt, or other abrasives.
   6.   Plowing, sanding, salting, or placing of abrasives on any road that is
not within the jurisdiction of the County, unless it is agreed to do so by a
28E agreement between the County and the entity having jurisdiction of the
road.
22.06 EMERGENCY.
   Service or the level or sequence of service may be suspended during
emergency conditions. An “emergency condition” is considered as one where a
loss of life is probable, where serious injury has occurred, or where extensive
loss of property is imminent. These conditions should be verified through the
911 dispatcher or Sheriff’s office. The County may respond to all “emergency
conditions,” either during or after a snowstorm. Any person who makes a false
report of an emergency to an officer, official, or employee of the County or
who causes a false report to be so made shall be in violation of this Code.
Service or the level or sequence of service shall be further suspended in the
event the Governor, by proclamation, implements the State Disaster Plan, or the
Chairperson of the Board of Supervisors, by proclamation, implements the County
Disaster Plan. If such occurs, the County personnel and equipment shall be
immediately subject to the direction of the Governor or the Chairperson of the
Board of Supervisors.
CHAPTER 23
RIGHTS-OF-WAY
 
23.01 Title                  23.04 Authorization Process
23.02 Definitions            23.05 Abatement Cost
23.03 Offenses and Penalties 23.06 Enforcement
 
23.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the County Secondary Road
Right-of-Way Regulations.
23.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Any person responsible” includes any person who personally does any
act which constitutes the unauthorized use of the County secondary roadway
right-of-way. “Any person responsible” includes any person who authorizes or
contracts with another to do any act which leads to the unauthorized use of the
County secondary roadway right-of-way. It is not a defense to this chapter that
a person contracted with another person or entity and that the contractor did
the act which constituted the unauthorized use of the County secondary roadway
right-of-way. A person contracting with another shall have an ongoing duty not
to permit the contractor to do work which involves the unauthorized use of the
County secondary roadway right-of-way and to oversee the work done in order to
ensure that it does not involve the unauthorized use of the County secondary
roadway right-of-way. Evidence that work done on or to benefit a piece of
property involved the unauthorized use of the County secondary roadway right-
of-way shall be prima facie evidence that the owner or lessee of that property
did authorize or permit the unauthorized use of the County secondary roadway
right-of-way. A landlord and tenant shall both be in violation of this chapter
if the unauthorized use of the County secondary roadway right-of-way was done
with the knowledge, consent, approval, or encouragement of the landlord. It
shall be an “affirmative defense” to action under this chapter if the
unauthorized use of the County secondary roadway right-of-way was done solely
by the authority of the tenant without any knowledge, approval, consent, or
encouragement by the landlord. A tenant has an independent duty not to violate
this chapter. It is not a defense under this chapter for the tenant that the
unauthorized use of the County secondary roadway right-of-way was done with the
knowledge, approval, consent, or encouragement of the landlord, unless the
tenant played no part, directly or indirectly, in the action constituting the
unauthorized use of the County secondary roadway right-of-way.
   2.   “County secondary roadway right-of-way” means the entire width,
distance, and portion of any property that the County has the right to use,
whether by easement or fee, for roadway purposes. “County secondary roadway
right-of-way” includes the traveled portion of the roadway, the shoulders and
the ditches and embankments, including both fore slopes and back slopes,
attached to any County secondary roads that are used for roadway purposes. The
width of these properties varies and they have been removed from taxation due
to their public usage.
   3.   “Unauthorized use of the County secondary roadway right-of-way” means
any use of the County secondary roadway right-of-way that is not pre-authorized
in writing by the County Engineer and that occurs after the effective date of
the ordinance codified in this chapter. It includes, but is not limited to
excavating, filling or making any physical changes to any part of the County
secondary roadway right-of-way; the cultivation and growing of crops on the
County right-of-way; the destruction of plants placed in the County right-of-
way; the placing of fences or ditches on the County right-of-way; the
alteration of ditches, water breaks and drainage tiles on the County right-of-
way; the placement of trash, junk, rocks, corn cobs, brush, vehicles,
machinery, or other items on or in the County right-of-way; and the placement
of billboards, signs, hazardous mailbox supports, and advertising devices on
the County right-of-way. “Unauthorized use of the County secondary roadway
right-of-way” does not include the mowing or harvesting of grasses in the
County right-of-way so long as the mowing or harvesting of grasses does not
destroy or adversely affect the grasses or other plants in the County right-of-
way or is not in violation of an integrated roadside vegetation management plan
promulgated pursuant to Section 314.22(2) of the Code of Iowa. “Unauthorized
use of the County secondary roadway right-of-way” does not include driving on
the traveled portion of the roadway, or parking a vehicle on the shoulder of
the roadway for less than two hours, or parking a disabled vehicle on the
shoulder of the roadway for less than 24 hours. “Unauthorized use of the County
secondary roadway right-of-way” does not include the actions of the County
Engineer or any agency of the County or the State.
23.03 OFFENSES AND PENALTIES.
   1.   The unauthorized use of the County secondary roadway right-of-way in
the County is hereby declared a public nuisance and is prohibited.
   2.   The unauthorized use of the County secondary roadway right-of-way shall
be a County Infraction as defined in Section 331.307 of the Code of Iowa and
provided in Section
1.11.
   3.   The County Attorney may ask that the Court waive any portion of the
civil penalty that they deem appropriate.
   4.   Action under this chapter does not prevent or preclude any other civil
or criminal action or remedy that may be applicable.
   5.   In addition to the civil penalty for a violation of this chapter, any
other remedies authorized under Section 331.307 of the Code of Iowa, may be
utilized including, but not limited to, abatement or correction and assessment
of costs.
23.04 AUTHORIZATION PROCESS.
   1.   No action shall be a violation of this chapter if done with the written
pre-authorization of the County Engineer.
   2.   Written pre-authorization shall be in the form of a permit, which shall
be issued at no charge.
   3.   The County Engineer may set forth conditions, limitations, or
specifications in the permit and may require the posting of a bond.
   4.   A permittee under this section may, when appropriate, seek a
modification of the permit. The granting of the modification shall be at the
discretion of the County Engineer.
   5.   A violation of the conditions, limitations, or specifications in the
permit shall be considered the unauthorized use of the County secondary roadway
right-of-way and a violation of this chapter.
   6.   Upon violation of the conditions, limitations, or specifications of a
permit, the County Engineer may, at their sole discretion:
      A.   Modify the permit.
      B.   Give the permittee notice of the violation and an opportunity, as
set out in the notice, to cure the violation by a specified removal deadline.
      C.   Take steps to cure the violation and to assess the costs of the cure
to the permittee.
      D.   Refer the matter to the County Attorney for legal action.
      E.   Take other appropriate action.
   7.   The Board of Supervisors may, at its sole discretion, by majority vote,
waive any violation of this chapter that has not been referred to the County
Attorney for legal action.
23.05 ABATEMENT COST.
   Any person responsible for the unauthorized use of the County secondary
roadway right-of-way shall be strictly liable and responsible for the abatement
and the costs of the abatement of the unauthorized use of the County secondary
roadway right-of-way and for any damages caused by the unauthorized use of the
County secondary roadway right-of-way. The County’s costs for abatement or
correction of the violation may be entered as a personal judgment against the
defendant or assessed against the property where the violation occurred, or
both.
23.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the County Engineer to identify violations of this
chapter. Upon the request of the County Engineer, the County Attorney shall
take those steps that they deem appropriate to enforce this chapter.
CHAPTER 24
UNIFORM RURAL ADDRESS SYSTEM
 
24.01 Purpose                  24.06 Road Markers
24.02 Definitions              24.07 House Numbers
24.03 Establishment of System  24.08 New Structures
24.04 Extent of System         24.09 Maintenance of Uniform Rural Address
                               System
24.05 Implementation of System 24.10 Penalty
 
24.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter mandates the use of a Uniform Rural Address System for
residents of the County, in order to promote the convenience, safety, and
general welfare of those residents, and provides for a penalty.
24.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Base map” means the map used by the agency coordinating the Uniform
Rural Address System in the County. Such a map shall indicate all addresses in
the County subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   2.   “Building” means a roofed or walled structure built for permanent use.
   3.   “E911 Coordinator” means the Marion County E911 Coordinator.
   4.   “Subdivision” means the division of a tract of land into separate lots
or parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development.
   5.   “Zoning Administrator” means the County Zoning Administrator.
24.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF SYSTEM.
   The Board of Supervisors shall establish, by resolution, the type of Uniform
Rural Address System to be used in the County.
24.04 EXTENT OF SYSTEM.
   The Uniform Rural Address System shall extend over the entire unincorporated
areas of the County, except for those areas already using the system of a
nearby incorporated area. Unincorporated areas using an address system not
attached to an incorporated area are subject to the provisions of this chapter.
Any incorporated area, upon presentation of a written request from the
governing body of such city to the Board, may also be included in the Uniform
Rural Address System.
24.05 IMPLEMENTATION OF SYSTEM.
   The Board of Supervisors shall direct the E911 Coordinator to:
   1.   Verify the accuracy of the base map that shall be used in the
assignment of addresses.
   2.   Make all necessary corrections and updates to that map.
   3.   Assign addresses in accordance with the system selected by the Board of
Supervisors.
   4.   Purchase sign assembly materials which meet State Department of
Transportation specifications.
   5.   Develop, print, and distribute rural reference maps for rural emergency
providers, dispatchers, all County offices, emergency vehicles, the U.S. Post
Office, every rural residence, and the general public. (Street and Avenue
System only).
   6.   Notify post offices, rural emergency providers, dispatchers, emergency
vehicles, all County offices, and all providers and offices located in adjacent
counties whereby such districts overlap into the County of the effective date
of the system and the address assignments.
   7.   Send notification to all residents affected by this system. Such
notification shall state:
      A.   The date the system will take effect.
      B.   The date the post office and County departments will start using the
system.
      C.   The location and time when the individual address markers can be
obtained.
      D.   The date the markers shall be in place.
      E.   Where the markers shall be placed.
      F.   An explanation of the system and how to use it.
   8.   Distribute the markers.
24.06 ROAD MARKERS.
   The Zoning Administrator or E911 Coordinator shall supervise the
installation of road identification markers at each road intersection in the
County whereby the provisions of this chapter apply. Such markers shall be in
place on or before the date the system takes effect. (Street and avenue systems
only)
24.07 HOUSE NUMBERS.
   The County shall provide, at cost, a house number identification sign for
every person owning, controlling, occupying, or using any house, store,
storeroom, or building situated on premises fronting any public way as provided
in Section
24.04. This sign shall be a permanent marker on such premises. Any marker
indicating the assignment number existing at the time the provisions of this
chapter take effect and that is different from the newly assigned number shall
be removed at the time the new number is installed. The provisions of this
chapter do not apply to accessory buildings but may apply to such buildings
located on a separate unit of frontage, if requested by the owner or
proprietor. In case of conflicts concerning which buildings or structures
require a number, the decision of the E911 Coordinator shall decide.
24.08 NEW STRUCTURES.
   Every person erecting a building as set forth in the provisions of Section
24.07, but after the date the Uniform Rural Address System becomes effective,
shall, within seven days of commencement of construction, notify the Zoning
Administrator or the E911 Coordinator, who shall within 14 days assign a number
to such structure. The provisions of Section
24.05 and Section
24.07 are applicable to any person subject to the provisions of this section.
24.09 MAINTENANCE OF UNIFORM RURAL ADDRESS SYSTEM.
   The Zoning Administrator or E911 Coordinator is responsible for the
continued maintenance of the Uniform Rural Address System in the County. These
duties include assignment of all new addresses, providing markers for new
addresses, installing replacement markers, replacing street markers as needed
(street and avenue system only), in conjunction with the County Engineer,
updating maps, issuing new maps on an annual basis to the agencies and persons
provided for in Section
24.05(5) (street and avenue system only), making periodic checks of the rural
areas of the County to insure that the provisions of this chapter are being
complied with, and any other duties necessary to insure the continued
maintenance of the Uniform Rural Address System in the County. A fee for
replacement markers, covering the cost of said markers, shall be paid to the
County by the persons needing replacement markers.
24.10 PENALTY.
   Refusal to use the Uniform Rural Address System, or the removal, damaging,
defacing, alteration, or destruction of the Uniform Rural Address Marker which
indicates the assigned number of a premises, or the removal, damaging,
alteration, or destruction of a rural address system marker intentionally by
one who has no right to do so is a violation of this Code. In addition, any
violation of this chapter is a County infraction which is punishable as
provided in Section
1.11.
CHAPTER 25
METAL TIRES
 
25.01 Purpose                25.04 Projections on Wheels
25.02 Definitions            25.05 Exception
25.03 Metal Tires Prohibited
 
25.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to define and prohibit the use of metal tires
on highways.
25.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Highway” means the entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
   2.   “Metal tires” means every tire the surface of which in contact with the
highway is wholly or partly of metal or other hard, non-resilient material.
25.03 METAL TIRES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate or cause to be operated, or move or cause to be
moved on a paved or unpaved highway any motor vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer
having any metal tire or metal track in contact with the roadway.
25.04 PROJECTIONS ON WHEELS.
   No tire on a vehicle moving on a highway shall have on its periphery any
block, stud flange, cleat, or spike or any other protuberances of any material
other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction surface of
the tire, except that it shall be permissible to use:
   1.   Farm machinery with tires having protuberances which will not injure
the highway.
   2.   Tire chains of reasonable proportions upon any vehicle when required
for safety because of snow, ice, or other conditions tending to cause a vehicle
to skid.
   3.   Pneumatic tires with inserted ice grips or tire studs projecting not
more than one-sixteenth inch beyond the tread of the traction surface of the
tire upon any vehicle from November 1 of each year to April 1 of the following
year, except that a school bus and Fire Department emergency apparatus may use
such tires at any time.
25.05 EXCEPTION.
   The County Engineer shall review any application for a special permit and
may, with good cause being shown, issue special permits authorizing the
operation upon a highway of traction engines or tractors having movable tracks
with transverse corrugations upon the periphery of such movable tracks or farm
tractors or other farm machinery, the operation of which upon a highway would
otherwise be prohibited under this chapter.
CHAPTER 26
OFF-ROAD UTILITY VEHICLES
 
26.01 Purpose               26.04 Unlawful Operations
26.02 Definitions           26.05 Identification Stickers
26.03 Operation on Roadways 26.06 Exempt Vehicles
 
26.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to designate that portion of the County
highways upon which off-road utility vehicles may be operated during a
specified period, to specify said period, and to establish regulations
regarding such operations.
26.02 DEFINITIONS.
   1.   “All-terrain vehicle” means a motor vehicle designed to travel on three
or more wheels and designed primarily for off-road recreational use. All-
terrain vehicle includes off-road utility vehicles, but does not include farm
tractors or equipment, construction equipment, forestry vehicles, or lawn and
grounds maintenance vehicles.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(4))
   2.   “Off-road utility vehicle” means as defined in Section 321I.1 of the
Code of Iowa, means a motorized floatation-tire vehicle with no less than four
and not more than eight low pressure tires that is limited in engine
displacement to less than 1,500 cubic centimeter and in a total dry weight to
not more than 1,800 pounds and that has a seat of bucket or bench design, not
intended to be straddled by the operator, and the steering wheel or control
levers for control.
   3.   “Roadway” means, as defined in Section 3211.1 of the Code of Iowa, that
the portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for vehicle
travel.
   4.   “Secondary road” means, as defined in Section 306.3 of the Code of
Iowa, those roads under County jurisdiction.
26.03 OPERATION ON ROADWAYS.
   A registered off-road utility vehicle may be operated on any County
secondary roads, such operation limited to the secondary roads lying outside
the city limits of any incorporated city which does not have an ordinance or
other regulation in effect allowing such operation, and such operation further
limited to the hours from one hour before sunrise to one hour after sunset of
the same day, as established by the National Weather Service. No person shall
deface or damage any secondary road by intentionally operating the UTV in a
negligent or reckless manner. Paved roads shall not be used as the primary
travel route and operation is prohibited on all divided highways unless making
a direct crossing from a street, roadway, or highway on which the all-terrain
vehicle or off-road utility vehicle is authorized to operate to another. A
paved, undivided two-lane road may be used on the most direct and accessible
route between any of the following locations:
   1.   An all-terrain vehicle park or trail.
   2.   A city street on which such vehicles are authorized to operate.
   3.   Another secondary road on which such vehicles are authorized to
operate.
   4.   The vehicle operator’s residence.
26.04 UNLAWFUL OPERATIONS.
   1.   A person shall not drive or operate an off-road utility vehicle:
      A.   At a rate of speed in excess of the posted speed limit, nor greater
than reasonable or proper under all existing circumstances with a maximum speed
of 45 MPH.
      B.   In a careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to endanger the
person or property of another or to cause injury or damage thereto.
      C.   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotics or
habit-forming drugs or while in possession of an open container of alcohol.
      D.   Without lighted headlight and taillight at such times when
conditions provide insufficient lighting to render clearly discernible persons
and vehicles of 500 feet ahead.
      E.   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or
destroys growing stock.
      F.   On any public land, ice, or snow, in violation of official signs of
the Commission prohibiting such operation in the interest of safety for
persons, property, or the environment. Any officer appointed by the Commission
may post an official sign in an emergency for the protection of persons,
property, or the environment.
      G.   In any park, wildlife area, preserve, refuge, game management area,
or any portion of a meandered stream, or any portion of the bed of a non-
meandered stream, which has been identified as a navigable stream or river by
rule adopted by the department and which is covered by water, except on
designated riding areas and designated riding trails. This paragraph does not
prohibit the use of ford crossing of public roads or any other ford crossing
when used for agricultural purposes; the operation of construction vehicles
engaged in lawful construction, repair, or maintenance in a streambed; or the
operation of all-terrain vehicles on ice.
      H.   Upon an operating railroad right-of-way. An off-road utility vehicle
may be driven directly across a railroad right-of-way only at an established
crossing and notwithstanding any other provisions of law, may, if necessary,
use the improved portion of the established crossing after yielding to all
oncoming traffic. This paragraph does not apply to a law enforcement officers
or employee’s duties or to an employee of a utility with authority to enter
upon the railroad right-of-way in the lawful performance of the employee’s
duties.
   2.   A person shall not operate or ride in an off-road utility vehicle with
a firearm in the person’s possession unless it is unloaded and enclosed in a
carrying case or the person has a valid State issued weapons permit allowing
concealed carry.
   3.   A person shall not operate an off-road utility vehicle:
      A.   With more persons on the vehicle than it was designated to carry.
      B.   Paragraph A does not apply to a person who operates an off-road
utility vehicle as part of a farm operation as defined in Section 352.2 of the
Code of Iowa.
   4.   A person shall not operate an off-road utility vehicle on a designated
riding area or designated trail unless the riding area or trail is signed as
open to off-road utility vehicle operation.
   5.   A person shall not operate a vehicle other than an off-road utility
vehicle on a designated riding area or designated trail unless the riding area
or trail is signed as open to such other use.
   6.   A person shall not operate an off-road utility vehicle unless the
operator is 21 years of age or older and has a valid State driver’s license;
unless the vehicle is duly registered; and unless the operator has proof of
insurance complying with that required of the operator of a motor vehicle
pursuant to the applicable State statutes, rules, and regulations including,
but not limited to, Section 321.20B and 321A.21 of the Code of Iowa. A person
16 to 20 years of age with a valid driver’s license may operate the UTV under
the direct supervision of a person 21 years of age with a valid driver’s
license.
26.05 IDENTIFICATION STICKERS.
   Individuals who operate off-road vehicles on the roadways in the County must
register the off-road vehicle with the Iowa Department of Natural Resources
through a County Recorder’s office. The following conditions apply:
   1.   The owner of each off-road utility vehicle shall be required to provide
proof of ownership including, but not limited to, bill of sale, Iowa Department
of Natural Resources registration, or registration from the appropriate out-of-
state authority, and proof of liability insurance.
   2.   Off-road vehicles registered in State are required to display their
current registration decal and carry their certificate on board.
   3.   Off-road vehicles registered in another state are required to also
display a valid Iowa Department of Natural Resources User Permit in addition to
displaying their current registration decal and carrying their certificate on
board.
26.06 EXEMPT VEHICLES.
   Registration shall not be required for vehicles to be exempted under Section
321I.9(3) of the Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 30
COUNTY CONSERVATION BOARD PEACE OFFICERS
 
30.01 Purpose     30.03 Police Powers Conferred
30.02 Definitions
 
30.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter authorizes the County Conservation Board employees to exercise
law enforcement authority within and outside the County Conservation Board
Areas in the County.
30.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “County Conservation Board” means the County Conservation Board of
Marion County.
   2.   “Employee” means employees of the County Conservation Board.
30.03 POLICE POWERS CONFERRED.
   Employees of the County Conservation Board designated as police officers
under the provisions of Section 350.5 of the Code of Iowa, shall have all the
police powers conferred by law on police officers, peace officers, or Sheriffs
in the enforcement of the laws of the State and the apprehension of violators
thereof throughout the County for violations having occurred inside the County
Conservation Board Areas. For violations occurring outside County Conservation
Board Areas, said police officers shall be limited to enforcement of the
provisions of Chapters 321G, 321I, 461A, 462A, 481A, and 483A of the Code of
Iowa on land not under the control of the Board within the County.
CHAPTER 31
PARK REGULATIONS
 
31.01 Wilcox Wildlife Preserve 31.03 Posted Hours in Parks and Cemeteries
31.02 Cordova Park              
 
31.01 WILCOX WILDLIFE PRESERVE.
   It is unlawful for any person to enter the Wilcox Wildlife Preserve or to be
present in the Wilcox Wildlife Preserve in possession of snowmobiles,
motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles, or any other recreational vehicles; or with
the intent of riding a snowmobile, motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle, or any
other recreational vehicle in that area.
31.02 CORDOVA PARK.
   It is unlawful for any person to jump or dive from any rock ledges, cliffs,
or natural outcroppings of any kind located, within the boundaries of Cordova
Park, into the waters of Lake Red Rock.
31.03 POSTED HOURS IN PARKS AND CEMETERIES.
   It is unlawful for any person or vehicle to be in or on any cemetery or park
grounds at any time contrary to posted signs plainly legible at the entrance of
such cemetery or park.
CHAPTER 32
MARION COUNTY COURTHOUSE
 
32.01 Definitions        32.04 Skateboards and Other Devices
32.02 Courthouse Parking 32.05 All-Terrain Vehicles
32.03 Curfew              
 
32.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “All-terrain vehicle” or “ATV” means a motorized vehicle, with not less
than three and not more than six non-highway tires, that is limited in engine
displacement to less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to
less than 1,200 pounds and that has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled
by the operator and handlebars for steering control.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   2.   “Authorized persons” means any employee working in the County
Courthouse, any contractor or supplier having official business in the
courthouse, or any other person having official business in the Courthouse,
including persons having business in the Sheriff’s Office for the purpose of
reporting or assisting in the investigation of possible criminal activity. With
regard to Section 32.02, “authorized person” also includes any person
specifically assigned a parking space by the Board of Supervisors.
   3.   “Grounds of the County Courthouse” means that property located in
Knoxville, Iowa, owned by the County and bordered to the north by Main Street,
to the east by Third Street, to the south by Robinson Street, and to the west
by Second Street.
   4.   “Minor” means any unemancipated person below the age of 18 years.
   5.   “Skateboard” means a board mounted upon wheels and usually propelled by
the user who sometimes stands, sits, kneels, or lies upon the device while it
is in motion.
   6.   “Unauthorized persons” means any person who does not fall within the
definition of authorized persons.
   7.   “Wheeling” or “sliding devices” means and includes (but are not limited
to) skateboards, roller skates, in-line skates, bicycles, or any other device
containing wheels which can be ridden on or otherwise utilized by an individual
in order to move about other than walking. This definition does not include use
of a wheelchair, stroller, or similar devices used for the purpose of helping
persons elderly, disabled, handicapped, infants, or others needing assistance
in moving from place to place.
32.02 COURTHOUSE PARKING.
   The purpose of this section is to regulate parking in the area of the Marion
County Courtyard that lies within the perimeter of the sidewalks.
   1.   Prohibited Parking by Unauthorized Persons. It is unlawful for any
unauthorized person to park or allow a vehicle owned by such person to be
parked on any portion of the courtyard of the County Courthouse between the
hours of 6:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, unless the courthouse
is closed for business.
   2.   Prohibited Parking by Authorized Persons. It is unlawful for any
authorized person to park or allow such person’s vehicle to be parked in any
parking space in the courtyard of the County Courthouse reserved for some other
officer or authorized person.
32.03 CURFEW.
   The purpose of this section is to regulate, by the establishment of a
curfew, the hours that unauthorized persons may be or remain on the grounds of
the County Courthouse.
   1.   Time Limits.
      A.   Minors. It is unlawful for any minor to be present upon the grounds
of the County Courthouse, including the building thereon, between the hours of
12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.
      B.   Unauthorized Persons. It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to
be or remain within the County Courthouse between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m. of the following day.
   2.   Exceptions. The time restrictions contained herein do not apply to any
authorized persons having official business at the County Courthouse or to any
public employee engaged in the performance of his or her duties.
32.04 SKATEBOARDS AND OTHER DEVICES.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate or attempt to operate a skateboard
or other wheeling or sliding device on the grounds of the County Courthouse.
32.05 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   The use of all-terrain vehicles at the County Fairgrounds is restricted to
all-terrain vehicles used in conjunction with the Knoxville Raceway and
operated solely within the raceway area, which is bordered by a wooden
perimeter fence, or in designated pit areas. In addition, the operation of all-
terrain vehicles at the Knoxville Raceway is subject to Chapter 321I of the
Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 33
CONTROLLED OPEN BURNING
 
33.01 Purpose                                 33.05 Compliance
33.02 Definitions                             33.06 Enforcement
33.03 Regulatory Authority                    33.07 Penalties
33.04 Restrictions on Controlled Open Burning  
 
33.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the safety and welfare of
residents and property in the County during controlled open burning and to
define the provisions and procedures for implementing penalties for
noncompliance.
33.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Building” means any roofed or walled structure built for temporary or
permanent use.
   2.   “Controlled open burning” means the intentional setting of a fire to
dispose of property, or for the maintenance of brush, grass, or farmlands, or
for any other lawful purpose in the County, outside the corporate limits of
cities within the County.
   3.   “Fire suppression” means providing an ample water supply to spray or
dump water directly onto a fire for suppression and control or having equipment
available to impede the progress of a fire. Equipment may be farm machinery,
farm implements, or other general equipment or implements capable of creating a
firebreak to suppress or control a fire.
33.03 REGULATORY AUTHORITY.
   The authorities responsible for implementation and enforcement of this
chapter are the Sheriff’s Department, the Fire Chief of the individual fire
district in which a fire is located within the County, or the Coordinator for
the County Emergency Management Office, and those officers are hereby
authorized to issue civil citations for the violation of this chapter. The
Emergency Management Coordinator is designated to receive and disburse funds
collected for violation of this chapter.
33.04 RESTRICTIONS ON CONTROLLED OPEN BURNING.
   Any person who intentionally ignites a fire shall provide fire suppression
sufficient to control the fire from spreading out of control. The fire
suppression method shall be in place prior to ignition of the fire. Other than
the supervised use of outdoor fireplaces, barbecue grills, properly supervised
landfills, or the burning of trash incinerators or trash burners made of metal,
concrete, masonry, or heavy one-inch wire mesh with no openings greater than
one inch square, all persons engaging in open burning shall be required to give
notification to the Sheriff’s Office prior to the controlled open burn.
Notification shall be given as to the name, address, location, and time when
the controlled burn is to take place and the fire suppression methods utilized.
Any person who fails to give proper notification to the proper authorities
prior to the controlled open burn may be found in noncompliance with this
chapter.
33.05 COMPLIANCE.
   In the event additional fire suppression is requested or required from the
jurisdictional fire department to extinguish any fire that is out of control,
the person responsible for the controlled open burn will be deemed to be in
noncompliance with this chapter.
33.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   In the event additional help is requested or required from the
jurisdictional fire department to extinguish a controlled fire, an officer of
the Sheriff’s Office shall be dispatched to the scene of the fire to file a
report of the incident. If after investigation and a finding that fire
suppression was not sufficiently provided for prior to the ignition of the
fire, or the fire was out of control, or entered upon another person’s
property, the person responsible for the fire may be cited for noncompliance
with this chapter.
33.07 PENALTIES.
   Penalties collected for noncompliance of this chapter shall, to the extent
provided by law, be payable to the County Emergency Management Agency for
deposit into a fund for reimbursement to the individual fire departments for
their response to the fire scene.
CHAPTER 34
FIREWORKS
 
34.01 Purpose                           34.04 Permissible Discharge of
                                        Fireworks
34.02 Definitions                       34.05 County Infractions
34.03 Discharge of Fireworks Prohibited 34.06 Scope
 
34.01 PURPOSE.
   The General Assembly of the State has taken measures to allow the sale of
and use of consumer fireworks within the State. The legislation further allows
for local governments to prohibit such use by ordinance or resolution. The
County has deemed the use of fireworks as a threat to public safety and a
nuisance to landowners and therefore prohibits the discharge and use of
fireworks within the unincorporated areas of the County.
34.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions which
are deemed to be nuisances in the County:
   1.   “APA 87-1” means the American Pyrotechnics Association Standard 87-1,
as published December, 2001.
   2.   “Fireworks” means any device, other than a novelty or theatrical
pyrotechnic article, intended to produce visible or audible effects by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation. APA 87 -1, Section 2.7.
   3.   “First-class consumer fireworks” means the following consumer
fireworks, as described in APA 87-1, Chapter 3:
      A.   Aerial shell kits and reloadable tubes.
      B.   Chasers.
      C.   Helicopter and aerial spinners.
      D.   Firecrackers.
      E.   Mine and shell devices.
      F.   Missile-type rockets.
      G.   Roman candles.
      H.   Skyrockets and bottle rockets.
      I.   Multiple tube firework devices and pyrotechnic articles as described
and manufactured in accordance with APA 87-1, Section 3.5.
   4.   “Second-class consumer fireworks” means the following consumer
fireworks, as described in APA 87-1, Chapter 3:
      A.   Cone fountains.
      B.   Cylindrical fountains.
      C.   Flitter sparklers.
      D.   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices, including multiple tube
ground and hand-held sparkling devices that are manufactured in accordance with
APA 87-1, Section 3.5.
      E.   Ground spinners.
      F.   Illuminating torches.
      G.   Toy smoke devices that are not classified as novelties pursuant to
APA 87-1, Section 3.2.
      H.   Wheels.
      I.   Wire or dipped sparklers that are not classified as novelties
pursuant to APA 87-1, Section 3.2.
   5.   “Novelties” means the following devices as described in APA 87-1,
Section 3.2:
      A.   Party poppers.
      B.   Snapper.
      C.   Toy smoke devices.
      D.   Snakes and glow worms.
      E.   Wire sparklers and dipped sticks.
   6.   “Theatrical pyrotechnical articles” means pyrotechnic devise for
professional use in the entertainment industry similar to consumer fireworks in
chemical composition and construction but not intended for consumer use.
34.03 DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   It is a violation of this chapter to discharge fireworks, including all
first-class and second-class consumer fireworks within the unincorporated areas
of the County without prior County approval and obtaining any required permits
as required by local, State, or federal law. This prohibition is subject to
Section 34.04. The discharge or use of novelties is not prohibited. Nothing in
this chapter prohibits the use of theatrical pyrotechnical articles for
professional use.
34.04 PERMISSIBLE DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS.
   Fireworks, first-class and second-class consumer fireworks, may be
discharged within unincorporated areas of the County on the following dates:
   1.   July 3 between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
      A.   Except when July 3 falls on a Saturday or Sunday preceding July 4,
in which fireworks shall be allowed between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 11:00
p.m.
   2.   July 4 between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.
   3.   December 31 between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 12:30 a.m. on the
immediately following day.
   4.   The discharge or fireworks is subject to the following restrictions:
      A.   Fireworks may only be discharged on personal private property by the
property owner or lawful tenant or with the permission of the property owner or
lawful tenant physically present.
      B.   Persons discharging fireworks must be 18 years old or older.
      C.   Persons discharging fireworks must not have a blood-alcohol content
over .08 as measured on a PBT or Datamaster instrument or as measured in blood
or urine, regardless of any margin for error; or otherwise, be under the
influence of alcohol, or simulating intoxication.
      D.   Persons discharging fireworks must not be under the influence of a
controlled substance or drug.
      E.   Fireworks are not allowed to be discharged at private parks, private
campgrounds, cemeteries, or sidewalks, regardless of ownership.
      F.   Fireworks are not allowed to be discharged within 200 yards of any
school, hospital, nursing home, veterinary clinic, or animal shelter.
      G.   Fireworks are not allowed to be discharged within 200 yards of any
utility. For this subsection, utility means all or part of a waterworks,
gasworks, sanitary sewage system, stormwater drainage system, electric light
and power plant system, heating plant, cable communication or television
system, telephone or telecommunication systems, or any combination of services
previously listed whether owned publicly or privately, including all land,
easements, rights-of-way, fixtures, equipment, accessories, improvements,
appurtenances, and other property necessary or useful for the operation of the
utility.
      H.   The discharge of fireworks is strictly prohibited when a burn ban is
in effect for the County, without exception.
34.05 COUNTY INFRACTIONS.
   The provisions of Section
1.11 shall be applicable for enforcement of violations to this chapter.
34.06 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced in all unincorporated areas
of the County.
CHAPTER 40
GENERAL ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH REGULATIONS
40.01 Definitions                    40.09 Nuisances Prohibited
40.02 Garbage and Refuse             40.10 Abatement of a Nuisance
40.03 Septic Tank Effluence          40.11 Cost of Abating Nuisance
40.04 Health Hazard                  40.12 Interference with Enforcement
40.05 Open Dumping Prohibited        40.13 Refusal of Admittance
40.06 Sanitary Disposal Required     40.14 Appeal
40.07 Rodent, Pest, Vector Harborage 40.15 Non-Inhabitation Procedure
40.08 Emergency Conditions           40.16 County Infractions
 
40.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “County EH Department” means the County Environmental Health
Department, located in the County Public Health Department, Environmental
Health Program Office.
   2.   “Designee” means any or all person or persons appointed, employed, or
named by the Board of Health.
   3.   “Garbage” means any putrescible organic waste resulting from the
handling, preparation, and consumption of food or of material intended for use
as food.
   4.   “Health hazard” means any condition, structure, or object, which can or
has the potential to cause injury or sickness to human or animal life, or to
the environment.
   5.   “Nuisance” means whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or
offensive to the senses or an obstacle to the free use of property so as
essentially to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
This shall include all definitions in Section 657.2 of the Code of Iowa.
   6.   “Open dumping” means the depositing of solid wastes on the surface of
the ground or into a body or stream of water.
   7.   “Pest” or “vector harborage” means any condition that provides shelter,
food source, infestation vehicle for insects or parasites, thus favoring their
multiplication and continued existence in, under, or outside any structure
which may cause a public health hazard.
   8.   “Rat harborage” means any condition which provides shelter or
protections for rodents, thus favoring their multiplication and continued
existence in, under, or outside any structure.
   9.   “Refuse” means putrescible and nonputrescible wastes, including, but
not limited to, garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator residues, street
cleanings, and market and industrial solid wastes.
   10.   “Sanitary Disposal Project” means all facilities and appurtenances,
including all real and personal property connected with such facilities, which
are acquired, purchased, constructed, reconstructed, equipped, improved,
extended, maintained, or operated to facilitate the final disposition of solid
waste without creating a significant hazard to the public health or safety, and
which are approved by the Executive Director of the Department of Natural
Resources.
   11.   “Solid waste” means garbage, refuse, and other similar discarded solid
or semi-solid materials, including, but not limited to, such materials
resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic activities.
Solid waste may include vehicles, as defined by Subsection 1 of Section 321.1
of the Code of Iowa.
40.02 GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   No owner or lessee of any public or private premises shall permit to
accumulate upon their premises any garbage or refuse except in covered
containers meeting County specifications. Such containers shall be constructed
in such a manner as to be strong, not easily corrodible, rodent proof, insect
proof, and shall be kept covered at all times except when garbage and refuse is
being deposited therein or removed there from.
40.03 SEPTIC TANK EFFLUENCE.
   No person shall allow the discharge of effluence from a septic tank or drain
field or ponding of polluted water over an overloaded or non-operating drain
field or to a waterway or the ground surface.
40.04 HEALTH HAZARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create a “health hazard” as defined,
or permit to accumulate on any premises, improved or vacant, or on any public
place, such quantities of solid waste or refuse, either in containers or not,
that shall constitute a health or sanitation hazard.
40.05 OPEN DUMPING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall dump or deposit or permit the open dumping or depositing of
any solid waste at any place other than a sanitary landfill facility, unless a
special permit to dump or deposit solid waste on land owned or leased by such
person has been obtained from the Department of Natural Resources. However,
this section does not prohibit the use of dirt, stone, brick, or similar
inorganic material for fill, landscaping, excavation, or grading at places
other than a sanitary disposal project.
40.06 SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of each owner to provide for the sanitary disposal of
all refuse accumulating on the owner’s premises before it becomes a nuisance.
Any such accumulation remaining on any premises for a period of more than 30
days shall be deemed a nuisance.
40.07 RODENT, PEST, VECTOR HARBORAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, leave, dump, or permit to
accumulate any garbage, rubbish, or trash in any structure or on any property
so that the same may afford food or harborage for rodents, insects, parasites,
and other vector pests that may cause a public health hazard. Upon receipt of a
written notice or order from the Board of Health, the owner of any property
specified therein shall take immediate measures for rodent control. In the
event such control measures are not instigated within the time designated, the
Board of Health may instigate condemnation and destruction proceedings or
proceed to abate the condition as outlined in the nuisance Sections
40.09 through
40.11.
40.08 EMERGENCY CONDITIONS.
   In case of a natural disaster or other emergency conditions, as established
by the Board of Supervisors, special disposal procedures may be implemented by
resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
40.09 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited. While the Board of
Health, or designees, can make recommendations and referrals (to other
policies, regulations, agencies, or persons) to help on nuisances evaluated as
non-public health hazards, the Board of Health only has a responsibility to
assure that public health hazards are addressed, and only has primary
jurisdiction addressing those issues that only constitute a public health
hazard, unless a formal contract or agreement has been issued between such
parties.
40.10 ABATEMENT OF A NUISANCE.
   The Board of Health may order the owner, occupant, or person in charge of
any property, building, or other place to remove, at their own expense any
nuisance, source of filth, cause of sickness, or health hazard found thereon by
serving upon said person a written notice stating some reasonable time within
which such removal shall be made, and if such person fails to comply with said
notice, the Board of Health may cause the same to be executed at the expense of
the owner or occupant.
40.11 COST OF ABATING NUISANCE.
   All expenses incurred by the Board of Health in proceeding to abate a
nuisance may be recovered by suit in the name of the Board of Health, or the
Board of Health may certify the amount of said expenses, together with a
description of the property to the County Treasurer who shall enter the same
upon the tax books as costs for removing a nuisance and said amount shall be
collected as other taxes.
40.12 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   No person shall interfere with members of the Board of Health, or designees,
members of the County EH Department, or peace officers in the discharge of any
duty imposed by law or the regulations of the Board of Health.
40.13 REFUSAL OF ADMITTANCE.
   In case any member of the Board of Health, or designees, or a member of the
County EH Department shall be refused entry to any place, request may be made
under oath to any court or competent jurisdiction and said court shall
thereupon issue its order authorizing any member of the Board of Health, or
designees, or the County EH Department to enter such place for the purpose of
examining any possible nuisance, source of filth, source of sickness, or health
hazard.
40.14 APPEAL.
   Any person who feels aggrieved by any notice or order made by the Board of
Health, or designees, or the County EH Department shall have the right to
appeal to the Board of Health at the next regular meeting of the Board of
Health. The Board of Health, by majority vote, shall modify, withdraw, or order
compliance with said order.
40.15 NON-INHABITATION PROCEDURE.  
   Any structure, object, or dwelling that has been deemed a health and safety
hazard by definition by the Board of Health, or designees, or whenever a
building or structure, used or intended to be used for dwelling purposes,
because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay, damage, faulty
construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation facilities, or
otherwise, is determined by any health officer to be a public health hazard and
unfit for human habitation shall follow the following procedure:
   1.   Notice To Owner. The County EH Department office or other Board of
Health designees, shall examine or cause to be examined every reported
potential health hazard; if such is found to be a health hazard defined in this
chapter or determined by assessment by a licensed structural engineer, the
County EH Department or other Board of Health designee shall give to the owner
of such parcel, building, or structure written notice stating the nature of the
health hazard. This notice may require the owner or person within 48 hours or
such reasonable time as the circumstances require to abate the health hazard
and all such work shall be completed within 90 days from the date of notice,
unless otherwise stipulated. If necessary, such notice shall also require any
building, structure, or portion thereof to be vacated forthwith and not
reoccupied until the required repairs and improvements are completed,
inspected, and approved.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 331.384(2))
   2.   Notice Served. Such notice shall be served by sending by certified mail
to owner of record, according to Section 331.384(2) of the Code of Iowa. The
designated period within which said owner or person in charge is required to
comply with the order shall begin as of the date the owner receives such
notice. If certified mail is not accepted or a viable option, then personal
service by a public safety officer shall be performed.
   3.   Hearing. Such notice shall also advise the owner that they may request
a hearing before the Board of Health by filing a written request for hearing
within the time provided in the notice.
   4.   Posting of Signs. The County EH Department or other Board of Health
designees shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such building a notice
to read: “DO NOT ENTER. UNSAFE TO OCCUPY. COUNTY OF MARION, IOWA.” Such notice
shall remain posted until the required repairs, demolition, or removal are
completed. Such notice shall not be removed without written permission, and no
person shall enter the building except for the purpose of making the required
repairs or of demolishing the building.
40.16 COUNTY INFRACTIONS.
   If the violation is not corrected, the County may seek such remedies, civil
or criminal, as are authorized by the law including, but not limited to, the
provisions of Section
1.11 for County Infractions.
CHAPTER 41
 NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
 
41.01 Definition of Nuisance    41.08 Request for Hearing
41.02 Nuisances Enumerated      41.09 Abatement in Emergency
41.03 Nuisances Prohibited      41.10 Abatement by County
41.04 Adult Establishments      41.11 Collection of Costs
41.05 Nuisance Abatement        41.12 Hearing on Costs
41.06 Notice to Abate: Contents 41.13 Failure to Abate
41.07 Method of Service          
 
41.01 DEFINITION OF NUISANCE.
   Whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or unreasonably offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is a
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.1)
41.02 NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions which
are deemed to be nuisances in the County:
   1.   Offensive Smells. Erecting, continuing, or using any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture, which, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, unreasonably offensive smells, or other
annoyances, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort, or property
of individuals or the public.
   2.   Filth or Noisome Substance. Causing or suffering any offal, filth, or
noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place to the prejudice of
others.
   3.   Impeding Passage of Navigable River. Obstructing or impeding without
legal authority the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or collection of
water.
   4.   Water Pollution. Corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the
water of any river, stream, or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from its
natural course or state, to the injury or prejudice of others.
   5.   Blocking Public and Private Ways. Obstructing or encumbering, by
fences, buildings or otherwise, the public roads, private ways, streets,
alleys, commons, landing places, or burying grounds.
   6.   Billboards. Billboards, signboards, and advertising signs, whether
erected and constructed on public or private property, which so obstruct and
impair the view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway,
boulevard, or alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render
dangerous the use thereof. (See also
Chapter 55)
   7.   Air Pollution. Emission of dense smoke, noxious fumes, or fly ash.
   8.   Hazardous Trees. Trees infected with communicable disease, or pose a
risk to public health, safety, general welfare, or to the preservation of tree
resources. Tree is a perennial plant greater than 15 feet at maturity.
   9.   Airport Air Space. Any object or structure hereafter erected within
1,000 feet of the limits of any municipal or regularly established airport or
landing place, which may endanger or obstruct aerial navigation including take-
off and landing, unless such object or structure constitutes a proper use or
enjoyment of the land on which the same is located.
   10.   Houses of Ill Fame. Houses of ill fame, kept for the purpose of
prostitution and lewdness; gambling houses; places resorted to by persons
participating in criminal gang activity prohibited by Chapter 723A of the Code
of Iowa, or places resorted to by persons using controlled substances, as
defined in Section 124.101 of the Code of Iowa, in violation of law, or houses
where drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, or breaches of the peace are carried
on or permitted to the disturbance of others.
   11.   Septic Tank Effluence. Effluence from a septic tank or drain field or
ponding of polluted water over an overloaded or non-operating drain field or to
a waterway or the ground surface.
   12.   Damaged Buildings. All buildings, walls, and other structures which
have been damaged by fire, decay, or otherwise to such an extent that the same
endanger the safety of the public.
   13.   Unsanitary Storage. Any use of property or any storage or disposal of
any materials and substances of any nature whatsoever on such property which
creates an unsanitary, immoral, or unsafe condition on such property, or which
endangers the free use and enjoyment of property by adjoining owners, or which
creates any condition injurious to the public health, safety, comfort, or
morals.
   14.   Debris In Right-of-Way. Any discharge of liquid or placing of rocks,
trees, snow, mud, or debris within the right-of-way of public roadways which
may prove to be a safety hazard, be offensive, or interfere with the
maintenance of the public roadway and right-of-way.
41.03 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited, and a nuisance,
public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in this chapter or
State law.
41.04 ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS.
   1.   As used in this section, “adult establishment” means any business that
provides nude or topless dancing or operates any other adult-oriented business.
   2.   A public safety nuisance exists when it is established by clear and
convincing evidence that an owner, manager, employee, contemporaneous patron,
or guest of an adult establishment commits any of the following acts either on
the premises or in any parking lots or areas, including but not limited to
public rights-of-way, adjacent to the premises:
      A.   Unlawfully discharges a firearm or uses an offensive weapon, as
defined in Section 724.1 of the Code of Iowa, regardless of whether it inflicts
injury or death.
      B.   Assaults another person with a dangerous weapon as defined in
Section 702.7 of the Code of Iowa resulting in injury or death.
      C.   Engages in a riot as defined in Section 723.1 of the Code of Iowa on
three or more dates within a 12-month period to which the police respond and
disperse a crowd. The participants need not be the same persons for each
incident.
   3.   When the County Attorney believes a serious threat to the public safety
exists, the County Attorney or any other attorney on behalf of the County
Attorney, may file a suit in equity in the district court without bond seeking
abatement of the public safety nuisance arising from an adult establishment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.12)
41.05 NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   Whenever a nuisance is found to exist, the County Attorney shall cause to be
served upon the property owner a written notice to abate the nuisance within a
reasonable time after notice.
41.06 NOTICE TO ABATE: CONTENTS.
   The notice to abate shall contain:
   1.   A description of what constitutes the nuisance.
   2.   The location of the nuisance.
   3.   A statement of the act or acts necessary to abate the nuisance.
   4.   A reasonable time within which to complete the abatement.
   5.   A statement that if the nuisance or condition is not abated as directed
and no request for hearing is made within the time prescribed, the County will
abate it and assess the costs against such person.
   6.   A statement that the person to whom the notice is directed has a right
to request a hearing.
   7.   A statement that the request for a hearing must be made in writing and
delivered to the County Auditor within the time stated in the notice.
   8.   A statement that, in the absence of a timely request for a hearing, it
will be conclusively presumed that a nuisance exists and must be abated as
ordered.
41.07 METHOD OF SERVICE.
   The notice may be served in the same manner as personal service under State
law or sent by certified mail to the property owner.
41.08 REQUEST FOR HEARING.
   Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a hearing before the Board
of Supervisors to determine whether a nuisance exists, to request a change in
the requirements necessary to abate the nuisance, or to request an extension of
time for the prescribed abatement. A request for a hearing must be made in
writing and delivered to the County Auditor within the time stated in the
notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that a nuisance exists, and it must
be abated as ordered. The hearing will be before the Board of Supervisors at a
time and place fixed by the Board of Supervisors. The requesting party shall be
notified of the hearing’s time and place by the Board of Supervisors. The
findings of the Board of Supervisors shall be conclusive, and the requesting
party shall be notified immediately of the Board of Supervisors findings. If a
nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered abated within a reasonable time
under the circumstances.
41.09 ABATEMENT IN EMERGENCY.
   If it is determined that an emergency exists by reason of the continuing
maintenance of the nuisance or condition, the County may perform any action
which may be required under this chapter without prior notice.
41.10 ABATEMENT BY COUNTY.
   If the person notified to abate a nuisance or condition neglects or fails to
abate as directed, the County may perform the required action to abate, keeping
an accurate account of the expense incurred.
41.11 COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   The County Auditor shall send a statement of the total expense incurred by
certified mail to the property owner who has failed to abide by the notice to
abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has not been paid within one
month, the County Auditor shall certify the costs to the County Treasurer and
such costs shall then be collected with, and in the same manner, as general
property taxes.
41.12 HEARING ON COST.
   Any person ordered to make payment under this chapter may have a hearing
with the Board of Supervisors as to the accuracy of the statement of costs. A
request for a hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the County
Auditor within the time stated in the statement of costs, or it will be
conclusively presumed that the statement of costs is accurate and must be paid
as ordered. The findings of the Board of Supervisors shall be conclusive.
41.13 FAILURE TO ABATE.
   Any person causing or maintaining a nuisance who shall fail or refuse to
abate or remove the same within the reasonable time required and specified in
the notice to abate is in violation of this Code.
CHAPTER 42
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE SPILLS
 
42.01 Purpose                     42.05 Notifications
42.02 Definitions                 42.06 Police Authority
42.03 Cleanup Required            42.07 Liability
42.04 Liability for Cleanup Costs  
 
42.01 PURPOSE.
   In order to reduce the danger to the public health, safety, and welfare from
the leaks and spills of hazardous substances, these regulations are promulgated
to establish responsibility for the treatment, removal, and cleanup of
hazardous substance spills within the County.
42.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Cleanup” means actions necessary to contain, collect, control,
identify, analyze, clean up, treat, disperse, remove, or dispose of a hazardous
substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381(1))
   2.   “Hazardous condition” means any situation involving the actual,
imminent, or probable spillage, leakage, or release of a hazardous substance
onto the land, into a water of the State or into the atmosphere which creates
an immediate or potential danger to the public health or safety or to the
environment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381(4))
   3.   “Hazardous substance” means any substance or mixture of substances that
presents a danger to the public health or safety and includes, but is not
limited to, a substance that is toxic, corrosive, or flammable, or that is an
irritant or that generates pressure through decomposition, heat, or other
means. “Hazardous substance” may include any hazardous waste identified or
listed by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency under the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended by the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, or any toxic pollutant listed under
Section 307 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1,
1977, or any hazardous substance designated under Section 311 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1, 1977, or any hazardous
material designated by the Secretary of Transportation under the Hazardous
Materials Transportation Act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381(5))
   4.   “Responsible person” means a person who at any time produces, handles,
stores, uses, transports, refines, or disposes of a hazardous substance, the
release of which creates a hazardous condition, including bailees, carriers,
and any other person in control of a hazardous substance when a hazardous
condition occurs, whether the person owns the hazardous substance or is
operating under a lease, contract, or other agreement with the legal owner of
the hazardous substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381(7))
42.03   CLEANUP REQUIRED.
   Whenever a hazardous condition is created by the deposit, injection,
dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of a hazardous substance, so that the
hazardous substance or a constituent of the hazardous substance may enter the
environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including
ground waters, the responsible person shall cause the condition to be remedied
by a cleanup, as defined in the preceding section, as rapidly as feasible to an
acceptable, safe condition. The costs of cleanup shall be borne by the
responsible person. If the responsible person does not cause the cleanup to
begin in a reasonable time in relation to the hazard and circumstances of the
incident, the County may, by an authorized officer, give reasonable notice,
based on the character of the hazardous condition, said notice setting a
deadline for accomplishing the cleanup and stating that the County will proceed
to procure cleanup services and bill the responsible person for all costs
associated with the cleanup if the cleanup is not accomplished within the
deadline. In the event that it is determined that immediate cleanup is
necessary as a result of the present danger to the public health, safety, and
welfare, then no notice shall be required and the County may proceed to procure
the cleanup and bill the responsible person for all costs associated with the
cleanup. If the bill for those services is not paid within 30 days, the County
Attorney shall proceed to obtain payment by all legal means. If the cost of the
cleanup is beyond the capacity of the County to finance it, the authorized
officer shall report to the Board of Supervisors and immediately seek any State
or federal funds available for said cleanup.
42.04 LIABILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS.
   The responsible person shall be strictly liable to the County for all of the
following:
   1.   The reasonable cleanup costs incurred by the County, or the agents of
the County, as a result of the failure of the responsible person to clean up a
hazardous substance involved in a hazardous condition.
   2.   The reasonable costs incurred by the County, or the agents of the
County to evacuate people from the area threatened by a hazardous condition
caused by the person.
   3.   The reasonable damages to the County for the injury to, destruction of,
or loss of County property, including parks and roads, resulting from a
hazardous condition caused by that person, including the costs of assessing the
injury, destruction, or loss.
   4.   The excessive and extraordinary cost incurred by the County, or the
agents of the County, in responding at and to the scene of a hazardous
condition caused by that person.
42.05 NOTIFICATIONS.
   1.   A person manufacturing, storing, handling, transporting, or disposing
of a hazardous substance shall notify the State Department of Natural Resources
and the Sheriff’s Department of the occurrence of a hazardous condition as soon
as possible but not later than six hours after the onset of the hazardous
condition or discovery of the hazardous condition. The Sheriff’s Department
shall immediately notify the Department of Natural Resources.
   2.   Any other person who discovers a hazardous condition shall notify the
Sheriff’s Department or Emergency Management Agency, which shall then notify
the Department of Natural Resources.
42.06 POLICE AUTHORITY.
   If the circumstances reasonably so require, the law enforcement officer or
an authorized representative may:
   1.   Evacuate persons from their homes to areas away from the site of a
hazardous condition, and
   2.   Establish perimeters or other boundaries at or near the site of a
hazardous condition and limit access to cleanup personnel.
   No person shall disobey an order of any law enforcement officer issued under
this section.
42.07 LIABILITY.
   The County shall not be liable to any person for claims of damages,
injuries, or losses resulting from any hazardous condition, unless the County
is the responsible person as defined in Section
42.02(4).
CHAPTER 43
NONPUBLIC WATER WELLS
 
43.01 Purpose              43.06 Abandoned Wells
43.02 Definitions          43.07 Closed Circuit Vertical Heat Exchangers
43.03 General Requirements 43.08 Appeal
43.04 Permit Requirements  43.09 County Infractions
43.05 Inspection            
 
43.01 PURPOSE.
   To protect the health of County residents by protecting the quality of
drinking water from nonpublic water wells or by implementing State standards
for nonpublic water fairly.
43.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “County EH Department” means the Marion County Environmental Health
Department, located in the Marion County Public Health Department,
Environmental Health Program Office.
   2.   “Nonpublic water well” means any well having fewer than 15 service
connections or serving water to fewer than 25 people.
   3.   “Water well” means an excavation that is drilled, cased, bored,
augured, washed, driven, dug, jetted, or otherwise constructed for accessing
ground water.
43.03 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Safe Water Supply Required. Any dwelling or structure occupied by
humans located within the County shall have an approved, safe water supply or
system for human consumption.
   2.   State Code Adopted. All nonpublic water wells constructed or undergoing
major rehabilitation or reconstruction in the County, after the effective date
of these regulations, shall meet all standards and specifications established
in the latest edition of the Iowa Administrative Code 567, Chapter 49
“Nonpublic Water Wells” as well as regulations promulgated in this chapter of
the Board of Health Regulations.
   3.   Permit Required. Before any nonpublic water well is constructed, or
existing well reconstructed, a permit shall be obtained from the County EH
Department and inspection of the site shall be performed.
43.04 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Application. Any person desiring a permit shall file with the County EH
Department an application on forms available at the office. Said application
shall state the owner’s name and address, location of the well, and such other
information as is required by the Board of Health and the Iowa Administrative
Code 567, Chapter 38. All other requirements of said Chapter 38 shall also be
met.
   2.   Permit Fee. Upon approval of the application by the County EH
Department, the permit shall be issued following the payment of a fee set by
the Board of Health, made payable to the County EH Department.
      A.   An additional permit fee set by the Iowa Department of Natural
Resources in an amount prescribed by that organization, by adoption of the Code
of Iowa, shall also be paid.
   3.   Permit Posted. The permit shall be maintained on the site before and
during construction.
   4.   Validity. Permits shall be valid for a maximum of 12 months from the
date of issuance, during which time the nonpublic water well shall be
completed.
43.05 INSPECTION.
   1.   Notification. A site inspection shall be done by the County EH
Department prior to beginning construction. A second inspection is required
upon completion of the well. Both inspections shall be performed by the County
EH Department who shall be notified not less than 24 hours, between the hours
of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except County observed
holidays, before the final inspection is to be performed.
   2.   Construction Details. Upon completion of the well, the contractor shall
supply well construction details to the County EH Department by completion and
submission of the Well Record required by the Iowa Department of Natural
Resources. The Well Record contains an area for the well contractor to mark the
exact location of the well. This location shall be dimensioned from two fixed
corners of the dwelling or other structure or other permanent landmark(s).
   3.   Disinfection and Analysis. Following construction, the well shall be
disinfected. Before the well water is used, a water sample shall be sent to the
University Hygienic Laboratory or other approved laboratory and analyzed for
bacteria and nitrates. The well may not be used until the County EH Department
has received a copy of the lab report certifying the safety of the water.
43.06 ABANDONED WELLS.
   All abandoned wells within the County shall be plugged according to the
requirements and schedule set forth in the Iowa Administrative Code 567,
Chapter 39.
43.07 CLOSED CIRCUIT VERTICAL HEAT EXCHANGERS.
   1.   Construction will meet or exceed manufacturer recommendations and meet
all requirements and schedules set forth by the current Iowa Administrative
Code 567 Chapter 49.29.
   2.   Permit process shall be as follows:
      A.   When obtaining a permit to install a geothermal heat pump system,
the contractor or homeowner must apply for a permit within the County EH
Department office prior to construction.
      B.   The permitted party shall receive a designated marker supplied by
the County EH Department, to mark the location of the wells.
      C.   The Department shall be given no less than 24-hour notice to perform
a pre-site inspection of the flagged area prior to well construction.
   3.   The construction process shall be as follows:
      A.   The Department shall be given no less than 24-hour notice that the
drilling process has begun to perform an on-site drilling inspection.
   4.   The Department shall be notified no less than 24 hours prior to
pressurization of the system with the State approved antifreeze solution on-
site during the final hook up, to perform a final inspection.
   5.   The fee for obtaining a permit to install the system shall be set by
the Board of Health. The additional IDNR fee still applies.
   6.   These rules apply only to closed circuit vertical heat exchangers.
43.08 APPEAL.
   Any person who feels aggrieved by any notice or order made by the County EH
Department or the Board of Health shall have the right to appeal to the Board
of Supervisors at the next regular meeting.
43.09 COUNTY INFRACTIONS.
   If the violation is not corrected, the County may seek such remedies, civil
or criminal, as are authorized by the law including, but not limited to, the
provisions of Section
1.11 for County infractions.
CHAPTER 44
ON-SITE WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
 
44.01 Purpose              44.06 Variances
44.02 Definitions          44.07 Appeal
44.03 General Requirements 44.08 Registered Contractor
44.04 Permit Requirements  44.09 County Infractions
44.05 Inspection            
 
44.01 PURPOSE.
   To protect the health of residents of the County, to prevent increased
health risks due to on-site wastewater treatment systems, and to implement
State on-site treatment standards. The County has adopted Iowa Administrative
Code 567, Chapter 69, in its entirety with the modifications stated in this
chapter. The County has adopted Iowa Administrative Code 567, Chapter 68, in
its entirety.
44.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Alteration” or “construction” means all private sewage disposal
systems, constructed or altered after the effective date of these rules, shall
comply with these requirements. Alteration includes any changes that affect the
treatment or disposal of the waste. Repair of existing components that does not
change the treatment or disposal would be exempt. However, the discharge
restrictions in Section 44.03(1) would always apply.
   2.   “County EH Department” means the Marion County Environmental Health
Program Manager or Field Assistant, located in the Marion County Public Health
Department, Environmental Health Program Office.
   3.   “Department” means the Iowa Department of Natural Resources.
   4.   “Dwelling” means a place for human habitation.
   5.   “Health hazard” means any condition, structure, or object, which can or
has the potential to cause injury or sickness to human or animal life, or cause
damage to the environment.
   6.   “NPDES” means National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   7.   “Public sewer” means a wastewater treatment and disposal facility owned
and operated by a corporate public entity such as a city or sanitary sewer
district.
   8.   “Reconstruction” means the action of reconstructing, i.e., the act of
constructing again; re-establishing; reassembling.
   9.   “Repair” means the change or the reconstruction or the renewal of any
part of an existing system. Media component replacements to packaged treatment
units or treatment unit parts under maintenance contract by certified
maintenance providers are exempt.
   10.   “Soil scientist” means an individual who practices investigating and
evaluating the interactions between water, soil minerals, plants, and other
living organisms that are used to prepare soil scientists’ reports for
subsurface ground absorption systems, including infiltration galleries; land
application of residuals such as sludge, septage, and other wastes; spray
irrigation of wastewater; soil remediation at conventional rates; land
application of agricultural products; processing residues, bioremediation, and
volatilization; soil erodibility and sedimentation; and identification of
hydric soil and redoximorphic features.
   All terms used herein which are defined in Chapter 69 of the Iowa
Administrative Code 567, shall be defined the same for these regulations.
44.03 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Discharge Restrictions. It is prohibited for any household waste, from
other than an approved system designed to do so, to discharge (unless permitted
under NPDES General Permit #4) to any ditch, stream, lake, pond, natural or
artificial waterway, County drain tile, surface water drain tile, or to the
surface of the ground. Such waste material shall be disposed of in such a
sanitary manner as is prescribed by these regulations.
   2.   State Code Adopted. All on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
systems located in the County, including the corporate boundaries of
incorporated cities and towns, shall be constructed and equipped in accordance
with the specifications and requirements set forth by the Department in the
most current edition of the Iowa Administrative Code 567, Chapter 69, and to
such additional requirements as are prescribed by the regulations of the Board
of Health.
   The following is a list of emphasis of differences between Iowa
Administrative Code 567, Chapter 69, and changes and additions adopted by the
Board of Health and the Board of Supervisors.
      A.   Media Filters and Mechanical Aerobic Units.
         (1)   Sampling of all permitted media filters and mechanical aerobic
units shall follow the requirements outlined in Iowa Administration Code
Section 567, Chapter 69, and current NPDES General Permit #4 and any sample
results required by a NPDES permit shall be submitted to the County EH
Department office no later than July 1 and December 31 of each calendar year.
If no effluent is discharging from the discharge point or present within the
sample port at time of inspection, then a report will be sent to the County EH
Department office, indicating that observation.
         (2)   Prior to the issuance of an install permit, an original or copy
of any required maintenance agreements shall be presented to the department.
         (3)   All discharging systems must be tested by a qualified sampler.
         (4)   Failure to provide acceptable test results according to Iowa
Administration Code 567, Chapter 69, or according to the current NPDES General
Permit #4 may void the existing permit and repairs or replacement must be made
under a new permit.
      B.   All permitted County on-site wastewater systems that discharge and
require an annual maintenance agreement, shall participate in an annual random
compliancy program. The percentage of systems that will be checked will be
determined by the policy established by the Board of Health. Owners of those
selected systems will be notified of all procedures associated with the
compliance program annually.
      C.   If the County performs the required sampling or orders sampling by a
qualified sampler for meeting the most current NPDES requirements, then fees
set by the Board of Health shall be collected by the County EH Department
office, including all laboratory fees associated with the required test.
   3.   Permit Required. No person shall begin construction or alteration of
any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system for any purpose in the
County without first having obtained a permit as set out in this chapter. The
permit for construction or alteration of the on-site wastewater treatment and
disposal system shall be obtained prior to the construction of or addition to
any dwelling or building to be served by this system.
   4.   Update of Failed System. In the event an on-site wastewater treatment
and disposal system should fail, or otherwise be found to cause a health
hazard, and a public sanitary sewer is not available, said system shall be made
to conform to these regulations.
44.04 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Permit Application. Any person desiring a permit shall file with the
County EH Department an application stating the owner’s name, property address,
phone number, and other information as required by the Board of Health on the
most current application form available at the Environmental Health Office.
   2.   Percolation Test or Soil Analysis. The County follows Iowa
Administrative Code Section 567, Chapter 69, Appendix B “Percolation Test
Procedure.”
   3.   Sketch Required. The application shall also include a sketch of the
property with approximate dimensions showing the dwelling served, the location
of any wells on the property, the location of any wells on neighboring property
within 100 feet of the system, as well as a sketch of the proposed system to be
installed. Any deviation from the plans or specifications appearing on the
application must be approved by the County EH Department. Prior to the issuance
of an on-site wastewater permit, the site shall be assessed after completion of
the percolation test or soil analysis by the department or at the discretion of
the administrative authority.
   4.   Fee Requirement. Upon approval of the application by the County EH
Department, the signed permit shall be issued upon payment of the required
applicable fees made payable to Marion County Environmental Health Program.
   5.   Fee. Permit fees will be set by the Board of Health.
   6.   Valid Period. Permits shall have validity for a maximum of 12 months
from the time of issuance, during which time the on- site wastewater treatment
and disposal system shall be completed. Percolation tests or soil analysis
shall also be valid for one year after receipt of such test within the
Environmental Health Office at the Marion County Public Health Department. Any
extension of the valid percolation test or permit period may be approved by the
Environmental Health Program Manager and the Public Health Director. The
proposed installation site shall be subject to re-evaluation and a fee set by
the Board of Health will be collected.
44.05 INSPECTION.
   1.   Notification. The Environmental Health Office shall be notified orally
by telephone, or in person, not less than 24 hours, between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except County observed holidays,
before the work is to be inspected or tested.
   2.   Inspection. No part of any private sewage disposal system shall be
used, covered, or constructed so as to deny the mandatory inspection by the
County EH Department. An on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system is
considered ready for inspection when the house sewer, septic tank, distribution
box, and secondary treatment are in place but not covered.
   3.   Availability of Permit. The installer of any on-site wastewater system,
alteration, or repair shall have a copy of the permit available for review by
the County EH Department office of the Public Health Department, Board of
Health staff or designees.
   4.   Inspection of Repair or Alteration to Existing Systems. If an existing
on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system is being repaired, altered,
reconstructed, or a new system is being installed to replace an existing
system, the building to be served by this system shall be connected to the
building sewer before final approval is given.
   5.   Drawing Required. When the on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system has been completed, a drawing shall be completed by the County EH
Department showing the exact layout of the septic tank, all distribution boxes,
the secondary treatment system, and location of the structure to be served by
the system. This drawing shall have dimensions from two fixed corners of the
dwelling or structure or other permanent landmark to the center of the septic
tank(s) and center of the distribution boxes. Digital photos will also be taken
of pertinent features and kept in the Environmental Health Office of the Health
Department. The location of all wells within 100 feet of the system must also
be shown. A copy of such shall be provided to the owner upon request.
44.06 VARIANCES.
   Variances to these regulations may be requested of the Board of Health. The
Board of Health may or may not approve, based on evidence provided. Variances
shall be requested by the requestor in writing, addressed to the Board of
Health, submitted to the Director of Public Health at least 10 days prior to
the next regularly scheduled Board of Health meeting. The request should be
accompanied by any evidence that the requestor wishes to have the Board
consider. All decisions regarding this topic shall be issued in writing to the
requestor.
44.07 APPEAL.
   The grievance and appeal process will be made readily available to all who
request it. It can be obtained through the Environmental Health Office or
through the receptionist at the Public Health Department. Copies will be
available to pick up in each office. All persons involved shall abide with the
process and timelines outlined in the process. Failure to meet timelines will
result in loss of opportunity to appeal.
44.08 REGISTERED CONTRACTOR.
   Any individual or firm, other than the homeowner, who installs, repairs,
alters, or maintains private on-site septic systems in the County must be a
holder in good standing of certification as a Certified Installer of On-site
Wastewater Treatment System (CIOWTS) either Basic or Advanced. Septic
contractors without CIOWTS credentials shall only work in the County with
approval by the Board of Health. Those contractors that only act as maintenance
providers within the County are recommended to obtain the CIOWTS requirement
and shall be a manufacturer certified maintenance provider for those units that
they service.
44.09 COUNTY INFRACTIONS.
   If the violation is not corrected, the County may seek such remedies, civil
or criminal, as are authorized by the law including, but not limited to, the
provisions of Section
1.11 for County infractions.
CHAPTER 45
YARD WASTE DISPOSAL
 
45.01 Purpose    45.03 Separation Required
45.02 Definition
 
45.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit the land disposal of yard waste,
pursuant to Section 455D.9 of the Code of Iowa.
45.02 DEFINITION.
   “Yard waste” means debris such as grass clippings, leaves, garden waste,
brush, and trees. Yard waste does not mean tree stumps.
45.03 SEPARATION REQUIRED.
   All yard waste originating in the County and entering the South Central Iowa
Solid Waste Agency Landfill or placed at any collection point to be delivered
to the landfill, shall be separated from all other solid waste.
CHAPTER 46
SEPTIC CONTRACTOR AND SYSTEM DESIGN ENGINEER LICENSE
 
46.01 Definitions               46.04 System Design Engineer License
46.02 General Requirements      46.05 County Infractions
46.03 Septic Contractor License  
 
46.01 DEFINITIONS.  
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Administrative authority” means the Board of Health or designee(s).
   2.   “County Sanitarian” means the County EH Department Program Manager,
located in the County Public Health Department, Environmental Health Program
Office.
   3.   “Septic contractor” means any person, or business firm, installing,
repairing, or providing maintenance of private sewage disposal systems for
compensation.
   4.   “System Design Engineer” means a Licensed Professional Engineer by
education and degree obtained thereby, conducting soil profiling and designing,
percolation testing or specifying private sewage disposal systems for
installation in the County. All designs must meet Iowa Administrative Code,
Environmental Protection 567, Chapter 69, or County Code defined in Chapter 44
and Chapter 40 Health Regulations.
46.02 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.  
   Any septic contractor or system design engineer, who designs, constructs,
installs, alters, or repairs, or provides maintenance of any private sewage
disposal system in the County, must have a current license issued by the Board
of Health Department, under the provisions of Section
46.03 and Section
46.04.
46.03 SEPTIC CONTRACTOR LICENSE.  
   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to construct, alter, repair, or
provide maintenance of any private sewage disposal system in the County, shall
first file for a license and approval with the County Sanitarian, conditioned
on the faithful performance of all duties and regulations required by the Board
of Health, and all ordinances and regulations of the County and the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources governing On-site Wastewater Treatment and
Disposal Systems.
   1.   Persons desiring to obtain a County license to install, repair, alter,
or maintain private sewage disposal systems must be a holder in good standing
of certification as a Certified Installer of On-site Wastewater Treatment
System, either basic or advanced levels. Continuing education credits to be
defined by the National Environmental Health Association (NEHA). Those
contractors that only act as maintenance providers within the County are
recommended to obtain the CIOWTS requirement but shall be a manufacturer
certified maintenance provider for those units that they service. Any repair or
alteration work related to their service contracts may be performed by that
certified maintenance provider.
   2.   The administrative authority will issue a contractor’s license, valid
for a period of 12 months, provided the applicant is the holder in good
standing and has met the continuing education requirements of such
certification.
   3.   An annual license fee shall be established by the Board of Health and
shall be paid at the time of application.
   4.   License fees will be determined by the Board of Health.
   5.   Revocation and Denial of License. The septic contractor license may be
revoked by the administrative authority if the terms of this chapter or any
part of Chapter 44, Chapter 46, or the Iowa Administrative Code, Environmental
Protection 567, Chapter 69, are violated. The contractor may only be reinstated
at the discretion of the Board of Health.
   6.   Revocation Period. Application for renewal of license, when the license
has been revoked, will not be allowed for a period of one year from the date of
revocation.
   7.   Appeal Hearing. An appeal hearing on license denial or revocation may
be requested in writing to the Board of Health Chairperson.
   8.   Probation Period and Provisional License. Any certified contractor
wishing to provide services in the County may perform such work provisionally
for a period of 6 months prior to obtaining their CIOWTS credential. At that
time the contractor must obtain the credential prior to commencing any
additional services in the County. This provision does not apply to those
contractors receiving disciplinary action or revocation by the Board of Health.
   9.   Steward Program. Any contractor that provides sporadic or few services
in the County, may install private sewage disposal systems without obtaining a
CIOWTS credential only by obtaining oversight of their work by an already
credentialed (CIOWTS) contractor, and documented paperwork is received by the
County EH Department Office prior to completion of the work.
46.04 SYSTEM DESIGN ENGINEER LICENSE.  
   All System Design Engineers desiring to perform services within the County
must be a State-licensed or registered engineer. System Design Engineers must
maintain the credential requirements pertaining to their engineering
registration with the State or any other applicable requirements. System Design
Engineers are not required to obtain the CIOWTS credential, but it is highly
recommended.
46.05 COUNTY INFRACTIONS.  
   If the violation is not corrected, the County may seek such remedies, civil
or criminal, as are authorized by the law including, but not limited to, the
provisions of Section
1.11 for County infractions.
CHAPTER 47
ANIMAL CONTROL
 
47.01 Purpose                    47.08 Keeping of Vicious Dogs and Dangerous
                                 Animals Prohibited
47.02 Definitions                47.09 Vicious Dog and Dangerous Animal
                                 Exceptions
47.03 Responsibilities of Owners 47.10 Abatement Procedures Pertaining to
                                 Vicious Dogs and Dangerous Animals
47.04 Conditions for Impoundment 47.11 Animal Welfare and Care
47.05 Confinement                47.12 County Infractions
47.06 Keeping of Dangerous Dogs   
47.07 Right to Euthanize          
 
 
47.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter provides for the regulation of the keeping of any domesticated
animals, the conditions for the impoundment of such animals, and the providing
of penalties. This chapter provides not only for the regulation of household
animals but also the regulation of livestock and breeding animals, and vicious
dogs and dangerous animals kept as pets.
47.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Animal” means any nonhuman vertebrate.
   2.   “At-large” means any animal found off the premises of its owner and not
under the control of a competent person, restrained within a motor vehicle, or
fenced-in area, housed in a veterinary hospital or kennel, on a leash
(electronic or otherwise) or “at heel” beside a competent person and obedient
to that person’s command.
   3.   “Attack” means an act committed by an animal with the ability to
execute such an act that either by threat of physical contact or actual
physical contact causes fear, pain, or injury to the human being or a domestic
animal so long as the latter has not first committed such an act on the
offending animal.
   4.   “Breeding animal” means any animal kept for the purpose of breeding.
   5.   “Cats” means both male and female animals of the feline species,
whether altered or not.
   6.   “Control” is established when an animal is secured by a leash or lead,
confined in a fenced-in area or vehicle, or obedient to a competent person’s
commands.
   7.   “County Agent” means a public or private entity either employed or
under contract with the County to assist the County in regulating various
sections of this chapter.
   8.   “Dangerous animal” means:
      A.   Any animal which is not naturally tame or gentle, and which is of a
wild nature or disposition, and which is capable of killing, inflicting serious
injury upon, or causing disease among, human beings or domestic animals and
having known tendencies as a species to do so;
      B.   Any animals declared to be dangerous by the Board of Health upon
reasonable notice to the owner thereof who shall be entitled to a hearing
before the Board; and,
      C.   The following animals which shall be deemed dangerous animals per
se:
         (1)   Wolves, coyotes, and foxes;
         (2)   Badgers, wolverines, weasels, mink, and other mustelids;
         (3)   Bats;
         (4)   Bears;
         (5)   Gila monsters, and lizards that are venomous or poisonous;
         (6)   All apes (including chimpanzees), baboons, and macaques;
         (7)   Monkeys, except the squirrel monkey;
         (8)   Elephants;
         (9)   Wild boar;
         (10)   Black widow and brown recluse spiders and scorpions;
         (11)   Snakes which are naturally venomous or poisonous;
         (12)   Snakes which are constricting and exceeding six feet in length;
         (13)   All cats, except domestic cats (Carnivora of the family
Felidae, including, but not limited to, lions, cougars, tigers, jaguars,
leopards, lynx, ocelots, bobcats, etc.);
         (14)   Raccoons, opossums, and skunks;
         (15)   Any animal that while running at large has attacked or bitten
any person without provocation, or any animal that has exhibited vicious
propensities in present or past conduct by acting in the following manner:
            a.   By biting a person or persons on two separate occasions within
a 12-month period; or
            b.   Did bite a person once causing injuries above the shoulders of
the person.
   9.   “Disturbance” means the act of trespassing, chasing, maiming, or
killing domestic livestock or fowl; damaging or killing domestic livestock or
fowl; damaging or destroying personal property; biting or attempting to bite a
person.
   10.   “Dogs” means both male and female animals of the canine species,
whether altered or not.
   11.   “Domestic animal” means all livestock, household animals, breeding
animals, and kennel animals.
   12.   “Household animal” means any companion animal normally kept by an
owner anywhere on that owner’s property, whether indoors or outdoors, for the
purposes of pleasure, protection, working, or hunting.
   13.   “Kennel animal” means any animal that under normal conditions is
housed in a veterinary hospital or registered kennel.
   14.   “Livestock” means animals kept for use or pleasure, especially farm
animals kept for use and profit, including fowl.
   15.   “Neglected” or “suffering conditions” means any condition or situation
in which the animal is in imminent danger.
   16.   “Owner” includes, in addition to its ordinary meaning, any person or
persons, firm, association, or corporation owning, keeping, sheltering, or
harboring an animal.
   17.   “Potentially dangerous dog” means any of the following:
      A.   Any dog which, when unprovoked, on two separate occasions within the
prior 36-month period, engages in any behavior that requires a defensive action
by any person to prevent bodily injury when the person and the animal are off
the property of the owner or keeper of the dog.
      B.   Any dog which, when unprovoked, inflicts injury upon a person less
severe than as defined in Section
47.02(21).
      C.   Any dog which, when unprovoked, on two separate occasions, has
killed, seriously bitten, inflicted injury, or otherwise caused injury
attacking a domestic animal off the property of the owner or keeper of the dog.
   18.   “Proper enclosure” means any pen or kennel with sides attached to a
secured top and a secured bottom, floor, or foundation. In lieu of a top, a
fence may be used that is at least six feet in height or six feet taller than
any internal structure that the dog can jump from. In lieu of a bottom, a fence
may be used that is imbedded into the ground at least two feet to prevent any
digging under the fence.
   19.   “Provoked” means, but is not limited to:
      A.   Any willful trespass or other tort upon premises occupied by the
owner or keeper of the dog.
      B.   Any act of teasing, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting or threat to
act; being committed by a person or domestic animal against a dog or the owner
or keeper of the dog.
   20.   “Sanitarian” means the County Sanitarian.
   21.   “Severe injury” means any physical injury to a human being that
results in muscle or tendon tears, joint injuries, disfiguring lacerations, or
requires multiple sutures.
   22.   “Stray” means any animal unlawfully running at large, the ownership of
which cannot, with reasonable investigation, be ascertained or any animal which
has been abandoned by its owner.
   23.   “Unincorporated areas” means areas not within the confines of an
incorporated city.
   24.   “Vicious dog” means any of the following:
      A.   Any dog, which, when unprovoked and in an aggressive manner, bites a
human being above the waist (excluding the hands) or inflicts severe injury
upon or kills a human being.
      B.   Any dog previously determined to be potentially dangerous by the
Board of Health which, after its owner or keeper has been notified of the
determination, continues the behavior described in Section
47.02(17) or is maintained in violation of Section
47.06.
47.03 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS.
   It shall be the responsibility of an owner of any animal, through the use of
methods deemed reasonable and proper and in accordance with all other laws, to
comply with the following conditions:
   1.   It is unlawful for an owner of any animal to permit such animal to run
at large within the County.
   2.   It is unlawful for an owner of any animal to permit such animal to pass
upon the premises of another person, thereby causing damage to, or interference
with, the premises.
   3.   It is unlawful for an owner of any animal to permit such animal to
cause serious noise or disorder to any person or persons by frequent and
habitual howling, yelping, barking, or otherwise; or by running after or
chasing persons, bicycles, automobiles, or other vehicles; or in any way posing
a public hazard, a public nuisance, or a disturbance.
   4.   It shall be the duty of the owner of any dog, cat, or other animal
which has bitten or attacked a person, or any person having knowledge of such
bite or attack, to report this act to a local health or law enforcement
official. It shall be the duty of physicians and veterinarians to report to the
Board of Health the existence of any animal known or suspected to be suffering
from rabies.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.38)
47.04 CONDITIONS FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
   1.   All strays and any dog found at large.
   2.   Any dog, licensed or not, which is causing a disturbance is subject to
seizure and impoundment.
   3.   Citations may be issued to the owner of an animal in lieu of
impoundment. Impoundment may be required when no owner can be identified after
a reasonable amount of investigation.
   4.   Any vicious dog or dangerous animal believed to pose a risk or threat
of harm to any person or domestic animal may be seized and impounded.
   5.   Any animal against which multiple complaints for running at large and
causing a disturbance have been made is subject to restraint on the property of
the owner. This is to include all animals within the County.
47.05 CONFINEMENT.
   When the Board of Health, Public Safety Officer, or any County Agent (Humane
Society) receives information that any person has been bitten by an animal or
that a dog or animal is suspected of having rabies, the Board of Health, Public
Safety Officer, or County Agent shall order the owner to confine such animal in
the manner provided herein.
   1.   An animal must be confined by a licensed veterinarian at the owner’s
expense, if:
      A.   The animal, over six months of age, has no record of current rabies
vaccination. Unvaccinated animals cannot be vaccinated until the end of the
confinement period, at which time the animal must be vaccinated at the owner’s
expense.
      B.   The events leading to the incident are such that rabies is
suspected. There was no due cause for the incident, or the animal has
suspicious recent history. This will be utilized even if the animal has a
record of being currently vaccinated for rabies.
   2.   Home confinement may be permissible if:
      A.   Rabies vaccination is current.
      B.   Conditions listed in Section 47.05(1) are not applicable and the
owner can provide proper confinement of the animal. Confinement will be done by
the penning of the animal so that there is a metal barrier as to prevent the
intimate approach of any other animal or person.
      C.   The owner of the animal shall sign an agreement to adhere to the
rules of confinement for the designated length of time and agrees to notify the
County immediately if the animal sickens, dies, or escapes.
   3.   The quarantine period shall be 10 days for all animals.
   4.   If it is not practical to confine the animal for reasons of health and
safety, with the approval of a licensed veterinarian, said animal may be
euthanized and the brain sent for examination at the owner’s expense.
   5.   If the owner fails to confine such animal in the manner directed, the
animal shall be apprehended and impounded and, after 10 days, the animal will
be evaluated by a licensed veterinarian and then may be released to its owner
or euthanized, if deemed necessary. The owner shall pay the cost of impoundment
and veterinarian services.
47.06 KEEPING OF DANGEROUS DOGS.
   A potentially dangerous dog shall, at all times, be kept confined within a
residence or in a secured proper enclosure. The enclosure shall be locked with
a key or combination lock to prevent the entry of children. When off the
premises, the dog must be kept on a substantial leash of no more than six feet
in length and under the control of a responsible adult. If there are no
additional instances of the behavior described in Section
47.02(17) within a 36-month period from the date of designation as a
potentially dangerous dog, the dog may be removed from the list of potentially
dangerous dogs.
47.07 RIGHT TO EUTHANIZE.
   The County reserves the right to euthanize any animal not under observation
for rabies or under rabies quarantine for which no reasonable veterinary care
would prove to be practical to sustain said animal, when said animal is
afflicted with a contagious disease which would endanger the welfare of the
other animals in the shelter, or any dog declared as vicious by the Board of
Health.
47.08 KEEPING OF VICIOUS DOGS AND DANGEROUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall keep, shelter, or harbor any animal as a pet, or act as a
temporary custodian for such animal, or keep, shelter, or harbor such animal
for any other purpose or in any other capacity within the County except as
provided in Section
47.09. No dog declared as vicious shall be allowed to be taken out of or
brought into the County.
47.09 VICIOUS DOG AND DANGEROUS ANIMAL EXCEPTIONS.
   The prohibition contained in Section
47.08 shall not apply to the keeping of illegal animals in the following
circumstances:
   1.   The keeping of illegal animals in a public zoo, bona fide educational
or medical institution, humane society, or museum where they are kept as live
specimens for the public to view, or for the purpose of instruction, research,
or study.
   2.   The keeping of illegal animals for exhibition to the public by a bona
fide traveling circus, carnival, exhibit, or show.
   3.   The keeping of illegal animals in a bona fide, licensed veterinary
hospital for treatment.
   4.   The keeping of illegal animals by a wildlife rescue organization with
the appropriate permit from the Iowa Department of Natural Resources.
   5.   Dogs while utilized by any law enforcement officer in the performance
of enforcement work.
47.10 ABATEMENT PROCEDURES PERTAINING TO VICIOUS DOGS AND DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   1.   In the event that the County Agent has probable cause to believe that a
dog is vicious, or a dangerous animal is in violation of this chapter, the
County Agent shall be empowered to convene a hearing for the purpose of
determining whether or not the dog in question should be declared vicious or
the dangerous animal is in violation and constitutes a hazard.
   2.   The County Agent shall conduct, or cause to be conducted, an
investigation and shall notify the owner or keeper of the vicious dog or
dangerous animal that a hearing will be held at which said owner or keeper may
have the opportunity to present evidence of why the dog or dangerous animal
shall not be declared a hazard.
   3.   The hearing shall be held promptly within no less than five days or
more than 10 days after the service of notice upon the owner or keeper of the
dog or dangerous animal. The hearing shall be informal and shall be open to the
public. After the hearing, the owner or keeper of the dog or dangerous animal
shall be notified in writing of the determination. If a determination is made
that the dog is vicious or the dangerous animal is a hazard, the owner or
keeper shall comply with the provisions of this chapter in accordance with a
time schedule established by the County Agent, but in no case more than 30 days
subsequent to the date of determination.
   4.   If the owner or keeper of the dog or dangerous animal contests the
determination, they may bring a petition in the district court within the
judicial district wherein the dog or dangerous animal is kept, that court may
conduct its own hearing on whether or not the dog be declared vicious or the
dangerous animal be found to be in violation and a threat to the public safety.
   5.   After service of notice upon the County Agent, the court shall conduct
a hearing anew and make its determination as to alleged viciousness or
endangerment. The issue shall be decided upon the preponderance of the
evidence.
   6.   If the court rules the dog to be vicious, or the dangerous animal to be
a threat to public safety, the court may establish a time schedule to ensure
compliance with this chapter. The court may decide all issues for or against
the owner or keeper of the dog or dangerous animal, regardless if said owner or
keeper fails to appear at said hearing.
   7.   The determination of the district court shall be final and conclusive
upon all parties thereto. However, the County Agent shall have the right to
declare a dog vicious or an animal dangerous for any subsequent actions of the
dog or animal.
   8.   In the event that the County Agent has probable cause to believe that
the dog in question is vicious or the animal is dangerous and poses a threat of
serious harm to human beings or domestic animals, the County Agent may seize
and impound the dog or dangerous animal pending the aforesaid hearings.
   9.   The owner or keeper of the dog or dangerous animal shall be liable to
the County when the dog or dangerous animal is impounded, for costs and
expenses of keeping such dog or dangerous animal.
47.11 ANIMAL WELFARE AND CARE.
   All animals shall be maintained with a “minimum level of care.” This shall
mean the care sufficient to reasonably preserve the physical health and
condition of the animal(s), and except for emergencies or circumstances beyond
the reasonable control of the owner includes, but is not limited to, the
following requirements:
   1.   A quantity of wholesome feed suitable for the animal’s species and age,
sufficient to maintain reasonable levels of nutrition, at intervals of not more
than 24 hours or longer if the dietary requirements of the animal require.
   2.   Reasonable access to a supply of clean, fresh water provided for
drinking in amounts and at intervals suitable for the species, not to exceed 24
hours at any interval.
   3.   If the animal is a pet, adequate access to a shelter sufficient to
ensure that the pet does not suffer unreasonable distress due to natural
elements, including, but not limited to, wind, rain, snow, sun, cold, or
dampness.
   4.   If the animal is livestock, adequate access to a natural or constructed
barrier sufficient to offer reasonable protection against temperature extremes,
wind, rain, or snow.
   5.   If the animal is restricted in a confinement area for an extended
period, the area shall be kept reasonably clean and free from contaminates,
including animal waste, which may threaten the health of the animal.
   6.   Veterinary or farrier care, if a reasonably prudent person would advise
such care to relieve distress from injury, disease, or neglect.
   7.   If the animal is a pet, a confinement area with adequate space for the
exercise necessary to preserve the health of the animal and which provides a
dry area for the animal to rest. The air temperature or ventilation in the
confinement area shall be suitable to preserve the health of a normal animal of
the same species.
   8.   If an animal is fastened by a leash, including a rope or chain, which
restricts the movement of the animal, a leash shall be attached to the animal
by a well-fitting collar or harness that is fastened to the animal in a manner
designed to prevent injury or entanglement. A leash shall not restrict an
animal from access to adequate shelter or sufficient food or water.
   In the event that the County Agent finds animals in neglected or suffering
conditions, the County Agent shall have the right forthwith to remove, or cause
to have removed, any such animals to a safe place for care at the owner’s
expense, providing that the owner is notified by certified mail or by personal
service by the County Agent before removal. If it is determined by the County
Agent that the animal is of critical nature, the County Agent may take
immediate steps to protect the animal, to include having the animal checked by
a veterinarian. Return of the animal to the owner shall not be permitted until
the owner shall have made full payment for all expenses so incurred by the
County Agent. Said payment shall not be considered in lieu of any charges which
may be filed.
47.12 COUNTY INFRACTIONS.
   The provisions of Section
1.11 shall be applicable for the enforcement of any or all violations to this
chapter.
CHAPTER 48
ISOLATION AND QUARANTINE OF DISEASES
 
48.01 Definitions                      48.08 Individual Rights
48.02 General Provisions               48.09 Consolidation of Claims
48.03 Conditions and Principles        48.10 Enforcement
48.04 Isolation or Quarantine Premises 48.11 Penalties
48.05 Powers and Authority             48.12 Refusal of Admittance
48.06 Implementation                   48.13 Emergency Rules
48.07 Appeal Proceedings               48.14 Amendments
 
48.01 DEFINITIONS.
   1.   “Authorized Representative” means the County Public Health Department
Director, or their designee.
   2.   “Communicable disease” means any disease spread from person to person
or animal to person.
   3.   “Department” means the County Public Health Department.
   4.   “IDPH” means the Iowa Department of Public Health.
   5.   “Isolation” means the separation of persons or animals presumably or
actually infected with a communicable disease, or that are disease carriers,
for the usual period of communicability of that disease. Isolation shall be in
such places, marked by placards, if necessary, and under such conditions to
prevent the direct or indirect conveyance of the infectious agent or contagion
to susceptible individuals.
   6.   “Order” means a lawful formal oral or written directive issued by the
Department or Board of Health to individual or group of individuals.
   7.   “Placard” means a sign or notice for display in a public place.
   8.   “Quarantinable disease” means any communicable disease which presents a
risk of serious harm to public health and which may require isolation or
quarantine to prevent its spread. “Quarantinable disease” includes, but is not
limited to, cholera; diphtheria; infectious tuberculosis; plague; smallpox;
yellow fever; viral hemorrhagic fevers, including Lassa, Marburg, Ebola,
Crimean-Congo, South American, and others not yet isolated or named; and Severe
Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS).
   9.   “Quarantine” means the limitation of freedom of movement of persons or
animals that have been exposed to a communicable disease or chemical,
biological, or radiological agent, within specified limits marked by placards,
for a period of time equal to the longest usual incubation period of the
disease or until there is no risk of spreading the chemical, biological, or
radiological agent. The limitation of movement shall be in such manner as to
prevent the spread of a communicable disease or chemical, biological, or
radiological agent.
48.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   1.   Prior to instituting mandatory isolation or quarantine order pursuant
to this chapter, the Department may request that an individual or group of
individuals voluntarily confine themselves to a private home or other facility.
   2.   The Department is authorized to impose and enforce quarantine and
isolation restrictions. Quarantine and isolation shall rarely be imposed by the
Department. Quarantine or isolation may be imposed on individuals that are, or
are suspected to be, infected with, exposed to, or contaminated with a
quarantinable disease or chemical, biological, or radiological agent that could
spread to or contaminate others if remedial action is not taken. Any quarantine
or isolation imposed by the Department shall be established and enforced in
accordance with this chapter.
   3.   The Department shall notify, consult, and work cooperatively with the
Iowa Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship and the State Veterinarian
Office on issues relating to isolation and quarantine of animals.
48.03 CONDITIONS AND PRINCIPLES.
   1.   The isolation or quarantine shall be by the least restrictive means
necessary to prevent the spread of a communicable disease or a chemical,
biological, or radiological agent to others and may include, but is not limited
to, confinement to private homes, other private premises, or public premises.
   2.   Isolated individuals shall be confined separately from quarantined
individuals.
   3.   The health status of isolated or quarantined individuals shall be
monitored regularly to determine if the individuals require further or
continued isolation or quarantine.
   4.   If a quarantined individual subsequently becomes infected or is
reasonably believed to have become infected with a communicable or possibly
communicable disease, the individual shall be promptly removed to isolation.
   5.   Isolated or quarantined individuals shall be immediately released when
the Department determines that the individuals pose no substantial risk of
transmitting a communicable disease or spreading a chemical, biological, or
radiological agent.
   6.   The needs of isolated or quarantined individuals shall be addressed in
a systematic and competent fashion including, but not limited to, providing
adequate food; clothing; shelter; means of communicating with those in and
outside of isolation or quarantine; medication; and competent medical care.
   7.   The premises used for isolation or quarantine shall be maintained in a
safe and hygienic manner and shall be designed to minimize the likelihood of
further transmission of infection or other harm to isolated or quarantined
individuals.
   8.   To the extent possible, cultural and religious beliefs shall be
considered in addressing the needs of individuals in isolation and quarantine
premises and in establishing and maintaining the premises.
48.04 ISOLATION OR QUARANTINE PREMISES.
   1.   Sites of isolation or quarantine shall be prominently placarded with
isolation or quarantine signs prescribed and furnished by the Department and
posted on all sides of the building wherever access is possible.
   2.   An individual subject to isolation or quarantine shall obey the
ordinance and orders of the Department and shall not go beyond the isolation or
quarantine premises.
   3.   The Department may authorize physicians, health care workers, or others
access to individuals in isolation or quarantine as necessary to meet the needs
of isolated or quarantined individuals.
   4.   No individual, other than an individual authorized by the Department,
shall enter isolation or quarantine premises. If the Department has requested
the assistance of law enforcement in enforcing the isolation or quarantine, the
Department shall provide law enforcement personnel with a list of individuals
authorized to enter the isolation or quarantine premises.
   5.   Any individual entering an isolation or quarantine premises, with or
without authorization of the Department, may be isolated or quarantined
pursuant to this chapter.
48.05 POWERS AND AUTHORITY.
   1.   Code of Iowa, Chapter 137 – Local Board of Health, 137.104(1)(b)
states, “Make and enforce such reasonable rules and regulations not
inconsistent with law and the rules of the State Board as may be necessary for
the protection and improvement of the public health.”
   2.   Code of Iowa, Section 331.301 – General Powers and Limitations,
Subsection 1 states, “A county may, except as expressly limited by the
Constitution, and if not inconsistent with the laws of the general assembly,
exercise any power and perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and
preserve the rights, privileges, and property of the county or of its
residents, and to preserve and improve peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort,
and convenience of its residents. This grant of home rule powers does not
include the power to enact private or civil law governing civil relationships,
except as incident to an exercise of an independent county power.”
   3.   The Department has primary jurisdiction to isolate or quarantine
individuals or groups of individuals within the County. IDPH has primary
jurisdiction to isolate or quarantine individuals or groups of individuals if
there are multicounty, Statewide, or interstate public health implications. If
isolation or quarantine is imposed by IDPH, the Board or authorized
representative may not alter, amend, modify, or rescind the isolation or
quarantine order.
48.06 IMPLEMENTATION.
   1.   Isolation and quarantine undertaken by the Department shall be
accomplished in accordance with this chapter.
   2.   The Department may:
      A.   Isolate individuals who are presumably or actually infected with a
quarantinable disease;
      B.   Quarantine individuals who have been exposed to a quarantinable
disease or a chemical, biological, or radiological agent;
      C.   Establish and maintain places of isolation and quarantine; and
      D.   Enforce orders as necessary to establish and maintain isolation or
quarantine.
   3.   The Department may temporarily isolate or quarantine an individual or
groups of individuals through an oral order issued by the Board of Health, or
authorized representative, without notice, only if delay in imposing the
isolation or quarantine would significantly jeopardize the Department’s ability
to prevent or limit the spread of a communicable disease or a chemical,
biological, or radiological agent to others.
   4.   If the Department imposes temporary isolation or quarantine of an
individual or groups of individuals through an oral order, the Board of Health,
or authorized representative shall issue a written order as soon as is
reasonably possible and in all cases within 24 hours of issuance of the oral
order if continued isolation or quarantine is necessary to prevent or limit the
spread of a communicable disease or a chemical, biological, or radiological
agent.
   5.   The Department may isolate or quarantine an individual or groups of
individuals through a written order issued pursuant to this chapter.
      A.   The written order shall include all of the following:
         (1)   The identity of the individual, individuals, or groups of
individuals subject to isolation or quarantine.
         (2)   The premises subject to isolation or quarantine.
         (3)   The date and time at which isolation or quarantine commences.
         (4)   The suspected communicable disease or chemical, biological, or
radiological agent.
         (5)   A description of the less restrictive alternatives that were
attempted and were unsuccessful, or the less restrictive alternatives that were
considered and rejected, and the reasons such alternatives were rejected.
         (6)   A statement of compliance with the conditions and principles for
isolation and quarantine specified in Section 48.03.
         (7)   The legal authority under which the order is requested.
         (8)   The medical basis upon which isolation or quarantine is
justified.
         (9)   A statement advising the individual, individuals, or groups of
individuals of the right to appeal the written order pursuant to Section 48.07
and the rights of individuals and groups of individuals subject to quarantine
and isolation as listed in Section 48.08.
         (10)   A copy of this chapter and the relevant definitions.
      B.   A copy of the written order shall be provided to the individual to
be isolated or quarantined within 24 hours of issuance of the order in
accordance with any applicable process authorized by the Iowa Rules of Civil
Procedure. If the order applies to a group or groups of individuals and it is
impractical to provide individual copies, the order may be posted in a
conspicuous place in the isolation or quarantine premises.
48.07 APPEAL PROCEEDINGS.
   1.   The subject of an order imposing isolation or quarantine may appeal a
written order by submitting a written appeal within 10 days of receipt of the
written order. The appeal shall be addressed to County Board of Health, Box
152, 104 South 6th Street, Knoxville, IA 50138. Unless stayed by order of the
Board or a District Court, the written order for quarantine or isolation shall
remain in force and effect until the appeal is finally determined and disposed
of upon its merits.
   2.   The appeal proceeding shall be conducted in accordance with this
chapter. The proceeding shall be held as soon as is practicable, and in no case
later than 10 days from the date of receipt of the appeal. The hearing may be
held by telephonic or other electronic means, if necessary, to prevent
additional exposure to the communicable or possibly communicable disease. In
extraordinary circumstances and for good cause shown, the Board may continue
the proceeding date for up to 10 days, giving due regard to the rights of the
affected individuals, the protection of the public’s health, and the
availability of necessary witnesses and evidence. At the appeal proceeding, the
subject of the appeal shall have the right to introduce evidence on all issues
relevant to the order. The Board, by majority vote, may modify, withdraw, or
order compliance with the order under appeal.
   3.   The aggrieved party to the final decision of the Board may petition for
judicial review of that action by filing an action in the appropriate District
Court. Petitions for judicial review shall be filed within 30 days after the
decision becomes final.
   4.   The Board acknowledges that, in certain circumstances, the subject or
subjects of an order may desire immediate judicial review of an order in lieu
of proceeding with the Board’s appeal process. The Board may consent to
immediate jurisdiction of the District Court when requested by the subject or
subjects of an order and justice so requires. Unless stayed by order of the
Board or a District Court, the written order for quarantine or isolation shall
remain in force and effect until the judicial review is finally determined and
disposed of upon its merits.
48.08 INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS.
   Any individual or group of individuals subject to isolation or quarantine
shall have the following rights:
   1.   The right to be represented by legal counsel.
   2.   The right to be provided with prior notice of the date, time, and
location of any hearing.
   3.   The right to participate in any hearing. The hearing may be held by
telephonic or other electronic means, if necessary, to prevent additional
exposure to the communicable disease or chemical, biological, or radiological
agent.
   4.   The right to respond and present evidence and argument on the
individual’s own behalf in any hearing.
   5.   The right to cross-examine witnesses who testify against the
individual.
   6.   The right to view and copy all records in the possession of the
Department which relate to the subject of the written order.
48.09 CONSOLIDATION OF CLAIMS.
   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this chapter, to promote the fair and
efficient operation of justice and having given due regard to the rights of the
affected individuals, the protection of the public’s health, and the
availability of necessary witnesses and evidence, the Board or a court may
order the consolidation of individual claims into group claims, if all of the
following conditions exist:
   1.   The number of individuals involved or to be affected is large enough
that consolidation would be the best use of resources.
   2.   There are questions of law or fact common to the individual claims or
rights to be determined.
   3.   The group claims or rights to be determined are typical of the affected
individuals’ claims or rights.
   4.   The entire group will be adequately represented in the consolidation.
48.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   1.   If isolation or quarantine is imposed by IDPH in the County, the
Department shall assist in the implementation of the isolation or quarantine
order.
   2.   Pursuant to Section 135.35 of the Code of Iowa, all peace officers of
the State shall enforce and execute a lawful order for isolation or quarantine
within their respective jurisdictions. The Department shall take all reasonable
measures to minimize the risk of exposure to peace officers and others
assisting with enforcement of an isolation or quarantine order.
   3.   The Board, or authorized representative, through the office of the
County Attorney, may file a civil action in the appropriate District Court to
enforce an order for isolation or quarantine. Such action shall be filed in
accordance with the Iowa Rules of Civil Procedure.
48.11 PENALTIES.
   Any individual that violates any regulation in any provision of this chapter
or of any amendment or supplement thereto, shall be guilty of a simple
misdemeanor which is punishable in accordance with Section
1.09 or shall be guilty of a County infraction punishable by a civil penalty in
accordance with Section
1.11. Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted by the defendant to
exist constitutes a separate offense.
48.12 REFUSAL OF ADMITTANCE.
   In the event that the Department, in proceeding to enter any premises for
the purpose of making an inspection to carry out the provisions of this
regulation, shall be refused entry, a complaint may be made under oath at the
District Court to the County and said Court thereupon may issue a warrant
directed to some peace officer of the County, commanding them between the hours
of sunrise and sunset, accompanied by the Department, to enter upon the
premises and make such inspection, and to obtain such samples as may be
required to carry out the provision of this chapter.
48.13 EMERGENCY RULES.
   1.   An emergency rule for the enforcement of this chapter may be adopted by
the Department upon notifying the Board of Health, or by the Board of Health,
if the Department or Board of Health finds that there exists a potential or
immediate danger to the public health, safety, or welfare. The scope of such
rule shall be limited to the circumstances creating an emergency and, at the
time of adoption, the Department or Board of Health shall file the rule with
the Board of Supervisors.
   2.   An emergency rule shall state the period during which it is in effect.
An emergency rule is not renewable, although the Department or Board of Health
may at any time adopt an identical rule under the normal emergency rules
procedures.
   3.   The emergency rule shall take effect immediately upon filing with the
Board of Supervisors and shall be posted on the Department’s official posting
site.
48.14 AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments and additions to the chapter shall be made as required by Chapter
137.6 of the Code of Iowa. The Board of Health shall propose amendments and
additions to this regulation to the Board of Supervisors whenever the Board of
Health determines such changes are necessary to fulfill the purpose of this
regulation.
CHAPTER 49
LEAD HAZARD REGULATIONS
 
49.01 Definitions                     49.08 Retaliatory Actions
49.02 Scope and Applicability         49.09 Appeals
49.03 Use or Sale of Lead-Based Paint 49.10 Jurisdiction
49.04 Disposal of Lead-Based Paint    49.11 Enforcement
49.05 Inspections                     49.12 Injunction
49.06 Refusal of Admittance           49.13 Penalty
49.07 Hazard Reduction                49.14 Variances
 
49.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words shall have the following meaning for the purpose of this
regulation.
   1.   “Accessible, impact, or friction surfaces” shall include, but not be
limited to, such surfaces as windowsills, window troughs, window tracks, doors
and door frames, protruding corners, stair treads and lips, floors.
      A.   “Accessible” means any surface at a level or height (= four feet)
which is easily accessible for children to bite, chew, or mouth, (e.g.,
windowsills, stair spindles).
      B.   “Impact” means any surface where hard objects often hit or run into
the surface and cause the paint to be knocked off, (e.g., protruding corners,
door or door jams, window troughs, window sashes).
      C.   “Friction” means any surface where there is any rubbing movement
that creates dust, (e.g., stairs, floors, window tracks).
   2.   “Child-occupied facility” means a building, or portion of a building,
constructed prior to 1978, that is described by all of the following:
      A.   The building is visited on a regular basis by the same child, who is
less than six years of age, on at least two different days withing any week.
For purposes of this Paragraph A, a week is a Sunday through Saturday period.
      B.   Each day’s visit by the child lasts at least three hours, and the
combined annual visits total at least 60 hours.
      C.   A child-occupied facility may include, but is not limited to, a
childcare center, preschool, or kindergarten classroom. A child-occupied
facility also includes common areas that are routinely used by children who are
less than six years of age, such as restrooms and cafeterias, and the exterior
walls and adjoining space of the building that are immediately adjacent to the
child-occupied facility or the common areas routinely used by children under
the age of six years.
   3.   “Deteriorated lead-based paint” means any lead-based paint that is
loose, chipping, peeling, cracking, flaking, chalking, or otherwise coming off
a surface.
   4.   “Dwelling” means a building or structure occupied or designed or
intended to be occupied as a place for human habitation and use, including any
accessory building, structure, or yard area belonging thereto.
   5.   “Dwelling unit” means any room, or group of rooms, located within a
dwelling and forming a single habitable unit, with facilities which are used,
or intended to be used, for any of the following: living, sleeping, cooking, or
eating.
   6.   “EBL (Elevated Blood Lead) child” means any child who has had one
venous blood lead level of = 20 micrograms per deciliter or at least two venous
blood lead levels of 15 to 19 micrograms per deciliter.
   7.   “Environmental Health Inspector” means a representative of the Board of
Health who has obtained proper licensure from the State as a Certified Lead
Inspector and Risk Assessor.
   8.   “Health Department” means the County Department of Public Health.
   9.   “Lead-based paint” means any paint or other surface coating already
applied which contains a quantity of lead equal to or in excess of 1.0
milligrams of lead per square centimeter (1.0 mg/cm²) when tested by a
radioisotope x-ray fluorescence analyzer (XRF) or more than five-tenths of one
percent lead by weight.
   10.   “Lead hazard” means any lead-based paint shall be considered a lead
hazard if the paint already exists in or about a dwelling or other child-
occupied facility in which children under age six commonly reside or visit and
if:
      A.   The paint is determined to be on any accessible, impact, or friction
surface or on any other surface where the paint is determined to be
deteriorating in any manner. This shall also include areas of bare soil that
contain lead-based paint chips. In addition, this shall also include surfaces
that contain lead dust that exceeds the EPA/HUD guidelines (bare floors – 40
milligrams per square foot, interior windowsills – 250 milligrams per square
foot, window wells – 400 milligrams per square foot).
      B.   The paint is likely to be lead-based paint, based on a visual
assessment and age of the dwelling, and is deteriorating, or on accessible,
impact, or friction surface.
   11.   “Occupant” means any person or entity living, sleeping, cooking,
eating in, or having any actual possession of a dwelling or dwelling unit.
   12.   “Owner” means any person or entity who, alone or jointly with others:
      A.   Shall have legal title to any dwelling, with or without accompanying
actual possession thereof, or
      B.   Shall have charge, care, or control of any dwelling by acting as the
agent of the owner or as the executor, administrator, trustee, or guardian and
the estate of the owner, as tenant or lessor, or as contract buyer.
   13.   “Premises” means a lot, plot, or parcel of land including all
facilities and improvements thereon.
   14.   “XRF instrument” means any of the devices which use x-ray fluorescence
in measuring concentrations of lead on-site in applied paints in milligrams per
square centimeter.
49.02 SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall affect only those dwellings, dwelling units, or child-
occupied facilities in which an EBL child resides for a period of 10 hours
within any week (Sunday through Saturday period). All owners shall comply with
the provisions of this chapter and of the rules, resolutions, and order adopted
pursuant to this chapter.
49.03 USE OR SALE OF LEAD-BASED PAINT.
   No person shall possess, sell, expose for sale, deliver, or give away any
lead-based paint intended for painting or covering any surface on the interior
or exterior of a dwelling, dwelling unit, or child-occupied facility.
49.04 DISPOSAL OF LEAD-BASED PAINT.
   1.   Lead-based paint shall be disposed of in accordance with local, State,
and federal regulations for disposing of hazardous waste.
   2.   All repair, renovation, or remodeling waste which contains lead-based
paint, shall be disposed of according to local waste disposal regulations. No
person shall re-use, recycle, or give away such waste for residential purposes.
49.05 INSPECTIONS.
   1.   The Environmental Health Inspector may require the inspection of the
dwelling, dwelling unit, or child-occupied facility of an EBL child for lead
hazards. The inspection shall consist of a visual assessment of the condition
of all interior and exterior surfaces and a determination of the lead content
of the paint on these surfaces. The lead content of the paint shall be
determined only through the use of an x-ray fluorescence (XRF) analyzer or
laboratory chemical analysis. Methods such as swabs shall not be considered an
acceptable means of testing for lead-based paint. Tests that show the presence
of lead-based paint on a surface may be extrapolated to similar surfaces in the
same room that would be expected to be finished with the same type of paint. A
determination of the lead hazards will be made from lead content of the paint
and the conditions observed. The findings of such inspection will be recorded
and documented by the Environmental Health Inspector.
   2.   The Environmental Health Inspector will be granted access to inspect
any dwelling(s), dwelling unit(s), or child-occupied facilities of an EBL child
within 14 days of notification of family of said elevated blood level. However,
at the discretion of the Environmental Health Inspector, additional time may be
granted to schedule the inspection.
   3.   When a lead hazard is found in a dwelling, dwelling unit, or child-
occupied facility inspected pursuant to this section or otherwise, the
Environmental Health Inspector shall recommend to have examined all children
under six years of age, such other children they may find advisable to examine,
or other persons, residing or who have recently resided, or frequently visit (a
period that exceeds 10 hours within any week (Sunday through Saturday period)
in said dwelling, dwelling unit, or child-occupied facility for undue lead
exposure. The results of such examination shall be reported to the
Environmental Health Inspector, the affected individual, and when applicable,
their parent or legal guardian.
   4.   The results of an investigation for lead hazards, including the
presence or absence of lead-based paint which is and is not considered to be
lead hazards, shall be reported in a written notice, with suggested remediation
and maintenance actions for the listed lead hazards, within one week to the
owner. The Environmental Health Inspector shall inform other persons or
agencies, as they deem advisable.
   5.   A dwelling, dwelling unit, or child-occupied facility does not require
inspection if it was built after 1978. However, in certain instances, at the
discretion of the Environmental Health Inspector, an inspection may be deemed
necessary.
   6.   The Environmental Health Inspector must have access to the entire
dwelling, dwelling unit, or child-occupied facility.
49.06 REFUSAL OF ADMITTANCE.
   In the event the Environmental Health Inspector, in proceeding to enter any
premises for the purpose of making an inspection to carry out the provisions of
this chapter, shall be refused entry, a complaint may be made under oath to any
magistrate of the County who shall issue a warrant to a peace officer of the
County directing them between the hours of sunrise and sunset, to accompany the
Environmental Health Inspector when entering said premises to make such an
inspection and to obtain such samples as may be required to carry out the
provisions of this chapter. The Environmental Health Inspector and peace
officer, at the time of this inspection, must have access to the entire
dwelling.
49.07 HAZARD REDUCTION.
   1.   When the Environmental Health Inspector determines that a lead hazard
is present in a dwelling, dwelling unit, or child-occupied facility where an
EBL child lives, frequently visits (a period that exceeds 10 hours within any
week [Sunday through Saturday period]), or has recently resided, they shall, in
accordance with Section 49.05(3), issue a written notice within one week to the
owner to eliminate the hazard with suggested remediation and maintenance
actions to be completed in a time period not to exceed 30 days. However, at the
discretion of the Environmental Health Inspector, additional time may be
granted to eliminate said hazard.
      A.   In the event the dwelling is vacated by the occupant who occupied,
at the time of the issuance of corrective notice referred to in this section,
such dwelling shall not be let or occupied by any other person until such
corrective notice is obeyed.
      B.   If, before the end of the 30-day remediation and maintenance period
or its extension, the owner sells the dwelling, dwelling unit, or child-
occupied facility, they shall notify the prospective buyer of the lead problem
and the new owner shall assume the responsibility of carrying out the
requirements of this chapter within the specified time period and shall not
occupy the dwelling, dwelling unit, or child-occupied facility until the
remediation is complete.
   2.   The owner(s) of any dwelling, dwelling unit, or child-occupied facility
which has been determined to contain lead hazards shall correct these lead
hazards by methods approved by the Environmental Health Inspector within the
time period allowed by the Environmental Health Inspector in a written notice.
Failure to correct the lead hazard(s) within the allotted time period shall
result in the appropriate legal action against the owner(s) for noncompliance,
pursuant to Section
49.13.
   3.   Lead hazards on surfaces which are accessible, impact, or friction
surfaces shall be corrected through one of the three following methods:
      A.   All lead-based paint on both interior and exterior surfaces and
appurtenances, which are on accessible, impact, or friction surfaces, shall be
entirely removed to the substrate. The surface(s) must be properly prepared and
repainted with lead-free paint or refinished. Repainting with lead-free paint
without prior removal of all lead-based paint down to the substrate shall not
be considered an approved method of correcting lead hazards on accessible,
impact, or friction surfaces.
      B.   The interior or exterior surface or appurtenance, which is or
contains an accessible, impact, or friction surface shall be removed from the
dwelling and replaced with a surface or appurtenance that is finished with a
lead-free coating.
      C.   The interior or exterior surface or appurtenance, which is an
accessible, impact, or friction surface, shall be covered with a permanently
affixed lead-free covering. The permanently affixed covering shall be incapable
of being readily chewed through, torn from the surface, pierced, or otherwise
removed so as to expose the hazardous surface.
   4.   Lead hazards on surfaces other than accessible, impact, or friction
surfaces shall be corrected through one of the three following methods:
      A.   All areas of deteriorating lead-based paint on both interior and
exterior surfaces and any other appurtenances shall be entirely removed and the
surface(s) shall be properly prepared before repainting with lead-free paint or
refinishing so that the surface does not begin to deteriorate again. Repainting
with lead-free paint without prior removal of all deteriorating lead-based
paint shall not be considered an approved method of correcting lead hazards.
      B.   The interior or exterior surface or appurtenance, which has areas of
deteriorating lead-based paint, shall be removed from the dwelling and replaced
with a surface free of lead-based paint.
      C.   The interior or exterior surface or appurtenance, which has areas of
deteriorating lead-based paint, shall be covered with a permanently affixed
lead-free covering. The permanently affixed covering shall be incapable of
being readily chewed through, torn from the surface, pierced, or otherwise
removed so as to expose the hazardous surface.
   5.   The Environmental Health Inspector shall inspect all areas cited as
lead hazards after remediation is complete and approve them as “lead-safe.” A
written notice shall be issued to all affected parties and retained by the
Environmental Health Inspector, stating that the property is “lead-safe” and
that proper maintenance must occur to ensure the property remains “lead-safe.”
49.08 RETALIATORY ACTIONS.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for the lessor of a dwelling, or their employees,
agents, or persons acting on their behalf to retaliate against lessees of a
dwelling whose occupants have been tested for lead poisoning.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for the lessor of a dwelling, or their employees,
agents, or persons acting on their behalf to prohibit or discourage the
occupants of the dwelling from participating in the lead poisoning screening
program.
   3.   “Retaliation” shall include harassment, termination of the tenancy,
discontinuation of utilities or other services, and any other adverse action
taken against the lessee.
   4.   “Occupants” shall include visitors in the dwelling.
   5.   An action taken against the tenant shall not be considered retaliation
if:
      A.   It is supported by reasonable cause unrelated to the occupants’
participation in the lead poisoning screening program and would have occurred
even in the absence of participation by the lessee in the screening or testing;
or
      B.   It is shown to have occurred as a result of accident or mistake, and
that it was not the intentional act of the lessor or their employees, agents,
or persons action on their behalf to retaliate.
49.09 APPEALS.
   In the event any person is aggrieved by any order of the Environmental
Health Inspector, they may within 10 days of the date of such order appeal to
the Board of Health and in writing, state their reasons for requesting such
order to be rescinded or modified. The Board of Health shall review the action
of the Environmental Health Inspector, and shall modify, withdraw, or order
compliance with said order. Appeal from any order of the Board of Health may be
taken to the District Court by writ of certiorari commenced pursuant to the
Iowa Rules of Civil Procedure.
49.10 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply throughout the County, including
cities and towns therein, unless the cities and towns have adopted a lead
ordinance.
49.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Public Health Director shall have the duty and responsibility of
enforcing this chapter.
49.12 INJUNCTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the County Board of
Health from injunctive relief or other relief as allowed by law.
49.13 PENALTY.
   1.   Any person violating this chapter or any provision thereof, shall be
guilty of a simple misdemeanor which is punishable in accordance with Section
1.09. Each day that a violation occurs constitutes a separate offense.
   2.   Upon failure of any person to correct a lead hazard found on their
property after a period of six months from initial written notification of said
hazards, the Board of Health may direct or cause the correction of said lead
hazards. All expenses incurred thereby may be recovered by suit in the name of
the Board of Supervisors, or the Board of Supervisors, by resolution, may
certify the amount of said expenses, together with a description of the
property to the County Treasurer who shall assess all expenses on the said
property. Assessed expenses shall also be recorded in the Recorder’s office.
49.14 VARIANCES.
   1.   The Environmental Health Inspector shall have the authority to
determine a surface, which may otherwise be identified as a lead hazard, “lead-
safe.” If the Environmental Health Inspector is able to determine a surface
(that fits the description of that lead hazard) is not causing or does not have
reasonable potential to cause lead exposure, the Environmental Health Inspector
may, with written notice, deem that surface as “lead-safe.” This may be done
only after a thorough investigation of the entire premises is complete and
careful evaluation of the source(s) identified as the cause or potential cause
of lead poisoning are identified. Detailed communication of such surfaces shall
be included in the final report of the premises and be provided to the owner,
tenant, and Environmental Health Inspector.
   2.   Any surface with deteriorating lead-based paint will not, under any
circumstances, be allowed to be identified as “lead-safe.”
CHAPTER 50
TRACY SEWER USE REGULATIONS
 
50.01 Definitions                     50.06 Protection from Damage
50.02 Use of Public Sewers Required   50.07 Powers and Authority of
                                      Superintendent
50.03 Private Sewage Disposal         50.08 Infractions
50.04 Building Sewers and Connections 50.09 Misdemeanor Penalties
50.05 Use of Sanitary Sewers           
 
50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms
used in this chapter shall be as follows:
   1.   “BOD” (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand) means the quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20 degrees C, expressed in milligrams per
liter.
   2.   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system which receives the discharge from sewage pipes inside the walls
of the building and conveys it outside the walls of the building to the
building sewer.
   3.   “Building sewer” means that part of the lowest horizontal pipe which
begins outside of the wall of a building and connects the building drain with
the public sewer or other disposal terminal.
   4.   “Combined sewer” means a sewer receiving both surface runoff and
sewage.
   5.   “Garbage” means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial
preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage,
and sale of produce.
   6.   “Industrial wastes” means the liquid wastes from industrial
manufacturing processes, trade, or business as distinct from sewage.
   7.   “Mahaska Rural Water System” (MRWS) means the owner of the sewage
works.
   8.   “Natural outlet” means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch,
lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   9.   “Person” means any individual, firm, company, association, society,
corporation, tenant, property owner, or group.
   10.   “pH” means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen
ions in grams per liter of solution.
   11.   “Private sewer” means a building sewer line.
   12.   “Properly shredded garbage” means the wastes from the preparation,
cooking, and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that
all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally
prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any
dimension.
   13.   “Public sewer” means the sewage works.
   14.   “Sanitary sewer” means a pipeline which carries sewage and to which
storm, surface, and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   15.   “Service area” means the portion of the unincorporated or incorporated
area(s) in the County served by the public sewer owned and operated by MRWS.
   16.   “Sewage” means a combination of the water-carried wastes such as from
residences, business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments
from toilets, sinks, kitchen, bath, shower, and laundry facilities.
   17.   “Sewage treatment plant” means any arrangement of devices and
structures used for treating sewage.
   18.   “Sewage works” means all facilities for collecting, pumping, treating,
and disposing of sewage, including on-site systems owned and operated by MRWS.
   19.   “Sewer” means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   20.   “Slug” means any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which
in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for
any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average
24-hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   21.   “Storm drain” (sometimes termed “storm sewer”) means a sewer which
carries storm and surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and
industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   22.   “Superintendent” means the authorized deputy, agent, or representative
of MRWS.
   23.   “Suspended solids” means solids that either float on the surface of,
or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are
removable by laboratory filtering.
   24.   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
50.02 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited, in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
service area or in any area under the jurisdiction of said County, any sewage.
   2.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
service area any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this
chapter.
   3.   Except as herein after provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage in the service area other than the
public sewer owned and operated by MRWS.
   4.   A person that owns any houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purpose, situated within the
service area and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there
is now located, or may in the future be located, a public sewer is hereby
required to connect sewage facilities to the public sewer in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter, within 60 days after date of official notice to
do so.
50.03 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   Where a public sewer is not available, the building sewer shall be connected
to a private sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of the County
Board of Health.
50.04 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   1.   Specific Requirements.
      A.   Rainwater Leaders. Roof leaders, surface drains, or groundwater
drains shall not be connected to the sanitary sewer.
      B.   Connection to the Public Sewer. Before any connection is made to a
public sewer, an approved permit for such connection must be obtained from the
Superintendent.
      C.   Water softener recharge water may not be connected to the building
sewer.
   2.   Supervision. The Superintendent shall supervise all building sewers,
connections, and excavations for the purpose of installing or repairing the
same.
   3.   Specifications. Building sewers shall be constructed of materials
approved by the Superintendent.
   4.   Inspection. Each and every part of the building sewer shall be
inspected and approved by the Superintendent before being concealed or
backfilled.
50.05 USE OF SANITARY SEWERS.
   1.   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
      A.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      B.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer.
      C.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than five and a half or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      D.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, tar, feathers, plastics, wood,
un-ground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and
paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage
grinders.
      E.   Any waters or wastes having:
         (1)   A five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 300 parts per
million by weight, or
         (2)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids, or
         (3)   Having an average daily flow greater than 10 percent of the
average sewage flow of the service area, shall be subject to the review of the
Superintendent. Where necessary, in the opinion of the Superintendent, the
person shall provide, at his expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to:
            a.   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million
by weight, or
            b.   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by
weight, or
            c.   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters
or wastes.
   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced
until said approvals are obtained in writing.
   2.   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming their opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
      A.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150 degrees F
(65 degrees C).
      B.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/1 or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32- and 150-degrees F (zero
and 65 degrees C).
      C.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor greater than 1-
horsepower, shall be subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent.
      D.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      E.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials.
      F.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste-or order-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the State, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      G.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable State or federal regulations.
      H.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of nine and a half.
      I.   Materials which exert or cause:
         (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate).
         (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
         (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
         (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      J.   Waters or wastes containing substance which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   3.   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in Subsection 2, and which in the judgment of
the Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works,
processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard
to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      A.   Reject the wastes,
      B.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers,
      C.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge, or
      D.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by the sewer charges.
      E.   Other agreed upon method.
   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   4.   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspections.
   5.   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, the person controlling the preliminary treatment or
flow-equalizing facility shall maintain it in continuous and satisfactory
operations at the time person’s expense.
   6.   When required by the Superintendent, the person of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurements of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly
and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved
by the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the person at their
expense and shall be maintained by the person so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   7.   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater,” published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
   8.   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between Superintendent and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the Superintendent for treatment, subject to payment therefore, by
the industrial concern.
50.06 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall intentionally maliciously, willfully, or
negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any
structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the sewage works.
50.07 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF SUPERINTENDENT.  
   1.   The Superintendent, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The Superintendent shall have no authority to
inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining,
ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharge to the public sewers or waterways.
   2.   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in Section
50.05, the Superintendent shall observe all safety rules applicable to the
premises established by the person, and the person shall be held harmless for
injury or death to the Superintendent. MRWS shall indemnify the person against
loss or damage to its property by the Superintendent and against liability
claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the
person and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as much
may be caused by negligence or failure of the person to maintain safe
conditions as required in Section
50.05.
   3.   The Superintendent, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which the MRWS holds
a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
50.08 INFRACTIONS.
   1.   Any violation of this chapter, except a violation of Section
50.09, shall be a County infraction punishable by a civil penalty in accordance
with Section
1.11.
   2.   In addition to the civil penalty provided in Subsection 1 of this
section, the County may seek any relief available to it under Code of Iowa to
assure the abatement or correction of any violation of this chapter.
   3.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the County for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the County by
reason of such violation.
50.09 MISDEMEANOR PENALTIES.
   Any person found to have maliciously, willfully, or intentionally damaged,
destroyed, uncovered, defaced, or tampered with the sewage works shall be
guilty of a criminal violation of the Code of Iowa, and on conviction shall be
fined in an amount, as authorized by the Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 51
PURCHASE OF TAX SALE CERTIFICATES ON PARCELS WITH DELINQUENT TAXES AND
ABANDONED NUISANCE RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES
 
                                     51.05 Procedure for Public Nuisance Sale
51.01 Purpose                        Under Section 446.19B of the Code of
                                     Iowa
51.02 Definitions                    51.06 Assignment of Tax Sale
                                     Certificates
51.03 Purchasing Delinquent Taxes    51.07 Reserved
51.04 Procedure for Purchase for     51.08 Intent to Rehabilitate the
Housing Under Section 446.19A of the Property
Code of Iowa
 
51.01 PURPOSE.  
   The purpose of this chapter is to allow the County and the cities within the
County the opportunity to utilize Sections 446.19A and 446.19B of the Code of
Iowa, as may hereafter be amended. Section 446.19A of the Code of Iowa
authorizes counties and cities to bid on and purchase delinquent taxes and to
assign tax sale certificates of abandoned property or vacant lots. Section
446.19B of the Code of Iowa authorizes the County to separately offer and sell
at the annual tax sale delinquent taxes on parcels that are abandoned property
and are assessed as residential property or as commercial multifamily housing
property and that are, or are likely to become, a public nuisance.
51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, definitions for terms as defined in
Sections 446.19A and 446.19B of the Code of Iowa, as amended, are adopted.
51.03 PURCHASING DELINQUENT TAXES.
   1.   Pursuant to Section 446.19A of the Code of Iowa, as amended, the County
and each city in the County are authorized to bid on and purchase delinquent
taxes and to assign tax sale certificates of abandoned property or vacant lots.
   2.   Pursuant to Section 446.19B of the Code of Iowa, as amended, the County
Treasurer is authorized to separately offer and sell at the annual tax sale
delinquent taxes on parcels that are abandoned property and are assessed as
residential property or as commercial multifamily housing property and are, or
are likely to become, a public nuisance.
51.04 PROCEDURE FOR PURCHASE FOR HOUSING UNDER SECTION 446.19A OF THE CODE OF
IOWA.
   1.   Prior to a purchase, the County or city shall file with the County
Treasurer a verified statement that a parcel to be purchased is one of the
following:
      A.   Abandoned property and that the parcel is suitable for use as
housing following rehabilitation, or
      B.   A vacant lot.
   2.   The verified statement shall follow the form set by Section 446.19A(2)
of the Code of Iowa.
   3.   On the day of the regular tax sale or any continuance or adjournment of
the tax sale, the County Treasurer, on behalf of the County or a city, may bid
for and purchase tax sale certificates on abandoned property assessed as
residential property or as commercial multifamily housing property, or for a
vacant lot, a sum equal to the total amount due. The County or city shall not
pay money for the purchase, but each of the tax-levying and tax-certifying
bodies having any interest in the taxes shall be charged with the total amount
due to the tax-levying or tax-certifying body as its just share of the purchase
price. The provisions of Section 446.19A of the Code of Iowa apply.
   4.   The city or County may assign the tax sale certificate obtained
pursuant to Section 446.19A of the Code of Iowa. Persons who purchase
certificates from the city or County under this subsection are liable for the
total amount due to the certificate holder pursuant to Section 447.1 of the
Code of Iowa.
51.05 PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC NUISANCE SALE UNDER SECTION 446.19B OF THE CODE OF
IOWA.
   1.   On or before May 15, the County or city may file with the County
Treasurer a verified statement containing a listing of parcels and a
declaration that each parcel is abandoned property, each parcel is assessed as
residential property or as commercial multifamily housing property, each parcel
is, or is likely to become, a public nuisance, and that each parcel is suitable
for use as housing following rehabilitation.
      A.   The verified statement shall be published in the manner set out in
Section 446.19B(3) of the Code of Iowa.
   2.   On the day of the regular tax sale or any continuance or adjournment of
the tax sale, the County Treasurer shall separately offer and sell those
parcels listed in a verified statement timely received and properly published
and which remain liable to sale for delinquent taxes. This sale shall be known
as the “public nuisance tax sale.” The provisions of Section 446.19B of the
Code of Iowa shall apply.
   3.   If the holder of a certificate of purchase at the public nuisance tax
sale obtains a tax sale deed and subsequently determines that a building,
structure, or other improvement located on the parcel cannot be rehabilitated
for habitation, the tax sale deed holder may request approval from the Board of
Supervisors or the Council, if the property is located within a city, to
remove, dismantle, or demolish the building, structure, or other improvement.
   4.   All other provisions of Section 446.19B of the Code of Iowa shall
apply.
51.06 ASSIGNMENT OF TAX SALE CERTIFICATES.
   After the date that a parcel is sold pursuant to Sections 446.18 or 446.19A
of the Code of Iowa, if the parcel assessed as residential property or as
commercial multifamily housing property is identified as abandoned or a vacant
lot in the same form set forth in Section 446.19A(2) of the Code of Iowa, a
County or city may require the assignment of the tax sale certificate that had
been used for such parcel by paying to the holder of such certificate the total
amount due on the date the assignment of the certificate is made to the County
or city and recorded with the County Treasurer. If the certificate is not
reassigned by the County or city, the County or city, whichever is applicable,
is liable for the tax sale interest that was due to the certificate holder
pursuant to Section 447.1 of the Code of Iowa, as of the date of assignment.
51.07 RESERVED.
51.08 INTENT TO REHABILITATE THE PROPERTY.
   1.   All persons who purchase certificates from the County or city pursuant
to Section 51.04 shall demonstrate the intent to rehabilitate the property for
habitation or build a residential structure on the vacant lot if the property
is not redeemed. In the alternative, the County or city may, if the title to
the property has vested in the County or city under Section 448.1 of the Code
of Iowa, dispose of the property in accordance with Sections 331.361 or 364.7
of the Code of Iowa, as applicable.
   2.   To be eligible to bid at a public nuisance sale under Section 51.05,
all prospective bidders shall enter into a rehabilitation agreement with the
County, or with the city if the property is located within a city, to
demonstrate the intent to rehabilitate the property for use as housing if the
property is not redeemed.
CHAPTER 54
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
 
54.01 Enforcement Officer          54.05 Conduct of Hearing
54.02 General Definition of Unsafe 54.06 Posting of Signs
54.03 Unsafe Building              54.07 Right to Demolish
54.04 Notice to Owner              54.08 Costs
 
54.01 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Board of Supervisors or their appointed designee shall be responsible
for the enforcement of this chapter.
54.02 GENERAL DEFINITION OF UNSAFE.
   All buildings or structures which are structurally unsafe or not provided
with adequate egress, or which constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise
dangerous to human life, or which in relation to existing use constitute a
hazard to safety or health, or public welfare, by reason of inadequate
maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, or abandonment, as specified in this
chapter or any ordinance, are, for the purpose of this chapter, unsafe
buildings. All such unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be public nuisances
and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal in
accordance with the procedure specified in this chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 331.384(1)(C) and 657A.1)
54.03 UNSAFE BUILDING.
   “Unsafe building” means any structure or mobile home meeting any or all of
the following criteria:
   1.   Collapse of Member. Whenever any portion, or member, or appurtenance
thereof is likely to fail, or to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse
and thereby injure persons or damage property.
   2.   Wind Resistance. Whenever any portion of a building, or any member,
appurtenance, or ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient
strength or stability, or is not so anchored, attached, or fastened in place so
as to be capable of resisting a wind pressure of 20 pounds per square foot.
   3.   Material Deterioration. Whenever any portion thereof has cracked,
warped, buckled, or settled to such an extent that walls or other structural
portions have materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is
required in the case of similar new construction.
   4.   Various Inadequacies. Whenever the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, because of
      A.   Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay;
      B.   Faulty construction;
      C.   The removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the ground
necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
      D.   The deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or
      E.   Any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse.
   5.   Manifestly Unsafe. Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure,
or any portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is
being used.
   6.   Exterior Walls. Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical
structural members list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line
passing through the center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third
of the base.
   7.   Deterioration. Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the
foundation, shows 33 percent or more damage or deterioration of its supporting
member or members, or 50 percent damage or deterioration of its nonsupporting
members, enclosing or outside walls or coverings.
   8.   Damaged Structurally. Whenever the building or structure has been so
damaged by fire, wind, earthquake, or flood, or has become so dilapidated or
deteriorated as to become
      A.   An attractive nuisance to children;
      B.   A harbor for vagrants, criminals, or immoral persons; or as to
      C.   Enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose of committing
unlawful or immoral acts.
   9.   Inadequate Maintenance. Whenever a building or structure, used or
intended to be used for dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, decay, damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate
light, air, or sanitation facilities, or otherwise, is determined by any health
officer to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such condition that
it is likely to cause sickness or disease.
   10.   Fire Hazard. Whenever any building or structure, because of
obsolescence, dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits,
lack of sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas
connections or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the Fire
Marshal or appropriate County official to be a fire hazard.
   11.   Public Nuisance. Whenever any building or structure is in such a
condition as to constitute a public nuisance known to the common law or in
equity jurisprudence.
   12.   Abandoned. Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on
a site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building, or portion thereof, an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
54.04 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   The Enforcement Officer shall examine, or cause to be examined, every
building or structure, or portion thereof, reported as dangerous or damaged
and, if such is found to be an unsafe building as defined in this chapter or
determined by assessment by a licensed structural engineer, the Enforcement
Officer shall give to the owner of such building or structure written notice
stating the defects thereof. This notice may require the owner or person in
charge of the building or premises, within 48 hours or such reasonable time as
the circumstances require, to commence either the required repairs or
improvements or demolition and removal of the building or structure, or
portions thereof, and all such work shall be completed within 90 days from date
of notice, unless otherwise stipulated by the Enforcement Officer. If
necessary, such notice shall also require the building, structure, or portion
thereof to be vacated forthwith and not reoccupied until the required repairs
and improvements are completed, inspected, and approved by the Enforcement
Officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 331.384(2))
   1.   Notice Served. Such notice shall be served by sending by certified mail
to owner of record, according to Section 331.384(2) of the Code of Iowa. The
designated period within which said owner or person in charge is required to
comply with the order of the Enforcement Officer shall begin as of the date the
owner receives such notice.
   2.   Hearing. Such notice shall also advise the owner that they may request
a hearing before the Board of Supervisors by filing a written request for
hearing within the time provided in the notice.
54.05 CONDUCT OF HEARING.
   If requested, the Board of Supervisors shall conduct a hearing in accordance
with the following:
   1.   Notice. The owner shall be served with written notice specifying the
date, time, and place of hearing.
   2.   Owner’s Rights. At the hearing, the owner may appear and show cause why
the alleged nuisance shall not be abated.
   3.   Determination. The Board of Supervisors shall make and record findings
of fact and may issue such order as it deems appropriate.
   4.   Appeal. Owner of property may appeal the Board of Supervisor’s findings
of fact and order to the Marion County District Court. An appeal must be filed
within 14 days of the date of the Board of Supervisors’ order.
54.06 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   The Enforcement Officer shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such
building a notice to read: “DO NOT ENTER. UNSAFE TO OCCUPY. COUNTY OF MARION,
IOWA.” Such notice shall remain posted until the required repairs, demolition,
or removal are completed. Such notice shall not be removed without written
permission of the Enforcement Officer and no person shall enter the building,
except for the purpose of making the required repairs or of demolishing the
building.
54.07 RIGHT TO DEMOLISH.
   In case the owner fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with the notice to
repair, rehabilitate, or to demolish and remove the building or structure or
portion thereof, the Board of Supervisors may order the owner of the building
prosecuted as a violator of the provisions of this chapter and may order the
Enforcement Officer to proceed with the work specified in such notice. A
statement of the cost of such work shall be transmitted to the Board of
Supervisors.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 331.384(2))
54.08 COSTS.
   Costs incurred under Sections
54.06 and
54.07 shall be paid out of the County treasury. Such costs shall be charged to
the owner of the premises involved and levied as a special assessment against
the land on which the building or structure is located, and shall be certified
to the County Treasurer for collection in the manner provided for other taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 331.384(2))
CHAPTER 55
ZONING REGULATIONS
55.01 Title and Purpose                55.22 Off-Street Parking Area Required
55.02 Interpretation of Standards      55.23 Districts Established
55.03 Agricultural Exemption           55.24 Agricultural Zoning District
                                       Regulations (A-1, C-A, and A-R)
55.04 Zoning Commission                55.25 Residential Zoning District
                                       Regulations (R-1, R-2, R-3, and R-4)
55.05 Definitions                      55.26 Commercial Zoning District
                                       Regulations (C-1 and C-2)
55.06 Official Zoning Map              55.27 Industrial Zoning District
                                       Regulations (M-1 and M-2)
55.07 Vacated Streets                  55.28 Overlay District Regulations (FP,
                                       AHL, and RPZ)
55.08 Disincorporation                 55.29 Supplemental and Qualifying
                                       Regulations
55.09 Interpretation of District       55.30 Site Plan Regulations
Boundaries
55.10 Application of District          55.31 Temporary Site Plans
Regulations
55.11 Nonconforming Uses               55.32 Applications for Building Permits
55.12 Visibility at Intersections in   55.33 Enforcement by Zoning
All Districts                          Administrator
55.13 Street Frontage Required         55.34 Violations and Penalties
55.14 Accessory Structures             55.35 Board of Adjustment; Appointment
                                       and Terms; Meetings
55.15 Corner Lots                      55.36 Applications; Appeals and Hearings
55.16 Building Lines on Approved Plats 55.37 Powers and Duties of Board of
                                       Adjustment
55.17 Zoning Districts Dividing        55.38 Special Use Permits
Property
55.18 Home Occupations                 55.39 Variances
55.19 Prohibited Storage of Motor      55.40 Decisions of the Board of
Vehicles                               Adjustment
55.20 Sign Regulations                 55.41 District Changes and Amendments
55.21 Off-Street Loading Spaces         
Required
 
55.01 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the “Marion
County, Iowa, Zoning Code,” and is referred to herein as the “Zoning Code.” The
Zoning Code is adopted for the purpose of promoting public health, safety,
morals, comfort, and general welfare; to conserve and protect property and
property values, to secure and provide the social and economic advantages
resulting from an orderly planned use of land resources; and to facilitate
adequate, but economical provisions for public improvements, all in accordance
with a Comprehensive Plan and as permitted by the provisions of Chapter 335 of
the Code of Iowa.
55.02 INTERPRETATION OF STANDARDS.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements. Where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction than is imposed or required by other provisions of law or by other
rules, regulations, or resolutions, the provisions of this Zoning Code shall
control.
55.03 AGRICULTURAL EXEMPTION.
   In accordance with the provisions of Chapter 335 of the Code of Iowa, no
regulation or restriction adopted under the provisions of this chapter shall be
construed to apply to land, farm houses, farm barns, farm outbuildings, or
other buildings, structures, or erections which are primarily adapted, by
reason of nature and area, for use for agricultural purposes, while so used;
provided, however, such regulations or restrictions which relate to any
structure, building, dam, obstruction, deposit, or excavation in or on the
floodplains of any river or stream shall apply thereto. It is the
responsibility of any person or group claiming that certain property is
entitled to exemption on the basis of this section to demonstrate that the
property is used for agricultural purposes. Refer to Section 55.05 of this
chapter for definition of “farm” to identify land used by reason of nature and
area for agricultural purposes. Agricultural exemptions may be considered only
for lots or tracts of land 10 acres or larger in size. In cases where the
existing farmhouse is proposed to be divided from a remnant farm parcel, both
the farm house parcel and the remnant farm parcel must be at least 10 acres in
size following the lot split in order for said parcels to qualify for an
agricultural exemption.
55.04 ZONING COMMISSION.
   The County Planning and Zoning Commission, as established under Section
335.8 of the Code of Iowa, is the Zoning Commission referred to in this Code.
   1.   Membership. The Zoning Commission shall consist of five members to be
appointed by the Board of Supervisors for a term of five years. Members shall
reside within the County but outside the corporate limits of any city.
Vacancies shall be filled by the Board of Supervisors for only the unexpired
term of the member affected. All members of the Zoning Commission shall serve
without compensation. Immediately following their appointment, the members of
the Zoning Commission shall meet, organize, elect such officers as it may deem
necessary, and adopt and later change or alter, rules, and regulations of
organization and procedure consistent with County ordinances and State laws.
The Zoning Commission shall keep written records of its proceedings which shall
be open at all times to public inspection.
   2.   Powers and Duties. The Zoning Commission shall hold the following
powers and discharge the following duties under this chapter:
      A.   Make such surveys, studies, maps, plans, or charts of the whole of
the County which, in the opinion of the Zoning Commission, bears relation to
the Comprehensive Plan and shall bring to the attention of the Board of
Supervisors, and may publish its studies and recommendations.
      B.   Review all plans, plats or replats, or subdivision or resubdivision
of land embraced in the County, laid out in lots or plats with the streets,
alleys, or other portions intended for public dedication to the County.
      C.   Make careful and comprehensive studies of present conditions and
future growth of the County with due regard to its relation to neighboring
territory. The Comprehensive Plan shall be made with the general purpose of
guiding and accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted, and harmonious development
of the County and its environment which will promote health, safety, morals,
order, convenience, prosperity, and general welfare, as well as efficiency and
economy in the process of development.
      D.   Recommend a comprehensive plan for adoption or amendment that may be
adopted by the Board of Supervisors. The Board of Supervisors shall not hold a
public hearing or take action on the recommendation until it has received the
Zoning Commission’s final report containing the recommendation.
      E.   Recommend to the Board of Supervisors changes in the zoning
regulations or districts.
      F.   File recommendations, within 30 days, in connection with any
proposed changes in the zoning regulations or districts made by the Board of
Supervisors.
      G.   Hold at least one public hearing prior to any action item as
required, pertaining to this chapter, that is to be reviewed by the Board of
Supervisors, notice of which shall be given by local newspaper not less than
four or more than 20 days before the date of the hearing. A formal
recommendation from the Planning and Zoning Commission to the Board of
Supervisors shall then be made.  Landowners within 500 feet of the property
concerned (or 200 feet if currently zoned residential) shall be notified by
mail about the proposed action and public hearing.
   3.   Zoning Administrator.
      A.   The position of Zoning Administrator shall be appointed by the Board
of Supervisors. The Zoning Administrator shall administer and enforce the
provisions of this chapter and shall have the following powers and duties in
connection therewith:
         (1)   Issue all permits and certificates required by this chapter.
         (2)   Upon finding that any of the provisions of this chapter are
being violated, shall notify in writing the person responsible for such
violations, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action
necessary to correct it. The Administrator or designee shall order
discontinuance of the illegal use of land, buildings, or structures; the
removal of illegal buildings or structures, or of additions, alteration, or
structural changes thereto; the discontinuance of any illegal work being done;
or shall take any other action authorized by this chapter and the Board of
Supervisors to insure compliance with or to prevent violation of its
provisions.
         (3)   Keep a record of all permits, appeals, variances, and such other
transactions and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this
chapter.
      B.   All departments, officials, and public employees of the County who
are vested with the duty or authority to issue permits shall insure conformance
to the provisions of this chapter and shall issue no permit for any use,
building, or purpose if the same would be in conflict with the provisions of
this chapter.
      C.   The Board of Supervisors may, by resolution, delegate the powers and
duties of the office of the Zoning Administrator to any other officer or
employee of the County, or of any city, town, or governmental subdivision
within the County, or may combine the powers and duties of this office with any
other office or position.
   4.   Secretary of the Zoning Commission and the Board of Adjustment.
      A.   Jurisdiction. The Secretary of the Zoning Commission and the
Secretary of the Board of Adjustment shall be the Zoning Administrator or their
designee.
         (1)   The Secretary of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall attend
all meetings of the Zoning Commission, take full and accurate minutes of the
proceedings, prepare all necessary reports and documents for and on behalf of
the Zoning Commission, and perform such duties and functions as may be
necessary for the orderly recording of the business of the Zoning Commission.
         (2)   The Secretary of the Board of Adjustment shall attend all
meetings of the Board of Adjustment, take full and necessary reports and
documents for and on behalf of the Board of Adjustment, and perform such other
duties and functions as may be necessary for the orderly recording of the
business of the Board of Adjustment.
55.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms and words are defined,
and the words “used or occupied” include the words “intended, designed, or
arranged to be used or occupied.”
   1.   Words beginning with “A.”
      A.   “Accessory dwelling unit” (ADU) means an additional residential
dwelling unit located on the same lot as a single-family residence that is
either attached to or detached from the single-family residence.
      B.   “Accessory use” or “structure” means a use or structure subordinate
to the principal use of a building on the lot and serving a purpose customarily
incidental to the use of the principal building. Accessory structures include,
but are not limited to, garages, sheds, decks, gazebos, swimming pools, and
playground equipment. For purposes of this chapter, fences, temporary swimming
pools that are removed each winter, concrete patios, and driveways shall not be
considered an accessory structure.
      C.   “Adult” refers to a person who has attained the age of 18 years.
      D.   “Adult entertainment business” means a business which, as a part of
or in the process of delivering goods and services, displays to its patrons
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas in printed form or
through any form of photographic medium or by use of male or female models. In
reference to the above, the following definitions apply:
         
(1)   “Adult art studio” or “adult modeling studio” means an establishment or business which provides the
services of modeling for the purpose of viewing or reproducing the human body, wholly or partially, in the
nude by means of photography,
painting, sketching, drawing or otherwise; provided entrance to such establishment and such services are available only to adults.
         (2)   “Adult artist -
 body painting studio” means an establishment or business which provides the services of
applying paint or other substance, whether transparent or nontransparent, to or on the human body when such body
is wholly or partially nude; provided entrance to such establishment and such services are available only to
adults.
         
(3)   “Adult bath house” means an establishment or business which provides the services of baths of all kinds,
including all forms and methods of hydrotherapy; provided entrance to such establishment and such services are
available only to adults; and not including such services provided by a medical practitioner or professional
physical therapist licensed by the State.
         (4)   “Adult bookstore” means an establishment or business having a
substantial part of its stock in trade, books, magazines, photographs, pictures
and other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined herein, and limited in
sale of such sexual materials to adults.
         (5)   “Adult cabaret” means a cabaret which features go-
go dancers, exotic dancers, strippers, male or female
impersonators, or similar entertainers.
         
(6)   “Adult massage” means any method of treating the external parts of the human body by rubbing, stroking,
kneading, tapping, or vibrating with the hand, other parts of the body,
or any instrument, for any consideration or gratuity.
         
(7)   “Adult massage establishment” means any establishment having a fixed place of business where massages
are administered for any form of consideration or gratuity,
including, but not limited to, massage parlors, health clubs, sauna baths, and steam baths.  This definition shall not be construed to include an establishment
employing: 
            a.   Persons licensed by the State under the provisions of Chapters 148, 148A, 148B, 148C,
149, 150, 150A, 151, 152, 152B, 152C, 157, or 158 of the Code of Iowa, when performing massage services as a
part of the profession or trade for which licensed.
            b.   Persons performing massage therapy or massage services
under the direction of a person licensed as described in Lettered Subparagraph
a above.
            c.   Persons performing massage therapy or
massage services upon a person pursuant to the written instruction or order of a licensed physician.
            d.   Nurses,
aides, technicians, and attendants at any hospital or health care facility licensed pursuant to Chapter 135B, 135C,
or 145A of the Code of
Iowa, in the course of their employment and under the supervision of the administrator
thereof or of a person licensed as described in Lettered Subparagraph a above.
            e.   An athletic coach or trainer in any accredited public
or private secondary school, junior college, college, or university,
or employed by a professional or semi-professional athletic team or
organization, in the course of their employment as such coach or trainer.
         This definition shall not be construed to include a volunteer fire department, a volunteer rescue squad, or a nonprofit
organization operating a community center,
swimming pool, tennis court, or other educational, cultural, or recreational and athletic facilities, and facilities for the welfare of the residents of the area.
         (8)   “Adult mini motion picture theater” means an enclosed building
with a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting motion pictures,
slides, or photographic reproductions distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matters depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas as defined herein for observation by
patrons therein.
         
(9)   “Adult motel” means a motel wherein material is presented which is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
         
(10)   “Adult motion picture arcade” means any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein coin or
slug-operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image-
producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
         
(11)   “Adult motion picture theater” means an enclosed building used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas for observation by patrons therein.
         
(12)   “Juice bar” means any establishment where alcoholic beverages are prohibited and where for any form of
consideration or gratuity,
models, dancers, strippers, and similar entertainers perform in nude or semi-
nude for observation by patrons therein.
         
(13)   “Model” means any person who, for consideration or gratuity, appears either nude or semi-
nude to be either
viewed, photographed, sketched, drawn, sculptured; to dance; to provide reading or counseling sessions; for body
painting; to deliver a service or in connection with the sale of merchandise; or to present materials distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
         
(14)   “Model studio” means any establishment where, for any form of consideration or
gratuity,
models who display specified anatomical areas are provided to be observed, or subject to lawful tactile conduct, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by persons paying such consideration or
gratuity, or where for any form of consideration or gratuity, nude or semi-
nude dancing, readings, counseling sessions, body painting and other activities that present materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are provided for
observation by or communication to persons paying such consideration or
gratuity.
         
(15)   “Nude encounter parlor” means an establishment having a fixed place of business where any person,
therein engages in, conducts, or carries on, or permits to be engaged in, conducted, or carried on, any business of
viewing any person or persons or the actual encounter of any person or persons depicting, describing, or relating
to specified sexual activities as defined herein.
         
(16)   “Nude photographic parlor” means an establishment having a fixed place of business, where any person,
association, firm, or corporation therein engages in, conducts, or carries on, or permits to be engaged in,
conducted, or carried on any business of photographing any person or persons depicting, describing, or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined herein.
         
(17)   “Specified anatomical areas” means human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, and female breasts below a
point immediately above the top of the areola.
         
(18)   “Specified sexual activities” means any sexual contact, actual or simulated, either natural or deviate,
between two or more persons, or between a person and an animal, by penetration of the penis into the vagina or
anus, or by contact between a finger of one person and the genitalia of another person or by use of artificial
sexual organs or substitute therefor in contact with the genitalia or anus.
         (19)   “Substantial” means more than 25
percent of the book, magazine, film, or video tape inventory is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
         An adult entertainment business is any one or more of the above or similar uses, which are customarily not open
to persons who have not attained the age of 18 years.
      E.   “Agriculture” means the use of land for purposes of growing the usual agricultural or farm products,
including vegetables, fruit, trees and grains, pasturage, dairying, livestock and poultry
husbandry,
and the necessary accessory uses for treating or storing the produce, provided that the operation of such accessory uses
shall be secondary to that of the regular agricultural activities.
 If the tract of land is less than 10 acres, it shall be
presumed by nature and area that the tract is not primarily used for agricultural purposes.
      F.   “Airport hazard” means any structure, tree, or obstruction determined to have a substantial adverse
effect on the safe and efficient
utilization of the navigable airspace for the purpose of determining the height limits as set forth in Chapter 62 and Chapter 63.
      G.   “Airport, official” means an official airport having height
restrictions approved by the County, included as a chapter in this Code, and
regulated by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
      H.   “Airstrip, private” means a private air strip or air field that is not an
official airport but may be regulated by the Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA),
provided a Special Use Permit and Airport Layout Plan have been approved by the
County.
The owner of the private airstrip shall own or have a legally recorded easement covering the airstrip, runway protection zone, and all facilities as shown on the approved Site Plan.  For the
purposes of this chapter,
the leasing or selling of hanger space or runway use shall not be permitted in any private airstrip.
      I.   “Apartment” means a room or suite of rooms in a multiple dwelling intended for or designed for use as a
residence by a single-family. 
      J.   “Automobile salvage yard” means dismantling or wrecking of motor vehicles or trailers, or the storage, sale,
or dumping of dismantled or wrecked vehicles or their parts.  The presence on any lot, parcel, or tract of land, of
nine or more vehicles which for a period exceeding 30 days have not been capable of operating under
their own power,
and from which parts have been removed or are to be removed for reuse, salvage, or sale, shall constitute prima facie 
evidence of an automobile salvage yard.  (See also “salvage yard.”)
   2.   Words beginning with “B.”
      A.   “Basement” means a story having part, but not more than one-
half, of its height below grade.  A basement
is counted as a story for the purpose of height regulations.
      B.   “Bed and breakfast home” means a private residence which provides lodging and meals for guests, in which
the host or hostess resides and in which no more than two guest families are lodged at the same time and
which, while it may advertise and accept reservations, does not hold itself out to the public to be a restaurant,
hotel, or motel, does not require reservations, and serves food only to overnight guests.
      C.   “Billboard” includes all structures, regardless of the material used in the construction of the same, that are
erected, maintained, or used for public display of posters, painted signs, wall signs, whether the structure be
placed on the wall or painted on the wall itself, pictures or other pictorial reading matter which advertise a
business or attraction which is not carried on or manufactured in or upon the premises upon which said signs or
billboards are located.
      D.   “Board” means Marion County Board of Adjustment.
      E.   “Boarding house” means a building, other than a hotel, where for compensation, meals, or lodging and meals
are provided for five or more persons.
      F.   “Borrow pit” means any place or premises where dirt, soil, sand, gravel, or other material is removed below
the grade of surrounding land for any purpose other than that necessary and incidental to site grading or building
construction.
      G.   “Buffer zone” means an area of land used to visibly separate one use
from another or to shield or block noise, lights, or other nuisances.
      H.   “Build-to line” is a line created by existing principal building
lines of neighboring properties.
      I.   “Building” means any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure, shelter, or protection of
persons, animals, or property,
but not including signs or billboards.  When a structure is divided in separate parts by unpierced walls extending from the ground up, each part is deemed a separate building.
      J.   “Building line” means the extreme over-all
dimensions of a building as determined from its exterior walls or any part of a structural support or component which is nearest to the property line, other than usual uncovered
steps, patios, and decks. 
      K.   “Building, height of” means the vertical distance from the average natural grade at the building line to the
highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the mean height level
between eaves and ridge for gable, hip, and gambrel roofs.
      L.   “Building permit” means a written statement issued by the Zoning Administrator authorizing buildings,
structures, or uses consistent with the terms of this Zoning Code and for the purpose of carrying out and
enforcing its provisions.
      M.   “Bulk stations” means distributing stations commonly known as bulk or tank stations, used for the storage
and distribution of flammable liquids, or liquefied petroleum products where the aggregate capacity of all storage
tanks is more than 6,000 gallons.
   3.   Words beginning with “C.”
      A.   “Cabin” means a dwelling that is utilized primarily for recreational
purposes. Such structure is not to be utilized as a primary residence, nor will
it be occupied for more than 182 days in a calendar year.
      B.   “Campground” means an area or tract of land on which accommodations
for temporary occupancy are located or may be placed, including cabins, tents,
and major recreational equipment, and which is primarily used for recreational
purposes and retains an open air or natural character whether commercial or
non-commercial. Commercial campgrounds contain one or more campsites that are
available to the general public, including non- profit organizations, for
short-term stays for a fee. Non-commercial campgrounds in any agricultural
district shall not be considered a campground for purposes of this chapter
unless the parcel contains permanent infrastructure related to said
campgrounds. Noncommercial campgrounds in any residential district shall not be
considered a campground for purposes of this chapter unless there is more than
one occupied campsite on the parcel. Further, any campground that is developed,
redeveloped, or improved with permanent infrastructure after the effective date
of this ordinance shall be required to obtain Site Plan approval in accordance
with this chapter.
      C.   “Canopy” means a permanent roofed structure, including marquees and awnings, attached to and supported
by a building and projecting from a building.
      D.   “Car wash” means an area of land or a structure with machine-
 or hand-operated facilities used
principally for the cleaning, washing, polishing, or waxing of motor vehicles.
      E.   “Carport” means a roofed structure providing space for the parking of motor vehicles and enclosed on not
more than two sides.  For the purpose of this chapter,
a carport attached to a principal building shall be considered as part of the principal building and subject to all yard requirements herein.
      F.   “Cellar” means that portion of a building having more than one-
half of its height below grade.  A cellar
is not included in computing the number of stories for the purpose of height measurement.
      G.   “Cemetery” means land used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead, including mausoleums,
columbarium’s, and crematoriums when operated in conjunction with and within the boundary of such
cemetery. 
      H.   “Church” or
“place of religious worship” means an institution that people regularly attend to participate in or
hold religious services, meetings, and other activities.  The term “church” shall not carry a secular connotation and
shall include buildings in which the religious services of any denomination are held.
      I.   “Clinic, medical or dental” means a building or buildings in which physicians, dentists, or allied professional
assistants are associated for the purpose of carrying on their professions.
      J.   “Club” means an organization
of persons for special purposes or for the promulgation of sports, arts, literature, politics, fitness, or the like, but not operated for profit, excluding churches, or other houses of worship.
      K.   “Cocktail lounge” means any place of business, other than a “night
club,” located in and accessory to a hotel, motel, or restaurant, where liquor,
beer, or wine is sold for consumption on the premises, where music or other
entertainment is limited to a piano bar or other one person performance.
      L   “Commercial use” means the barter,
exchange, sale, service or trade of goods, materials, or services, either tangible or intangible, for financial, material, or monetary gain.
      M.   “Commission” or “Zoning Commission” means the Marion County Zoning
Commission.
      N.   “Communications tower” means a structure that is intended for
transmitting or receiving television, radio, or telephone communications.
      O.   “Comprehensive Plan” means the Comprehensive Plan for the County,
which sets forth the County’s long-range plans for land use and transportation
management and development policies to guide the County’s growth and on which
the County’s zoning regulations shall be based.
      P.   “Concentrating Solar Power System (CSP)” means an energy system that
uses lenses or mirrors and tracking systems to focus or reflect a large area of
sunlight onto a small area. The concentrated energy is absorbed by a thermal
medium, such as water, salt, or a permanently gaseous fluid, and used as a heat
source for a conventional power plan, such as a steam power plant, or for a
power conversion unit, such as a sterling engine. Although several
concentrating solar technologies exist, the most common types are the solar
trough, parabolic dish, and solar power tower. Energy storage technologies used
by concentrating solar thermal devices (e.g. molten salt storage) are also
included within this definition.
      Q.   “Conditional use” – see “special use.”
      R.   “Condominium” means an estate in real property, as regulated by Chapter 499B of the Code of Iowa,
consisting of an undivided interest in common with other purchasers in a portion of a parcel of real
property,
together with a separate interest in space in a building, such as an apartment.  A condominium may include, in
addition, a separate interest in other portions of such real property.
      S.   “Conservation easement” means an easement granting a right or interest in real property that is appropriate
to retaining land or water areas predominantly in their natural, scenic, open, wooded, or topographic condition,
retaining such areas as suitable habitat for fish, plants, or wildlife; or maintaining existing slopes and land use.
      T.   “Convenience store” means any retail establishment offering
for sale food products, household items and other goods commonly found in grocery stores, as well as retail gas sales, and having a gross floor area of more
than 1,200 square feet but less than 5,000 square feet.
      U.   “Cul-de-sac” means a local street, one end of which is closed and
consists of a circular turn around.
   4.   Words beginning with “D.”
      A.   “Dangerous building” means all buildings or structures that are
structurally unsafe or not provided with adequate egress, or which constitute a
fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human life, or which, in relation to
existing use, constitute a hazard to safety or health, or public welfare, by
reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, or abandonment,
as specified in this chapter, the Code of Iowa, or any other ordinance, are,
for the purpose of this chapter, unsafe and dangerous buildings.
      B.   “Daycare center,” “day nursery,” or
“nursery school” means any private or public agency,
institution, establishment, or place which provides supplemental parental care or educational work, other than lodging
overnight, for seven or more unrelated children of preschool age, for compensation.
      C.   “Daycare home” means a private residence where care, protection, and supervision are provided, for a fee, at
least twice a week to less than seven children at one time.
      D.   “Density, gross” means the gross number of dwelling units permitted
per gross acre of gross land within a defined area, including public streets
and open spaces.
      E.   “Density, net” means the number of dwelling units per net acre of
land being developed, exclusive of public streets and open spaces.
      F.   “Development” means any subdivision of land or man-
made changes to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction of buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
paving, excavation, or drilling operations.
      G.   “District” means a section or sections of the County within which the regulations governing the use of
buildings and premises or the height and area of buildings and premises are uniform.
      H.   “Drive-in facility” means an establishment that, by design of
physical facilities or by service or packaging procedures, permits customers to
receive a service or obtain a product while remaining in a motor vehicle or to
be entertained while remaining in a motor vehicle.
      I.   “Driveway” means a privately owned roadway giving access from a
public street to a building plat or abutting property.
      J.   “Dump” means a premises used for illegal discarding of trash,
garbage, junk or other refuse; but not including legally operating, and fills
or junk yards.
      K.   “Dwelling” means a structure, or portion thereof, that is used
exclusively for human habitation.
      L.   “Dwelling unit” means a room or group of rooms which are arranged,
designed, or used as a dwelling for the occupancy of one family containing
sleeping, bathroom, and kitchen facilities.
      M.   “Dwelling, condominium” means a multiple dwelling as defined herein
whereby the title to each dwelling unit is held in separate ownership, and the
real estate on which the units are located is held in common ownership solely
by the owners of the units, with each owner having an undivided interest in the
common real estate.
      N.   “Dwelling, garden home” means a building containing only one
dwelling unit on a separate lot and designed for and occupied exclusively for
residence purposes by only one family within a townhome development.
      O.   “Dwelling, multiple family” means a residence designed for or
occupied by three or more families, with separate housekeeping and cooking
facilities for each.
      P.   “Dwelling, row” means any one of two or more horizontally attached
dwelling units in a continuous row located within a townhome development. Each
dwelling is erected as a unit on a separate lot having an individual entrance.
No more than six units shall be permitted in a single structure.
      Q.   “Dwelling, single-family” means a structure maintained and used as a
single dwelling unit. Notwithstanding that a dwelling unit shares on or more
walls with another dwelling unit, it is a single-family residence if it has
direct access to a street or thoroughfare and shares neither heating
facilities, hot water equipment, nor any other essential facility or service
with another dwelling unit.
      R.   “Dwelling, two-family” (duplex) means a residence designed for or
occupied by two families only, with separate housekeeping and cooking
facilities for each.
      S.   “Dwelling, tiny house” means a small building designed for use as a
residential dwelling, generally 400 square feet or less. Tiny houses on wheels
shall be considered an RV or camper for purposes of this Code, unless properly
tied-down and skirted, in which case it shall be considered as a mobile homes.
Tiny houses on permanent foundations shall be considered to be a single-family
detached dwelling.
      T.   “Dwelling, townhome” or “townhouse” means a row dwelling or garden
home which is characterized by common elements which are specified in or
determined under the rules and regulations set forth by recorded covenants.
Said covenants shall establish the guidelines for maintenance of common
elements and permit free movement through common areas by members of the
homeowner’s association to assure access to the structure exterior of each
townhome unit by the individual unit owner.
   5.   Words beginning with “E.”
      A.   “Easement” means a granted right by a landowner to a person,
government agency, or public utility company to use land owned by another for a
specific purpose.
      B.   “Exotic animals” means animals, other than domesticated livestock,
poultry, or common pets such as cats, dogs, hamsters, guinea pigs, canaries, or
other similar pets as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
   6.   Words beginning with “F.”
      A.   “Fall zone” means the area of land centered beneath the tower and
circumscribed by a circle with a radius equal to a length of one foot for every
10 feet of tower structure height. No structures other than fences shall be
constructed or permitted with any required fall zone. The area within any
required fall zone shall be owned, leased, or in an easement running to the
benefit of the tower owner.
      B.   “Family” means a group of individuals related by blood, marriage, or
adoption and not more than three unrelated individuals living together and
occupying a dwelling unit; a group of not more than five unrelated persons
living together by joint agreement; the residents of an elder family home as
defined in Section 231A.2 of the Code of Iowa; or residents of a family home as
defined in Section 414.22(4)(c) of the Code of Iowa. Only one family may reside
in any dwelling unit.
      C.   “Farm” means a land area comprised of 10 acres or more which is used
for agriculture.
      D.   “Feedlot” means any parcel of land or premises on which the
principal use is the concentrated feeding within a confined area of cattle,
hogs, or sheep. The term does not include areas which are used for the raising
of crops or other vegetation, and upon which livestock are allowed to graze or
feed.
      E.   “Fill” means to raise the grade of land with the depositing of
earth.
      F.   “Flashing lights” means a sudden or transient outburst of bright
light; a flood of light briefly appearing and disappearing, or a single flash
at regular intervals, the duration of light always being less than the duration
of darkness.
      G.   “Flea market” means an occasional or periodic sales activity held
within a building, structure, or open area where groups of individual sellers
offer goods for sale to the public, not to include private garage sales.
      H.   “Flood” means a general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of
streams or rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from
any source.
      I.   “Floodplain” means a land area susceptible to being inundated by
water as a result of a flood.
      J.   “Floor” means the lower horizontal surface of a hollow structure,
story, or room, or the horizontal structure which separates stories in a
building.
      K.   “Floor area” means the total area of all floors of a building, or
portion thereof, measured to the outside surface of exterior walls or the
centerline of walls to attached buildings or uses. It does not include garages,
porches, balconies, and other appurtenances. Space in the basement or cellar
and all other space shall be included as floor area if habitable and used for a
principal or accessory use permitted in the zone in which the building is
located.
      L.   “Floor area ratio” means the square footage of floor area on all
floors divided by the land area within the property lines.
      M.   “Foundation” means the part of the structure that supports the
weight and transfers the load to the underlying soil or rock.
      N.   “Freeboard” means a safety factor indicating the height above a
projected flood occurrence level to which a levy or floodwall is constructed.
      O.   “Frontage” means the lot line adjoining a public street as measured
along the street.
      P.   “Funeral home” means a building, or part thereof, used for human
funeral services. Such building may contain space and facilities for:
         (1)   Embalming and the performance of other services used in
preparation of the dead for burial;
         (2)   The performance of autopsies and other surgical procedures;
         (3)   The storage of caskets, urns, and other related funeral
supplies;
         (4)   The storage of funeral vehicles; and
         (5)   Facilities for cremation.
   Where a funeral home is permitted, a funeral chapel shall also be permitted.
   7.   Words beginning with “G.”
      A.   “Garage, private” means a building for the private use of the owner
or occupant of a principal building situated on the same lot of the principal
building for the storage of motor vehicles with no facilities for mechanical
service or repair of a commercial or public nature.
      B.   “Garage, public” means a building designed and used for the storage
of automotive vehicles operated as a business enterprise with a service charge
or fee being paid to the owner or operator for the parking or storage of
privately owned vehicles.
      C.   “Garage, repair” means any building, premises, or land in which or
upon which a business, service, or industry involving the maintenance,
servicing, repair, or painting of motor vehicles is conducted or rendered.
      D.   “Garage, storage” means any building or premises, used for housing
only, of motor-driven vehicles pursuant to previous arrangements and not to
transients, and at which automobile fuels and oils are not sold and motor-
driven vehicles are not equipped, repaired, hired, or sold.
      E.   “Gas, filling” or “service station” means any building or premises
used for the retail sale of liquefied petroleum products for the propulsion of
motor vehicles, and including such products as kerosene, fuel oil, gasoline,
diesel fuel, packaged naphtha, lubricants, tires, batteries, antifreeze, motor
vehicle accessories, and other items customarily associated with the sale of
such products. The rendering of accessory services is permitted including
automatic car wash for one vehicle at a time, and making of repairs to motor
vehicles except those of a major type. Repairs of a major type are defined to
be spray painting; body, fender, differential, axle, spring, and frame repairs;
major overhauling of engines requiring the removal of engine cylinder head or
crankcase pan; repairs to radiators requiring the removal thereof; or complete
recapping or retreading of tires.
      F.   “Grade” means the average of the finished ground level at the center
of all walls of a building. In case walls are parallel to and within five feet
of a sidewalk, alley, or other public way, the above ground level shall be
measured at the elevation of the sidewalk, alley, or public way.
      G.   “Greenhouse” means a building or accessory structure constructed
chiefly of glass or other translucent material, which is devoted to the
protection or cultivation of flowers or other tender plants.
      H.   “Group care facility” means a government licensed or approved
facility which provides resident services in a dwelling to more than eight
individuals, not including resident staff, but not exceeding 30 individuals.
These individuals are developmentally disabled, aged, or undergoing
rehabilitation; are in need of adult supervision; and are provided services in
accordance with their individual needs. Group care facilities shall not include
nursing homes.
   8.   Words beginning with “H.”
      A.   “Half-story” means a story with at least two of its opposite sides
situated in a sloping roof, the floor area of which does not exceed two-thirds
of the floor area of the floor immediately below it.
      B.   “Hazardous materials” means any substances or materials that, by
reason of their toxic, caustic, corrosive, abrasive, or otherwise injurious
properties may be detrimental or deleterious to the health of any person
handling or otherwise coming into contact with such material or substance.
      C.   “Health club” means an establishment providing physical fitness
facilities and services to the public for a fee, including, but not limited
to,: game courts, exercise equipment, exercise areas, running tracks, swimming
pools, physical fitness maintenance and weight control services and
instructors, locker rooms, saunas, and associated retail shop intended for
members of club only.
      D.   “Home occupation” means a business, profession, occupation, or trade
conducted for gain or support as an accessory use entirely within a dwelling,
or a structure, which is incidental and secondary to the use of such building
for dwelling purposes and which does not change the essential residential
character of such building.
      E.   “Homeowners” or “property owners association” means a formally
constituted non-profit association or corporation made up of the property
owners or residents of a definitive area; who collectively may take permanent
responsibility for costs and upkeep of commonly owned or designated community
property.
      F.   “Hospital” means an institution licensed by State law providing
health services primarily for human in-patient medical or surgical care for the
sick or injured and including related facilities such as laboratories, out-
patient departments, training facilities, central services facilities, and
staff offices that are an integral part of the facilities.
      G.   “Hotel” or “motel” means a building containing six or more guest
rooms in which lodging is provided and offered to the public on a temporary
basis for compensation, and which is open to transient guests, in contrast to a
boarding house or rooming house.
   9.   Words beginning with “I.”
      A.   “Inoperable vehicle” means any motor vehicle, recreational vehicle,
boat, trailer, or semi-trailer which lacks a current registration or component
part which renders the vehicle unfit for legal use.
      B.   “Insignias and flags” means insignias, flags, and emblems of the
United States, the State, County, municipal and other bodies of established
government, or flags which display the recognized symbol of a non-profit or
non-commercial organization.
   10.   Words beginning with “J.”
      A.   “Junk” means old, wrecked, inoperable, or discarded automobiles,
trucks, tractors, and other such vehicles and parts thereof, wagons and other
kinds of vehicles and parts thereof, scrap, used building materials, scrap
contractor’s equipment, tanks, cans, barrels, boxes, drums, piping, bottles,
glass, old iron, machinery, rags, paper excelsior, hair, mattresses, beds or
bedding, or any other kind of scrap or waste material which is stored, kept,
handled, or displayed for barter, resale, reuse, salvage, stripping, or trade.
      B.   “Junk yard” means any area where waste, discarded, or salvaged
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, baled or packed, disassembled or
handled, including the dismantling or “wrecking” of automobiles or other
vehicles or machinery, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards, and places or
yards for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel materials and
equipment; but not including areas where such uses are conducted entirely
within a completely enclosed building. The presence on any property of 10 or
more motor vehicles (as defined by Chapter 321 of the Code of Iowa) without
current registration which, for a period exceeding 30 days, have not been
capable of operating under their own power, or from which parts have been
removed for re-use, salvage, or sale, shall constitute prima facie evidence of
a junk yard.
   11.   Words beginning with “K.”
      A.   “Kennel” means any premises on which five or more dogs, six months
or older, are kept for board, breeding, or sales purposes.
   12.   Words beginning with “L.”
      A.   “Landfill” means a disposal site employing an engineering method of
disposing of solid wastes in a manner that minimizes environmental hazards by
spreading, compacting to the smallest volume, and applying cover material over
all exposed waste at the end of each operating day.
      B.   “Laundry, self-service” means a business that provides home-type
washing, drying, or ironing machines for hire to be used by customers on the
premises.
      C.   “Livestock” means animals kept, or raised for use or pleasure
including cattle, horses, sheep, goats, swine, mules, donkeys, llamas, and
similar hoofed animals excluding buffalo and elk.
      D.   “Loading space” means any off-street space or berth on the same lot
with a building or contiguous to a group of buildings, for the temporary
parking (less than 24 hours) for a commercial vehicle while loading or
unloading merchandise or materials.
      E.   “Lodging house” means a building where lodging only is provided for
compensation for four or more persons.
      F.   “Lot” means a parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet
minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage, and area and to provide such
yards and other open space as are herein required. Such lot shall have frontage
on a public road or approved private street and may consist of:
         (1)   A single lot of record;
         (2)   A portion of a lot of record;
         (3)   A combination of complete lots of record and portions of lots of
record, or of portions of lots of record; and
         (4)   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds, provided that,
in no case of division or combination, shall any residual lot or parcel be
created which does not meet the requirements of this Zoning Code.
      G.   “Lot lines” means the lines bounding a lot, including the right-of-
way line of any public road or highway acquired by easement.
      H.   “Lot of record” means a lot which is a part of a subdivision
recorded in the office of the County Recorder, or a lot or parcel described by
metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
      I.   “Lot width” means the width of a lot measured at the building line
and at right angles to its depth.
      J.   “Lot, corner” means a lot abutting upon two or more streets at their
intersection.
      K.   “Lot, depth of” means the mean horizontal distance between the front
and rear lot lines.
      L.   “Lot, double frontage” means a lot having a frontage on two non-
intersecting streets, as distinguished from a corner lot. Such lots shall
provide the required front yard depth on both street frontages.
      M.   “Lot, flag” means a lot with access provided to the bulk of the lot
by means of a narrow corridor which does not meet the minimum permitted lot
width requirements at the minimum setback distance from the public street.
      N.   “Lot, interior” means a lot other than a corner lot.
      O.   “Lot, reversed frontage” means a corner lot the side street line of
which is substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the first
platted lot to its rear.
      P.   “Lumber yard” means a premises on which primarily new lumber and
related building materials are sold.
   13.   Words beginning with “M.”
      A.   “Manufactured home” means a factory-built structure, which is built
under the authority of 42 U.S.C. Sec. 5403, is required by federal law to
display a seal from the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development and was constructed on or after June 15, 1976. If a manufactured
home is placed in a mobile home park, the home must be titled and is subject to
the mobile home square foot tax. If a manufactured home is placed outside a
mobile home park, the home must be titled and is to be assessed and taxed as
real estate.
      B.   “Marina” means a facility for storing, servicing, fueling, berthing,
and securing and launching of private pleasure watercraft that may include the
sale of fuel and incidental supplies for the boat owners, crews, and guests.
      C.   “Mini-warehouse” means a building or group of buildings, containing
varying sizes of individualized, compartmentalized, and controlled stalls or
lockers for the dead storage of customers’ goods or wares, excluding junk,
explosive, or flammable materials, and other noxious or dangerous materials.
      D.   “Mobile home” means a factory-built housing unit used for living,
sleeping, business, or storage purposes, having no foundation other than
wheels, blocks, skids, jacks, horses or skirtings, and which is, has been, or
reasonably may be equipped with wheels or other devices for transporting the
structure from place to place, whether by motive power or other means. All
properties as defined by Chapter 322 of the Code of Iowa “mobile homes” are
subject to inspections by the Department of Public Safety.
      E.   “Mobile home park” means any lot or portion of a lot upon which two
or more mobile homes, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located,
regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such accommodation.
      F.   “Modular home” means a factory-built structure which is manufactured
to be used as a place of human habitation, is constructed to comply with the
State Building Code for modular factory-built structures and must display the
seal issued by the State Building Code Commissioner. If a modular home is
placed in a mobile home park, the home is subject to the annual tax as required
by Section 435.22 of the Code of Iowa. If a modular home is placed outside a
mobile home park, the home shall be considered real property and is to be
assessed and taxed as real estate.
      G.   “Motel, auto court” means a building or group of attached or
detached buildings containing individual sleeping or living units for overnight
auto tourists, with garage attached or parking facilities conveniently located
to each such unit.
   14.   Words beginning with “N.”
      A.   “New construction” means those structures or development for which
the start of construction or installation commenced on or after the effective
date of this Zoning Code.
      B.   “Night club” means any place of business located within any building
or establishment, established and operated for the purpose of supplying
entertainment or music and a dance floor, and providing meals or refreshments
prepared for consumption on the premises.
      C.   “Nonconforming lot” means a lot which lawfully existed prior to the
adoption, revision, or amendment of this Zoning Code, but which fails by reason
of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the new district
regulation in which it is located.
      D.   “Nonconforming structure” means a building or structure existing at
the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Zoning Code which is
allowed to lawfully exist but does not comply with the terms of this chapter by
reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, setbacks, architecture,
or other characteristics of the structure or its location on the lot.
      E.   “Nonconforming use” means a lawful use of land or building that does
not comply with the use regulations for its zoning district, but which complied
with applicable regulations at the time the use was established.
      F.   “Non-profit institution” means a non-profit establishment maintained
and operated by a society, corporation, individual, foundation, or public
agency for the purpose of providing charitable, social, education, or similar
services to the public, groups, or individuals. Cooperative non-profit
associations, performing a service normally associated with retail sales or
trade such as cooperative groceries, granaries, equipment sales, etc., shall
not be considered a non-profit institution under this chapter.
      G.   “Nursing” or “convalescent home” means a building or structure
having accommodations and where care is provided for invalid, infirm, aged,
convalescent, or physically disabled, or injured persons; not including
mentally insane, mental deficiency or deterioration, inebriate, or contagious
cases.
   15.   Words beginning with “O.”
      A.   “Off premises” means the purpose is to advertise, identify or direct
attention to a profession, business, service, activity, product, campaign, or
attraction which is not carried on, sold, offered, or manufactured in or upon
the premises.
      B.   “Oscillating light” means light which is totally eclipsed at regular
intervals; the duration of light is always greater than the duration of
darkness (such as an electronic information display).
   16.   Words beginning with “P.”
      A.   “Parcel” or “tract” means an aliquot part of a section, a lot within
an official plat, or a government lot; said parcel must be contiguous in order
to be considered as one parcel for purposes of this chapter.
      B.   “Park” means any public or private land reserved for active and
passive recreation to include such facilities as playgrounds, swimming pools,
tennis courts, trails, shelters, and other similar uses associated with a
designed recreation area. The term park is not intended to include private or
public amusement parks, permanent carnivals, or similar type activities.
      C.   “Parking area, satellite” means off-street parking spaces located on
a separate lot not adjoining the principal use for which they are required or
associated with, whether in the same ownership as the property occupied by the
principal use or leased from a separate owner.
      D.   “Parking space” means an area on a lot or within a building intended
for the use of parking of a personal vehicle. This term is used interchangeably
with parking stall.
      E.   “Patron” means a customer who purchases a commodity or service.
      F.   “Place of business” means any vehicle, building, structure, yard,
area, lot, premises, or part thereof, or any other place in which or on which
one or more persons engage in gainful occupation.
      G.   “Planned unit development” (PUD) means any development in which the
proposed land use, transportation elements, population densities, building
arrangement, and types are set out in a unified, contiguous plan.
      H.   “Plant nursery” means any land used to raise trees, shrubs, flowers,
and other plants for transplanting.
      I.   “Porch, unenclosed” means a roofed projection which has no more than
50 percent of each outside wall area enclosed by a building or siding material
other than meshed screens.
      J.   “Poultry” means domesticated fowl valued for their meat or eggs and
kept or raised for use or pleasure including chickens, turkeys, ducks, geese,
guinea fowl, ostriches, emus, and similar fowl.
      K.   “Premises” means any lot, plot, parcel or tract of land, building or
buildings, structure or structures, used publicly or privately as a place of
business, dwelling, or meeting place.
      L.   “Principal building” means a building in which the principal use of
the lot on which the building is located is conducted.
      M.   “Principal use” means the main use of land or structures as
distinguished from an accessory use.
      N.   “Print shop” means a retail establishment that provides duplicating
services using photocopy, blueprint, and offset printing equipment, including
collating of booklets and reports.
      O.   “Public” means, when used as an adjective for a particular use such
as “public library” or “school, public;” a specific use that is under the
jurisdiction and maintenance of a governmental agency of the federal, State,
County, or City government which may be used by the general public.
      P.   “Public thoroughfare” means any right-of-way under the jurisdiction
and maintenance of the governmental agencies of the federal, State, or County
government, which may be used by the public in general, and which may or may
not serve as a frontage street to the abutting property.
   17.   Words beginning with “Q.”
      A.   “Quarter-quarter section” means the northeast, northwest, southwest,
or southeast quarter of a quarter section delineated by the United States
Government system of land survey, and which is approximately 40 acres in size.
   18.   Words beginning with “R.”
      A.   “Recreational vehicle” (RV) means a vehicle which is:
         (1)   Built on a single chassis;
         (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
         (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty vehicle; and
         (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
      B.   “Recreational vehicle park” or “RV park” means any parcel of land
upon which two or more recreational vehicle sites are located, established, or
maintained for occupancy by recreational vehicles of the general public as
temporary living quarters for recreation or vacation purposes.
      C.   “Recycling center” means a building in which used material is
separated and processed prior to shipment to others who will use those
materials to manufacture new products.
      D.   “Recycling collection point” means an incidental use that serves as
a neighborhood drop-off point for temporary storage of recoverable resources.
No processing of such items is allowed. This facility would generally be
located in a shopping center parking lot or in other public or quasi-public
areas, such as in churches and schools.
      E.   “Research laboratory” means a building or group of buildings in
which are located facilities for scientific research, investigation, testing,
or experimentation, but not facilities for the manufacture or sale of products
except as incidental to the main purpose of the laboratory.
      F.   “Residential” or “residence” means any lot, plot, parcel, tract,
area, or place of land, or any building used exclusively for family dwelling
purposes or intended to be used, including accessory uses specified herein.
      G.   “Restaurant” means an establishment that prepares and serves food
and beverages to persons for immediate consumption.
         (1)   “Carry-out” means a restaurant which prepares food or beverages
which are packaged and delivered to the patrons or are picked up at the
establishment by the customer; there is no consumption of food or beverages on
the premises by patrons.
         (2)   “Dine-in” means a restaurant where the patron consumes foods and
beverages while seated at tables or counters located on the premises.
         (3)   “Drive-in” means a restaurant that delivers prepared food or
beverages to patrons in motor vehicles, regardless of whether or not it also
serves prepared food or beverages to customers who are not in motor vehicles,
for consumption on or off the premises.
      H.   “Resubdivision” means any change in the shape or size of any lot,
tract, or parcel of land previously platted for the purpose, whether immediate
or future, of sale, rent, lease, building development, or other use. Any change
in the shape or size of any lot, tract, or parcel of land previously approved
for building purposes, whether immediate or future, and regardless of whether
or not the same is vacant or improved, in whole or in part, for sale, rent,
lease, building development, or other use.
      I.   “Right-of-way” means a strip of land occupied, or intended to be
occupied by a road, walkway, drainageway, railroad, electric transmission line,
oil or gas pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer, trail, or other
public use.
      J.   “Road, private” means a right-of-way open to vehicular ingress and
egress established as a separate tract for the common use and benefit of
certain, adjacent properties. This definition does not apply to individual
driveways.
   19.   Words beginning with “S.”
      A.   “Salvage dealer” means any person who buys, sells, transfers,
delivers, or stores junk, including all persons who carry on such businesses at
a shop, a salvage yard, or as a peddler, and any person who by advertisement,
sign, or otherwise holds themselves out as a salvage dealer, or dealer in old
or discarded metals, machinery, rags, paper stock, and the like.
      B.   “Salvage yard” means any place not fully enclosed within a building
where a salvage dealer, in connection with the salvage dealer business, stores
or deposits junk encompassing either:
         (1)   An area of 200 square feet or more, or
         (2)   Ten or more inoperable motor vehicles, or used parts and
materials thereof, which taken together equal the bulk of 10 or more motor
vehicles.
      C.   “School” means a facility that provides a curriculum of elementary
and secondary academic instruction, including kindergartens, elementary, junior
high, middle, and high schools.
      D.   “School, business training” means a school which specializes in
business, commercial, and industrial training courses and is operated for
commercial gain.
      E.   “Screening” means the method by which a view of one site from
another adjacent site is shielded, concealed, or hidden. Screening techniques
include fences, walls, hedges, berms, or other features. (See also “buffer
zone.”)
      F.   “Seating capacity” means the actual seating capacity of an area
based upon the number of seats or one seat per 18 inches of bench or pew
length.
      G.   “Setback” means the required minimum horizontal distance permitted
between the building line and the related front, side, or rear property line.
      H.   “Shipping container” means a metal sided container typically used
for multimodal shipping, not placed on a foundation. Shipping containers shall
also include portions or enclosures removed from a chassis and no longer with
wheels or axels like a semi-trailer box, panel truck enclosure, or box trailer.
      I.   “Shopping center” means a grouping of retail businesses and service
uses within a single master planned complex of one or more buildings with
common parking facilities, access, and open space.
      J.   “Sidewalk café” means an area which is part of and adjacent to and
directly in front of a street-level restaurant and located within the sidewalk
area of the public right-of-way used exclusively for dining, drinking, and
pedestrian circulation. The encroachment area of the sidewalk cafe may be
separated from the remainder of the sidewalk by railings, fencing, or
landscaping planter boxes, or a combination thereof, as required by the Board.
      K.   “Sign” means any device designed to inform or attract the attention
of persons not on the premises on which the sign is located; provided, however,
the following shall not be included in the application of the regulations
herein:
         (1)   Signs not exceeding one square foot in area and bearing only
property numbers, post box numbers, names of occupants of premises, or other
identification of premises not having commercial connotations;
         (2)   Flags and insignia of any government, except when displayed in
connection with commercial promotion;
         (3)   Legal notices; identification, informational or directional
signs erected or required by governmental bodies;
         (4)   Integral, decorative or architectural features of buildings,
except letters, trademarks, moving parts, or moving lights;
         (5)   Signs directing and guiding traffic and parking on private
property and bearing no advertising matter; not exceeding two square feet in
area.
      L.   “Sign area” means the surface area of a sign shall be computed as
including the entire area within a regular geometric form or combinations of
regular geometric forms comprising all of the display area of the sign and
including all of the elements of the matter displayed. Frames and structural
members not bearing advertising matter shall not be included in computation of
the surface area, except where such frames and structural members are used as
an integral primary or subsidiary portion of the graphic, literal, or numerical
display, such as forming a picture frame to facilitate continuity or providing
contrasts to emphasize the intended purpose of the sign.
      M.   “Sign, awning” means a sign painted on or incorporated into an
awning. The area of an awning sign shall be the area of the inscription or
message incorporated into the awning, provided the awning is not internally
illuminated. For an awning sign incorporated on an awning internally
illuminated, the area of the entire awning shall be considered the sign area.
      N.   “Sign, building” means a sign which is wholly supported by the
building wall, parallel to the plane thereof, and which does not extend beyond
the surface of said building wall more than 12 inches. A building sign may be
painted on, incorporated in, or affixed to the building wall, or any sign
consisting of cut-out letters or devices affixed to the building wall with no
background defined on the building wall.
      O.   “Sign, bulletin board” means a sign containing a surface area upon
which is displayed the name of a religious institution, charitable
organization, school, library, community center, or similar institution, and
the announcement of its services or activities.
      P.   “Sign, construction” means signs identifying the architects,
engineers, contractors, and other individuals involved in the construction of a
building and such signs announcing the character of the building enterprise or
the purpose for which the building is intended but not including product
advertising.
      Q.   “Sign, development identification” means a sign incorporated in or
on the face of a wall which is approved as part of a subdivision plat or Site
Plan and not a building sign.
      R.   “Sign, development off-premises” means signs identifying location or
direction to a specific development or facility that is located on-premises or
off-premises of the development or facility site.
      S.   “Sign, directory” means any sign that does not advertise a product
or place of business but exists solely to direct vehicular or pedestrian
traffic to a location of a business or part of a business.
      T.   “Sign, free standing” means free standing signs including pole and
ground signs, as regulated by this chapter, and includes any sign which is
supported by one or more uprights or braces in or upon the ground and not
attached to any building or wall.
      U.   “Sign, ground” or “monument” means an on-premises statuary,
memorial, or work of art or an on-premises free standing sign, other than a
pole sign, that is supported in or upon the ground with a supporting column
that has a perimeter which is not less than 50 percent of the sign perimeter.
      V.   “Sign, identification” means an on-premises sign that displays no
more than the name, address, crest or insignia, occupation, or profession of an
occupant of the premises, name of any building on the premises, or the
trademark of the occupant.
      W.   “Sign, illuminated” means any sign which has characters, letters,
figures, designs, or outline illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes
as-part of the sign proper.
      X.   “Sign, highway” means an on-premises pole sign which is constructed
to attract the attention of highway travelers and is located within 1,200 feet
of a State or County highway.
      Y.   “Sign, memorial” means signs or tablets, names of buildings, and
date of erection when engraved into any masonry surface or when constructed of
bronze or other incombustible materials. Memorial signs shall not contrast in
color from the material of which said sign is constructed.
      Z.   “Sign, obsolete” means signs that advertise an activity, business,
product, or service no longer conducted on the premises on which the sign is
located.
      AA.   “Sign, on-premises” means a sign the primary purpose of which is to
advertise, identify, or direct attention to a profession, business, service,
activity, product, campaign, or attraction which is carried on, sold, offered,
or manufactured in or upon the premises.
      BB.   “Sign, panel” means a message, inscription, or logo which is
painted or affixed to a panel of wood, plastic, cloth, fiberglass, or other
material, which is not part of the building’s exterior materials, is of greater
area than the message, inscription, or logo, and provides a background for the
message, inscription, or logo.
      CC.   “Sign, perimeter” means the external boundary of a sign at its
widest point per plain view.
      DD.   “Sign, pole” means an on-premises free standing sign that is
supported by one or more uprights not attached to, or braced by, any other
structure.
      EE.   “Sign, political campaign” means a sign, either on or off-premises,
announcing candidates seeking public political office in a forthcoming election
or signs announcing political issues, for or against, to be considered in a
forthcoming election.
      FF.   “Sign, portable” means a free-standing sign not permanently
anchored or secured to the ground or any building or wall.
      GG.   “Sign, projecting” means a sign, other than a wall sign, which
projects from and is supported by a wall of a building or structure.
      HH.   “Sign, public” means a sign of a non-commercial nature and in the
public interest, erected by or upon the order of a public officer in the
performance of public duty, such as safety signs, danger signs, trespassing
signs, traffic signs, memorial plaques, signs of historical interest, and all
other similar signs, including signs designating hospitals, libraries, schools,
airports, and other institutions or places of public interest or concern.
      II.   “Sign, real estate” means a sign advertising the sale, rental, or
lease of the premises, or part of the premises, on which the sign is displayed.
      JJ.   “Sign, roof” means a sign erected upon or above a roof or parapet
of a building.
      KK.   “Sign, service” means a sign identifying restrooms, public
telephone facilities, first aid stations, emergency shelters, and other similar
public service facilities.
      LL.   “Sign, temporary” means a sign not permanently attached to the
ground, wall, or building, and intended to be displayed for a short and limited
period of time.
      MM.   “Sign, vehicle” means a message, inscription, or logo painted,
attached, or incorporated on a motor vehicle which advertises or promotes the
interest of any private or public firm, person, organization, or other entity,
or to draw attention to the use on the premises.
      NN.   “Site improvements” include all improvements to a Site Plan in
addition to proposed buildings, and including, but not limited to, utilities,
stormwater management, parking, loading areas, landscaping, buffers, and free-
standing signs.
      OO.   “Site plan” means a plan, prepared to scale, showing accurately and
with complete dimensions the boundaries of a site and the location of all
buildings, structures, uses, and principal site development features, including
contours proposed for a specific parcel of land as required by these
regulations.
      PP.   “Site plan, temporary” means a plan, prepared to scale, showing the
location of buildings, proposed uses, parking stalls, access, and similar site
elements.
      QQ.   “Slope” means the change in ground elevation between two points.
      RR.   “Small wind energy conversion system” or “SWECS” means a wind
energy conversion system that has a rated capacity of up to 100 kilowatts and
that is incidental and subordinate to a permitted use on the same parcel. A
system is considered a SWECS only if it supplies electrical power solely for
on-site use, except that when a parcel on which the system is installed also
receives electrical power supplied by a utility company, excess electrical
power generated and not presently needed for on-site use may be used by the
utility company in accordance with Section 199, Chapter 15.11(5) of the Iowa
Administrative Code.
      SS.   “Small wireless facility” means a wireless facility that meets the
following requirements:
         (1)   Each antenna is no more than six cubic feet in volume; and
         (2)   All other equipment associated with the small wireless facility
is cumulatively no more than 28 cubic feet in volume.
For purposes of this definition, volume shall be measured by the external
displacement of the primary equipment enclosure, not the internal volume of
such enclosure. An associated electric meter, concealment, telecommunications
demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, battery backup power systems,
grounding equipment, power transfer switch, cutoff switch, cable, conduit, and
any equipment that is concealed from public view within or behind an existing
structure or concealment may be located outside of the primary equipment
enclosure and shall not be included in the calculation of the equipment volume.
Small wireless facility does not include any structure that supports or houses
equipment described in this definition.
      TT.   “Solar array” means a grouping of photovoltaic solar panels and any
necessary hardware used to assemble and connect them. This definition
encompasses all styles installation including, but not limited to, structure-
mounted, ground-mounted, or integrated as a mechanical or structural component
of a structure.
      UU.   “Solar energy system, private” means an energy system that uses one
or more solar arrays to convert energy for immediate on-site use or storage or
to be fed back to the electrical grid. Private solar energy systems are an
accessory use on the lot or parcel.
      VV.   “Solar energy system, utility scale” means an energy system,
commonly referred to as a solar farm, which uses one or more solar arrays to
convert energy for transmission through the electrical grid for off-site use or
wholesale or retail sale. Utility scale solar energy systems are the principal
use on the lot or parcel.
      WW.   “Special use” means use of land, water, or building which is
allowable only after the issuance of a Special Use Permit by the Board of
Adjustment under conditions specified in this chapter.
      XX.   “Stable, private” means an accessory building in which horses are
kept for private use and not for remuneration, hire, or sale.
      YY.   “Stable, public” means an accessory building in which horses are
kept for commercial use, including boarding, hire, instructions, and sale.
      ZZ.   “Stable, riding club” means a building or structure used or
intended to be used for the housing only of horses by a group of persons for
noncommercial purposes.
      AAA.   “Start of construction” means the actual start which occurs when
footings or structural support columns are installed or constructed. For a
factory-built home, actual start will occur when it is placed on a site or
foundation is constructed.
      BBB.   “Storage, outdoor” means the storage of items not wholly contained
within the walls and under the roof of a structure. Items stored within or
under carports, porches, and similar structures, whether said structures stand
alone or are attached to an enclosed structure, are considered as outdoor
storage.
      CCC.   “Story” means that portion of a building included between the
surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above, except that the
topmost story shall be that portion of a building included between the surface
of the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level
directly above a walkout basement is more than five feet above grade, such
basement shall be considered a story.
      DDD.   “Street” or “road line” means a dividing line between a lot,
tract, or parcel of land and a contiguous street or road.
      EEE.   “Street or road, public” means any thoroughfare or public way
which has been dedicated to the public or deeded to the County for street or
road purposes.
      FFF.   “Street or road, private” means any roadway providing access to
more than one parcel or land use, whether said parcels are under the same
ownership or different ownership, that has not been dedicated to the public or
deeded to the County for street or road purposes. No private street or road
shall be accepted by the County unless said street or road and associated
right-of-way conform to the requirements of Chapter 56.
      GGG.   “Structural alterations” means any replacement or changes in the
type of construction or in the supporting members of a building, such as
bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, or girders beyond ordinary repairs
and maintenance.
      HHH.   “Structural trim” means the molding, battens, capping, nailing
strips, lattice, and platforms which are attached to the sign structure.
      III.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected with a fixed
location on the ground or attached to something having a fixed location on the
ground. Among other things, structures include buildings, antenna, mobile
homes, billboards, poster panels, factories, sheds, cabins, factory-built
homes, satellite dish antenna, storage tanks, towers, and other similar uses.
      JJJ.   “Subdivision” means a division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land
into two or more lots, building plots or sites, or other subdivisions of land
for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, transfer for building
development, right-of-way dedication, or other use; provided, however, this
definition of a subdivision does not include divisions of land into aliquot 40
acres or more in size parcels of land for agricultural purposes.
      KKK.   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a
structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage
condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred.
      LLL.   “Substantial improvement” means any reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure before
the start of construction of the improvement. This includes structures which
have incurred substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a
structure to correct existing violations of State or local health, sanitary, or
safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code
enforcement officer, and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living
conditions.
      MMM.   “Subterranean home” means a home which has all but one wall
completely covered and landscaped with earth, including the roof.
   20.   Words beginning with “T.”
      A.   “Tent” means any structure or enclosure, the roof or one-half or
more of the sides of which are of silk, cotton, canvas, or any light material,
either attached to a building or structure, or unattached.
      B.   “Tourist cabin” means a small, single-family dwelling of simple
construction used as one of the units of a tourist park.
      C.   “Tourist park” means any lot or plot of real property upon which two
or more tourist cabins or two or more recreational vehicles, camp sites, travel
trailers, or any combination of tourist cabins, recreational vehicles, or camp
sites are located and maintained for seasonal temporary occupancy.
      D.   “Tower, guyed” means a tower that is supported, in whole or in part,
by guy wires and ground anchors.
      E.   “Tower, lattice” means a self-supporting tower with three or four
sides, open, steel framed structure used to support equipment.
      F.   “Tower, monopole” means a tower consisting of a single pole,
constructed without guy wires and ground anchors.
      G.   “Townhouse” means a dwelling unit which is attached horizontally,
and not vertically to one or more other dwelling units, wherein the land or lot
beneath each dwelling is individually owned by the owner of the dwelling. A
townhouse subdivision shall have common elements which are specified in or
determined under the rules and regulations set forth by recorded covenants.
Covenants for a townhouse subdivision shall establish the guidelines for
maintenance of common elements and permit free movement through common areas by
members of the homeowner’s association (council of co-owners) to assure access
to the structural exterior of each townhouse unit by the individual unit owner.
      H.   “Trail” means a walkway or bikeway designed with a paved surfaced
pathway for travel by means other than by motorized vehicles.
      I.   “Trash” means cuttings from vegetation, refuse, paper, bottles,
rags. (See also “junk.”)
      J.   “Travel trailer park” see “recreational vehicle park.”
      K.   “Travel trailer” see “recreation vehicle.”
      L.   “Truck stop” means a service station which is designed principally
for the servicing and temporary parking of trucks.
      M.   “Truck terminal” means land and buildings used as a relay station
for the transfer of a load from one vehicle to another or one party to another.
The terminal cannot be used for permanent or long-term storage. The terminal
facility may include storage areas for trucks, and buildings or areas for the
repair of trucks associated with the terminal.
   21.   Words beginning with “U.”
      A.   “Utility pole” means a pole or similar structure owned or utilized,
in whole or in part, by a public utility, municipality, wireless service
provider, or electric utility that is designed specifically for and used to
carry lines, cable, transmission equipment, or wires for telephone, wireless
service, cable television, or electricity service, or for lighting, the
vertical portion of support structures for traffic control signals or devices,
signage, information kiosks, or other similar functions.
   22.   Words beginning with “V.”
      A.   “Variance” means a modification of the specific regulations of this
chapter granted by resolution of the Board of Adjustment in accordance with the
terms of this chapter for the purpose of assuring that no property, because of
special circumstances and hardships applicable to it, shall be deprived of
privileges commonly enjoyed by other properties in the same vicinity and zoning
district.
      B.   “Vineyard” means the use of land for purposes of growing grapes and
other fruits, or vegetables and the necessary accessory uses for storing the
produce, but not including winery uses.
   23.   Words beginning with “W.”
      A.   “Warehouse” means a building used primarily for the storage of goods
and materials.
      B.   “Waterfront” means any site shall be considered as waterfront
premises providing any of its lot lines abut on or are contiguous to any body
of water, including a creek, canal, lake, river, or any other body of water,
natural or artificial, not including a swimming pool, whether said lot line is
front, rear, or side.
      C.   “Wind energy conversion system” or “WECS” means a wind turbine
electrical generating facility comprised of an aggregation of parts, including
the base, tower, generator, rotor, blades, supports, guy wires, and accessory
equipment such as power lines, transformers, and battery banks, in such
configuration as necessary to convert the kinetic energy of wind into
electrical energy. The energy may be used on-site or distributed into the
electrical grid.
      D.   “Wind turbine generator” means the component of a wind energy
conversion system that transforms mechanical energy from the wind into
electrical energy.
      E.   “Winery” means the production of wines from grapes or other fruits
and vegetables and including wholesale and retail sales, catering, restaurant,
banquet rooms, vineyard, or any combination thereof, and provided all necessary
permits and licenses have been approved.
   24.   Words beginning with “X.”
   25.   Words beginning with “Y.”
      A.   “Yard” means an open space on the same lot with a building,
unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from 30 inches above
the general ground level upward, except as otherwise provided herein. In
measuring a yard for the purpose of determining the depth of a front yard or
the depth of a rear yard, the least distance between the lot line, exclusive of
public or private right-of-way, and the main building shall be used. In
measuring a yard for the purpose of determining the width of a side yard, the
least distance between the lot line, exclusive of public or private right-of-
way, and the nearest permitted building shall be used.
      B.   “Yard, front” means a yard extending across the full width of the
lot and measured between the front lot line, exclusive of public or private
right-of-way, and the building or any projection thereof, other than the
projection of the usual steps or unenclosed porches, the narrow frontage on a
corner lot. In all cases, the front yard depth shall be measured from the
right-of-way line.
      C.   “Yard, rear” means a yard extending across the full width of the lot
measure between the rear lot line and the building, or any projections other
than steps, unenclosed balconies, or unenclosed porches. On corner lots the
rear yard shall be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has
its least dimension. On both corner lots and interior lots, the rear yard is
the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
      D.   “Yard, side” means a yard extending from the front yard to the rear
yard and measured between the side lot line and the nearest building.
      E.   “Yard, interior side” means any side yard that is not facing or
adjacent to a public or private street or right-of-way.
      F.   “Yard, street side” means a side yard on a corner lot that abuts a
public or private street or right-of-way.
   26.   Words beginning with “Z.”
      A.   “Zero lot line” means the location of a building on a lot in such a
manner that one or more of the building’s sides rests directly on a lot line.
      B.   “Zone” means any one of the classes of districts established by this
chapter which is designated by area upon the Official Zoning Map of Marion
County.
      C.   “Zoning Administrator” means the administrative officer designated
or appointed by the Board of Supervisors to administer and enforce the
regulations contained in this Zoning Code.
      D.   “Zoning Commission” means the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      E.   “Zoning Certificate” or “Building Permit” means a written statement
issued by the Zoning Administrator authorizing buildings, structures, or uses
consistent with the terms of this Zoning Code and for the purpose of carrying
out and enforcing its provisions.
55.06 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   The boundaries of districts are indicated upon the Official Zoning Map,
which map is made a part of the Zoning Code by reference hereto. The Official
Zoning Map and all the notations, references, and other matters shown thereon
shall be as much a part of the Zoning Code as if the notations, references, and
other matters set forth by said map were all fully described herein. The
Official Zoning Map shall be on file in the office of the Zoning Administrator
and shall bear the signature of the Chairman of the Board of Supervisors
attested by the County Auditor, under the certification that it is the Official
Zoning Map referred to herein. If, in accordance with the provisions of the
Zoning Code, changes are made in the district boundaries or other matter
portrayed on the Official Zoning Map, the ordinance number and date of said
change shall be recorded by the County Auditor on the Official Zoning Map. The
Board of Supervisors may, from time to time, adopt a new Official Zoning Map
which shall supersede the prior Official Zoning Map, in the event that the
Official Zoning Map becomes damaged or destroyed; or for purposes of clarity
due to a number of boundary changes, or to correct drafting errors or omissions
or to correspond to text amendments to the Zoning Regulations; provided,
however, any such adoption shall not have the effect of amending the original
Zoning Ordinance or any subsequent amendment thereof.
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances have been adopted amending the Official Zoning Map
described in Section
55.06 of this chapter and have not been included as a part of this Code but
have been specifically saved from repeal and are in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. DATE ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. DATE ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances have been adopted amending the Official Zoning Map
described in Section
55.06 of this chapter and have not been included as a part of this Code but
have been specifically saved from repeal and are in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO.               DATE ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. DATE ADOPTED
All Zoning Map Amendments adopted prior to the effective date of this Zoning
Ordinance.
2010-12                     6-28-10      2019-64       10-8-19
2010-13                     10-11-10     2020-65       4-28-20
2010-14                     11-8-10      2020-66       10-13-20
2010-15                     11-8-10      2020-67       11-24-20
2011-24                     10-24-11     2020-69       12-22-20
2011-25                     10-24-11     2021-01       2-9-21
2012-28                     10-8-12      2021-02       3-9-21
2012-29                     10-8-12      2021-03       4-13-21
2012-30                     11-13-12     2021-04       11-9-21
Updated Official Zoning Map
2013-32                     3-12-13      2021-05       11-9-21
2013-33                     3-12-13      2021-06       12-14-21
2013-34                     7-23-13      2022-01       4-26-22
2013-35                     10-8-13      2022-03       11-22-22
2013-36                     10-8-13      2023-1        4-25-23
2013-37                     11-12-13     2023-2        6-13-23
2014-39                     5-27-14      2023-3        6-13-23
2014-40                     11-25-14     2023-4        8-22-23
2015-41                     3-10-15      2023-5        7-11-23
2015-42                     4-14-15      2023-6        8-8-23
2015-43                     4-28-15      2023-7        8-22-23
2015-44                     10-13-15     2023-9        11-14-23
2015-45                     11-10-15     2024-1        5-14-24
2016-46                     6-28-16      2024-2        5-14-24
2016-47                     7-12-16      2024-3        5-14-24
2016-48                     9-13-16      2024-4        9-10-24
2016-49                     9-13-16      2025-1        1-11-25
2017-51                     5-23-17      2025-2        5-13-25
2017-52                     5-23-17      2025-3        5-13-25
Corrective 2017-52          6-27-17      2025-5        7-22-25
2017-54                     10-24-17     2025-7        8-26-25
2018-56                     2-13-18                    
2018-57                     4-24-18                    
2018-60                     12-26-18                   
2018-61                     2-12-19                    
2019-62                     7-9-19                     
2019-63                     9-10-19                    
 
55.07 VACATED STREETS.  
   Whenever any street, road, alley, or other public way is vacated by official
action as provided by law, the zoning districts adjoining the side of such
public way shall be automatically extended, depending on the side or sides to
which such lands revert, to include the right-of-way of the public way thus
vacated, which shall thenceforth be subject to all regulations of the extended
district or districts.
55.08 DISINCORPORATION.
   All territory which may hereafter become part of the unincorporated area of
the County, that is regulated by the Zoning Code, by the disincorporation of
any city, or any part thereof, shall automatically be classed as lying and
being in the Agricultural District (A-1) until such classification shall have
been changed by amendment to this Zoning Code, as provided by law.
55.09 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   In cases where the exact location of a district boundary is unclear as shown
on the Official Zoning Map in the office of the Zoning Administrator, the
following rules shall be used in determining the location of said district
boundary.
   1.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
   2.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall
be construed as following such lot lines.
   3.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits shall be
construed as following city limits.
   4.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks.
   5.   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed to
follow such shorelines, and in the event of change in the shoreline, shall be
construed as moving with the actual shoreline; boundaries indicated as
approximately following the centerlines of streams, rivers, canals, lakes, or
other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
   6.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following section lines, quarter
section lines, or quarter-quarter section lines shall be construed as following
such lines.
   7.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to, or extensions of features
indicated in Subsections 1 through 6 above shall be so construed. Distances not
specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map shall be determined by the
scale of the Map.
   8.   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the Official Zoning Map, or in other circumstances
not covered by Subsections 1 through 7 above, the Board of Adjustment shall
interpret the district boundaries.
55.10 APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set by this chapter within each district shall be minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or
land, and particularly, except as hereinafter provided:
   1.   No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied,
and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered unless in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is
located.
   2.   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered:
      A.   To exceed the height,
      B.   To accommodate or house a greater number of families,
      C.   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area, or
      D.   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, or
other open spaces than herein required; or in any other manner contrary to the
provisions of this chapter.
   3.   No part of a yard, or other open space, or off-street parking or
loading space required about or in connection with any building, for the
purpose of complying with this chapter shall be included as part of a yard,
open space, or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any
other building.
   4.   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of the Zoning Code shall
be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of the Zoning Code shall
meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
55.11 NONCONFORMING USES.
   1.   Intent. Within the districts established by the Zoning Code (or
amendments that may later be adopted), there exist lots, structures, and uses
of land and structures which were lawful before the Zoning Code was passed or
amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the
terms of the Zoning Code or future amendment. It is the intent of this chapter
to permit these nonconformities to continue until they are removed, but not to
encourage their survival. It is further the intent of this chapter that
nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, or used as
grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same
district. To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter should be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building
on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of
adoption or amendment of the Zoning Code and upon which actual building
construction has been diligently carried on. Actual construction is hereby
defined to include the placing of construction materials in permanent position
and fastened in a permanent manner; except that where demolition or removal of
an existing building has been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding,
such demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction, provided
that such work shall be diligently carried on until completion of the building
involved.
   2.   Nonconforming Lots of Record. In any district in which single-family
dwellings are permitted, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other
provisions of this chapter, a single-family dwelling and customary accessory
buildings may be erected on any single lot of record prior to the effective
date of this Code even though such lot fails to meet the requirements for area
or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the district provided the
following requirements are met:
      A.   The lot has a minimum of 40 feet of frontage on one street or a
recorded exclusive unobstructed private easement of access at least 20 feet
wide to a street that is used by or benefits no more than one single-family
dwelling.
      B.   The side yard widths of any such lot shall not be less than eight
feet.
      C.   The depth of the rear yard of any such lot need not exceed 20
percent of the depth of the lot, but in no case less than 15 feet.
      D.   The depth of the front yard of any such lot shall align with the
neighboring properties build-to line, but in no case shall the depth of the
front yard be less than 25 feet.
      E.   The lot has access to public water and public sewer or has space on
the property to accommodate private systems to comply with all of the
requirements and standards of County Department of Public Health.
   3.   Nonconforming Uses of Land. Where, at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of the Zoning Code, lawful use of land exists that is made no longer
permissible under the terms of the Zoning Code as enacted or amended, such use
may be continued subject to the following provisions:
      A.   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased or extended
to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of the Zoning Code.
      B.   No such nonconforming use shall be moved, in whole or in part, to
any other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of the Zoning Code.
      C.   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than one year, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to
the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which such land
is located.
   4.   Nonconforming Use of Structures. If a lawful use of a structure, or of
structure and premises in combination, exists at the effective date of adoption
or amendment of the Zoning Code that would not be allowed in the district under
the terms of this chapter, the lawful use may be continued subject to the
following provisions:
      A.   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter
in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, or structurally altered except in changing the use
of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is located.
      B.   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of
adoption or amendment of the Zoning Code, but no such use shall be extended to
occupy any land outside such building.
      C.   If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a
structure, or structure and premises, may be changed to another nonconforming
use of the same or of a more restricted classification.
      D.   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises
in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for two years, the structure, or
structure and premises in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in
conformance with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
      E.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises
in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land.
      F.   Any structure devoted to a use made nonconforming by the Zoning Code
that is destroyed by any means to an extent of 50 percent or more of its
replacement cost at the time of destruction, exclusive of the foundation, shall
not be reconstructed and used as before such happening. If the structure is
less than 50 percent destroyed above the foundation, it may be reconstructed
and used as before, provided it is done within one year of such happening, and
is built of like or similar materials.
      G.   For single-family detached residences constructed prior to January
1, 2017, within C-1, C-2, M-1, or M-2 Zoning District, the non-conforming
single-family use of the structure and premises is permitted to continue
provided said use is not discontinued or abandoned for a period of two years.
If so discontinued or abandoned, the structure and premises shall thereafter be
used only in conformance with the regulations of the district in which it is
located. Further, said non-conforming single-family structures may be enlarged,
extended, reconstructed, or structurally altered by up to 25 percent of the
square footage of the structure as it existed on January 1, 2017. In addition,
one two-car garage may be constructed on said premises without being considered
as part of said 25 percent expansion. Furthermore, said nonconforming single-
family dwelling or accessory garage may be reconstructed should it be destroyed
by any means, provided the size of the replacement dwelling does not exceed 125
percent of the square footage of the existing dwelling and the replacement
garage does not exceed 125 percent of the square footage of the existing garage
and provided that all required setbacks are met.
   5.   Nonconforming Structures. Where a structure exists at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of the Zoning Code that could not be built under
the terms of this chapter by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage,
height, yards, or other characteristics of the structure or its location on the
lot, such structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful,
subject to the following provisions:
      A.   No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which
increases its nonconformity.
      B.   Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of 50
percent or more of its replacement cost at the time of destruction, it shall
not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of the Zoning
Code.
   6.   Repairs and Maintenance. On any building devoted, in whole or in part,
to any nonconforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs, or on repair or
replacement of non-bearing walls, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing, provided the
cubic content of the building, as it existed at the time of passage or
amendment of the Zoning Code, shall not be increased. Nothing herein shall be
deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any
building, or part thereof, declared unsafe by any official charged with
protecting public safety, upon order of such official.
55.12 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS IN ALL DISTRICTS.
   On a corner lot in any zoning district, nothing shall be erected, placed,
planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner as materially to impede vision
between a height of two and a half and 10 feet above the centerline grades of
the intersecting streets in the area bounded by the street lines of such corner
lots and a line joining points along said street lines 25 feet from the point
of the intersection.
55.13 STREET FRONTAGE REQUIRED.
   No lot shall contain any building used, in whole or in part, for
residential, commercial, or industrial purposes, unless such lot abuts at least
one established public or private street with frontage on a road or highway
that is a part of the State primary or County secondary road system. Frontage
on a Level B road does not qualify for this road frontage requirement. The
minimum street frontage for each such lot shall be the minimum lot width as
required based on the zoning of the property, unless the lot is an approved
flag lot. Flag lots, when permitted, shall have at least 40 feet of frontage on
at least one street, and must be approved either by the Zoning Official via a
Plat of Survey or by the Board via a Plat of Subdivision. For lots established
after the effective date of this Code, access easements shall not be considered
acceptable frontage for building purposes. For agricultural purposes only,
access may be provided via a private easement at least 20 feet wide to a public
or private street. Private streets shall be established only via a Plat of
Subdivision and shall meet the subdivision regulations in accordance with
Chapter 56.
55.14 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Accessory structures shall not be permitted within any required front yard.
On corner lots or double frontage lots, accessory structures shall conform to
the required front yard setback regulations for all abutting streets. Accessory
structures shall not occupy more than 30 percent of the rear yar and shall not
exceed the maximum height permitted by the applicable zoning district
regulations and shall be built no less than 10 feet from a principal building
or any other accessory building; however, this regulation shall not be
interpreted to prohibit the construction of a 440 square foot garage on a
minimum rear yard.
55.15 CORNER LOTS.
   For corner lots, the front yard shall be considered as parallel to the
street upon which the lot has its least dimension, except where the owner shall
elect to front their building on the street parallel to the lot line having the
greater dimension. On double frontage lots, the front yard shall be the street
from which the lot is accessed and the rear yard setback on the opposite street
frontage. If the corner lot is part of a platted subdivision, the recorded
subdivision frontage requirements apply.
55.16 BUILDING LINES ON APPROVED PLATS.
   Whenever the plat of a land subdivision approved by the Board of Supervisors
and on record in the office of the County Recorder shows a building line along
any street for the purpose of creating a front yard or side street yard line,
the building line thus shown shall apply along such frontage in place of any
other yard line required in this chapter unless specific yard requirements in
this chapter require a greater setback.
55.17 ZONING DISTRICTS DIVIDING PROPERTY.
   Where one parcel of property is divided into two or more portions by reason
of different zoning district classifications, each of these portions shall be
used independently of the others in its respective zoning classification, and
for the purpose of applying the regulations of the Zoning Code, each portion
shall be considered as if in separate and different ownership. If there is
uncertainty that all portions of the parcel independently meet the regulations
for their respective districts, including applicable setbacks for existing
structures, the Zoning Administrator shall require a Plat of Survey or Plat of
Subdivision, as appropriate, to divide the parcel along all proposed zoning
district boundary lines in order to demonstrate all requirements are met.
55.18 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Subject to the limitations of this section, any home occupation that is
customarily incidental to the principal use of a building as a dwelling shall
be permitted in any dwelling unit. Any question of whether a particular use is
permitted as a home occupation, as provided herein, shall be determined by the
Zoning Administrator pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. The
regulations of this section are designed to protect and maintain the
residential character of established neighborhoods while recognizing that
certain professional and limited business activities have traditionally been
carried on in the home. This section recognizes that such activities can take
place in a residential structure without changing the character of either the
neighborhood or the structure. The following regulations apply to dwellings
located in all zoning districts.
   1.   Public Health and Safety. All home occupations shall register their
activity and location with the Zoning Administrator to ensure appropriate
public health and safety measures are in place for events requiring emergency
response.
   2.   Use Limitations. In addition to all of the use limitations applicable
to the district in which it is located, no home occupation shall be permitted
unless it complies with the following restrictions:
      A.   Home occupation shall be secondary to the use of the property as a
residence.
      B.   Home occupation shall be compatible with residential uses.
      C.   No alteration of the principal residential building shall be made
which changes the character and appearance thereof as a dwelling.
      D.   The home occupation shall be conducted within the principal dwelling
unit or in a permitted building accessory thereto.
      E.   The home occupation activities shall not be visible from an adjacent
property or street.
      F.   The home occupation shall not generate on-street parking or
substantial traffic through the residential area.
      G.   No more than one vehicle or piece of equipment shall be displayed
for sale on the property.
      H.   No mechanical, electrical, or other equipment which produces noise,
electrical, or magnetic interference, vibration, heat, glare, or other nuisance
outside the residential or accessory structure shall be used.
      I.   No home occupation shall be permitted which is noxious, offensive,
or hazardous by reason of vehicular traffic, generation or emission of noise,
vibration, smoke, dust, or other particulate matter, odorous matter, heat,
humidity, glare, refuse, radiation, or other objectionable emissions.
      J.   No sign, other than one unlighted sign not over four square feet in
area, attached flat against the dwelling.
55.19 PROHIBITED STORAGE OF MOTOR VEHICLES.  
   Outdoor storage of more than one inoperable vehicle is prohibited in any
residential, commercial, or industrial zoning district; or of more than three
inoperable vehicles is prohibited on parcels under 10 acres in size in any
agricultural zoning district; or of more than nine inoperable vehicles is
prohibited on parcels 10 acres or larger in size in any agricultural zoning
district. Motor vehicles held for sale by a licensed motor vehicle dealer at
said dealer’s place of business in a zoning district where motor vehicle sales
are permitted shall be exempt from the requirements of this section. With
approved screening, the Board of Adjustment may determine the number of motor
vehicles that can be stored outdoors provided the property owner has obtained
all necessary licenses from the State for vehicle recycling, salvaging, or
similar license.
55.20 SIGN REGULATIONS
   1.   Signs Permitted in All Zoning Districts. Signs hereinafter designated
are permitted in all zoning districts.
      A.   Temporary Signs.
         (1)   Real Estate Signs. Signs advertising the sale, rental, or lease
of the premises, or part of the premises, on which the signs are displayed. One
non-illuminated sign, not to exceed eight square feet, shall be permitted on
each premises in all districts except the A-1 District which shall be permitted
to have a non-illuminated sign not to exceed 50 square feet. Such signs shall
not extend higher than four feet above grade level or be closer than 10 feet to
any property line unless located on the wall of a building. Such signs shall be
removed within seven days after the disposition of the premises.
         (2)   Construction Signs. Signs identifying the architect, engineer,
contractor, or other individuals involved in the construction of a building and
such signs announcing the character of the building enterprise or the purpose
for which the building is intended, but not including product advertising. One
non-illuminated sign not to exceed 50 square feet shall be permitted per street
frontage. Such sign shall not extend higher than 10 feet above grade level or
be closer than 10 feet to any property line unless located on the wall of a
building on the premises or on a protective barricade surrounding the
construction. Such signs shall be removed within one week following completion
of construction.
         (3)   Political Campaign Signs. Signs announcing candidates seeking
public political office or pertinent political issues. Such signs shall be
confined to private property.
         (4)   Street Banners. Signs advertising a public event providing that
specific approval is granted under regulations established by the Board of
Supervisors.
         (5)   Seasonal Decorations. Signs pertaining to recognized national
holidays and national observances.
      B.   Directory Signs. Signs without names or logos, existing solely to
direct vehicle or pedestrian traffic to a business location, provided signs are
no larger than eight square feet per face, no taller than three feet tall, and
at least five feet from public right-of-way. Directory signs shall be on-
premises signs, with no more than five such signs per property.
      C.   Public Signs. Signs of a non-commercial nature and in the public
interest, erected by or upon the order of a public officer in the performance
of public duty, such as safety signs, danger signs, trespassing signs, traffic
signs, memorial plaques, signs of historical interest and other similar signs,
including signs designating hospitals, libraries, schools, and other
institutions or places of public interest or concern.
      D.   Integral Signs. Signs for churches or temples, or names of
buildings, dates of erection, monumental citations, commemorative tablets and
other similar signs when carved into stone, concrete, or other building
material or made of bronze, aluminum, or other permanent type of construction
and made an integral part of the structure to which they are attached. Integral
signs shall not use color to increase visibility from the public right-of-way.
      E.   Window Signs. Such signs which are displayed inside of a window or
within a building, provided however, that lighted window signs shall be
permitted only in those districts where lighted signs are permitted.
   2.   Signs Permitted Based on Zoning. Signs hereinafter designated shall be
permitted only in the designated zoning district, with size and height
restrictions specified for each district.
SIGNS PERMITTED BASED ON ZONING
                                                                                                                                                                        Highway
                                                                                                                                                                        High Rise 
                                                                                                                                                                        75 ft. of
         Building                                             Freestanding                                         Development Identification                           the
         Setback is ½ the distance of the Zoning District    Setback is ½ the distance of the Zoning District    Setback is ½ the distance of the Zoning District    property
         Setback                                              Setback                                              Setback                                              line (does
District                                                                                                                                                                not include
                                                                                                                                                                        right-of-
                                                                                                                                                                        way)
         Max.                                                 Max.                                                 Max.                                                 Max. Max.
         Area Max. Height                                     Area Max. Height                                     Area Max. Height                                     Area Height
         (sf/ (ft)                                            (sf) (ft)                                            (sf) (ft)                                            (sf) (ft)
         lf)
SIGNS PERMITTED BASED ON ZONING
                                                                                                                                                                        Highway
                                                                                                                                                                        High Rise 
                                                                                                                                                                        75 ft. of
         Building                                             Freestanding                                         Development Identification                           the
         Setback is ½ the distance of the Zoning District    Setback is ½ the distance of the Zoning District    Setback is ½ the distance of the Zoning District    property
         Setback                                              Setback                                              Setback                                              line (does
District                                                                                                                                                                not include
                                                                                                                                                                        right-of-
                                                                                                                                                                        way)
         Max.                                                 Max.                                                 Max.                                                 Max. Max.
         Area Max. Height                                     Area Max. Height                                     Area Max. Height                                     Area Height
         (sf/ (ft)                                            (sf) (ft)                                            (sf) (ft)                                            (sf) (ft)
         lf)
A-1                                                           10   12
C-A      2    10                                              50   25                                                                                                   750  50
A-R
R-1, R-                                                                                                            50   12
2, R-3
R-4                                                                                                                50   12
C-1      2    10                                              50   25                                                                                                   750  50
C-2      2    15                                              200  30                                                                                                   750  50
M-1 and  2    15                                              200  30                                                                                                   750  50
M- 2
*Setback defined as one-half the distance from the front property line of the applicable zoning district. Highway high rise signs’ setback shall be 75 feet from the front property
line.
 
   A.   Building Signs. Building signs include building signs, awning signs,
identification signs, projecting signs not prohibited herein, and roof signs
not prohibited herein. Maximum building sign area shall be based on linear feet
of building frontage being occupied by the premises. Building signs shall be
situated on building walls facing the street. In no case shall building signs
be visible from an adjacent residential district; building signs shall not be
located on a wall facing an adjacent Residential district, projecting signs
shall not be permitted on buildings adjoining residential district. However,
building signs shall be permitted across the street from residential districts.
      B.   Freestanding Signs. Freestanding signs include pole signs, ground
signs, monument signs, and identification signs. Freestanding signs do not
include highway high rise signs. Freestanding signs shall not be located in any
side or rear yards adjacent to residential districts. The maximum freestanding
sign area shall be per face, with a maximum of two faces per sign. Pole signs
shall not be less than 12 feet above the sidewalk or 10 feet above the surface
of the ground on which it is erected. Ground signs shall not be more than 10
feet tall. Freestanding sign faces shall be no more than nine feet wide or
tall.
      C.   Highway High Rise Signs. Highway high rise signs shall not be
permitted in any residential district. Such signs shall be situated no more
than 1,200 feet from the centerline of a State or County highway and no closer
than 500 feet from the nearest other highway freestanding sign. The maximum
highway freestanding sign shall be per face, with a maximum of two faces per
sign.
      D.   Development Identification Signs. Development identification signs
include development identification signs and development off-premises signs,
provided such off-premises signs do not exceed 32 square feet in area.
      E.   Miscellaneous Signs. Miscellaneous signs shall be a type of sign
that is permitted in all zoning districts. Such signs must not be temporary
signs nor prohibited signs as defined by this Zoning Code. Miscellaneous signs
shall only be placed in front yards and cannot be larger than 10 square feet in
area and cannot be higher than 12 feet above the ground. Miscellaneous signs
may be free standing or affixed to a structure or fence. Miscellaneous signs do
not include building signs, highway high rise signs, development identification
signs, or any other sign defined by this Zoning Code.
   3.   Prohibited Signs. Signs hereinafter designated shall be prohibited in
all zoning districts.
      A.   Obsolete Signs. Signs that advertise an activity, business, product,
or service no longer conducted on the premises on which the sign is located.
      B.   Banners, Balloons, Posters, etc. Signs which contain or consist of
banners, balloons, posters, pennants, ribbons, streamers, spinners, or other
similarly moving devices, except as specifically provided herein. These
devices, when not part of any sign, are also prohibited.
      C.   Off-Premises Signs on Public Property. Off-premises signs located on
public property.
      D.   Flashing Signs. No flashing, blinking, or rotation lights shall be
permitted for either permanent or temporary signs.
      E.   Moving Signs. No sign shall be permitted, any part of which moves by
any mechanical or electronic means.
      F.   Painted Wall Signs. Off-premises signs painted on building walls.
   4.   General Sign Regulations.
      A.   Conformance Required. Except as may be hereinafter specified, no
sign shall be erected, placed, maintained, converted, enlarged, reconstructed,
or structurally altered which does not comply with all of the regulations
established by this chapter.
      B.   Maintenance. All signs shall be maintained in a good state of
repair, including, but not limited to, the structural components, the lighting,
if any, the portion attaching the sign to the ground or structure, and the
surface features.
      C.   Nonconforming Signs. Where a sign exists at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of the Zoning Code that could not be built under the
terms of this chapter by reason of restrictions on area, use, height, setback,
or other characteristics of the sign or its location on the lot, such sign may
be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions:
         (1)   No such sign may be enlarged or altered in a way which increases
its nonconformity; however, reasonable repairs and alterations may be
permitted.
         (2)   Should such sign be destroyed by any means to an extent of 50
percent or more of its replacement cost at time of destruction, it shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
      D.   Permit Required. A sign permit, approved by the Zoning
Administrator, shall be required before the erection, construction, alteration,
placing, or locating of all signs conforming with this chapter.
      E.   Permit Not Required. A permit shall not be required for temporary
signs, repainting without changing permanent wording, composition, or colors;
or for non-structural repairs.
      F.   Plans. A copy of plans and specifications shall be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator for each sign regulated by this chapter. Such plans shall
show sufficient details about size of the sign, location, and materials to be
used and such other data as may be required for the Zoning Administrator to
determine compliance with this chapter.
      G.   Appeal. Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the
Zoning Administrator to approve or disapprove a sign permit, as provided by
this chapter, may appeal such decision to the Board of Adjustment as provided
in this chapter.
55.21 OFF-STREET LOADING SPACES REQUIRED.
   In any district in connection with every building, or part thereof,
hereafter erected, having a gross floor area of 10,000 square feet or more,
which is to be occupied by manufacturing, storage, warehouse, goods display,
retail store, wholesale store, market, hotel, hospital, mortuary, laundry, dry
cleaning, or other uses similarly requiring the receipt or distribution by
vehicles of material or merchandise, there shall be provided and maintained on
the same lot with such building at least one off-street loading space, plus one
additional such loading space for each 20,000 square feet, or major fraction
thereof, of gross floor area so used in excess of 10,000 square feet. Each
loading space shall be not less than 12 feet in width and 40 feet in length.
Such space may occupy all or any part of any required yard or open space,
except where adjoining an R district, it shall be set back at least 20 feet and
effectively screen planted.
55.22 OFF-STREET PARKING AREA REQUIRED.
   1.   In all districts, in connection with every industrial, commercial
business, trade, institutional, recreational, or dwelling use, and similar
uses, spaces for parking and storage of vehicles shall be provided in
accordance with the following schedule. Required off-street parking facilities
shall be primarily for the parking of private passenger automobiles of
occupants, patrons, or employees of the principal use served. All parking lots,
whether paved or unpaved, shall provide the required number of paved handicap-
accessible parking stalls with paved aisle and sidewalks to the building, in
conformance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Standards for
Accessible Design.
      A.   Automobile sales and service garages – One space per 400 square feet
of gross floor area.
      B.   Banks, business, and professional offices – One space per 200 square
feet of gross floor area.
      C.   Bowling alleys – Five spaces for each alley.
      D.   Churches and schools – One space for each five seats in a principal
auditorium. Where no auditorium is involved, one space for each staff member.
      E.   Dance halls, assembly halls, events centers, banquet rooms, party
barns – One space per 100 square feet of floor area used for dancing or
assembly.
      F.   Dwellings – Two parking spaces for each family or dwelling unit;
including mobile homes located within or outside a mobile home park.
      G.   Funeral homes, mortuaries – One parking space for each five seats in
the principal auditorium.
      H.   Furniture and appliance stores – One space per 400 square feet of
floor area used for display.
      I.   Hospitals – One space for each four beds, plus one space for each
three employees, plus one space for each two staff doctors.
      J.   Hotels, motels, lodging houses – One space for each bedroom.
      K.   Manufacturing plants – One space for each three employees on the
maximum working shift.
      L.   Restaurants, wine-tasting rooms, taverns, and night clubs – One
space per 100 square feet of gross floor area.
      M.   Retail stores, shops, supermarkets, etc., over 2,000 square feet in
floor area – One space per 100 square feet of gross floor area.
      N.   Retail stores, shops, supermarkets, etc., under 2,000 square feet of
floor area – One space per 200 square feet of gross floor area.
      O.   Sports arenas, auditoriums, other than in schools – One parking
space for each five seats.
      P.   Theaters, assembly halls with fixed seats – One parking space for
each five seats.
      Q.   Wholesale establishments or warehouses – One space for each two
employees, with a minimum of one space per 5,000 square feet of gross floor
area.
   2.   In the case of any building, structure, or premises, the use of which
is not specifically mentioned herein, provisions for a use which is so
mentioned, and to which said use is similar, as determined by the Zoning
Administrator, shall apply.
   3.   Where a lot does not abut on a public or private street, road, alley,
or easement of access, there shall be provided an access drive of not less than
10 feet in width in the case of a dwelling, and not less than 20 feet in width
in all other cases, leading to the loading or unloading spaces and parking or
storage areas required hereunder in such manner as to secure the most
appropriate development of the property in question. Except where provided in
connection with a use permitted in a residence district, such easement of
access or access drive shall not be located in any residence district.
   4.   Every parcel of land hereafter used as a public or private parking
area, for all uses other than single-family and two-family residential, shall
be developed and maintained in accordance with the following requirements.
      A.   No part of any parking space shall be closer than five feet to any
established highway, street right-of-way, or alley line. In case the parking
lot or driveway adjoins a Residential district, it shall be set back at least
25 feet from the Residential district boundary and shall be effectively screen-
planted.
      B.   Any off-street parking area having access from a paved public street
or highway shall have a paved approach within the public right-of-way. The
pavement materials for the approach, size, and location of any required
culverts, and the location for all driveway approaches shall be in accordance
with SUDAS and approved by the County Road Department.
      C.   Any lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking area,
including any commercial parking lot, shall be so arranged as to reflect the
light away from adjoining premises in any Residential district and public
rights-of-way.
   5.   Off-street parking areas shall be provided on the same lot with the
principal use. Off-street parking and loading areas may occupy all or part of
any required yard or open space, subject to the provisions of this section,
except that no required off-street parking or loading areas shall be located in
any required front yard in an agricultural or residential district.
55.23 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.  
   The provisions of this chapter are applicable to:
   1.   In order to carry out the purpose and intent of the Zoning Code, the
unincorporated area of the County, with the exception of that land located
within one mile of the corporate limits of the City of Pella delineated as
“Subarea A” on the Official Zoning Map of Marion County, pursuant to a 28E
Agreement adopted by the County and the City of Pella as set out in Subsection
2 below, is hereby divided into 11 zoning district classifications as follows:
      A.   Base Zoning Districts:
         (1)   Agricultural Districts:
            a.   Agricultural District (A-1).
            b.   Commercial-Agriculture District (C-A).
            c.   Agricultural Residential District (A-R).
         (2)   Residential Districts:
            a.   Single-Family Residential District (R-1).
            b.   Single-Family and Two-Family Residential District (R-2).
            c.   Multiple-Family Residential District (R-3).
            d.   Mobile Home Park Residential District (R-4).
         (3)   Commercial Districts:
            a.   General Commercial District (C-1).
            b.   Highway Commercial District (C-2).
         (4)   Industrial Districts:
            a.   Light Industrial District (M-1).
            b.   Heavy Industrial District (M-2).
      B.   Overlay Zoning Districts:
         (1)   Special and Overlay Districts:
            a.   Floodplain Zone (FP).
            b.   Airport Height Limitation Zone (AHL).
   2.   Pursuant to Section 414.23 of the Code of Iowa, and an agreement in
accordance with Chapter 28E of the Code of Iowa, between County and the City of
Pella, that unincorporated County land located within one mile of the corporate
limits of the City of Pella delineated as “Subarea A,” on the Official Zoning
Map, is under the exclusive zoning jurisdiction of the City of Pella and not
part of this chapter.
55.24 AGRICULTURAL ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS (A-1, C-A, AND A-R). 
   Agricultural Districts are intended and designed to preserve the
agricultural resources of the County, including agriculturally related
services, and protect agricultural land from encroachment of non-agricultural
uses and activities.
   1.   Agricultural Districts.
      A.   Agricultural District (A-1). The A-1 District is intended to provide
and preserve the agricultural and rural use of land, while accommodating very
low-density residential development generally associated with agricultural
uses.
      B.   Commercial Agricultural District (C-A). The C-A District is intended
to provide for those agriculturally related service uses unique to and
interrelated to the A-1 District. Areas designated as a C-A District are to be
dispersed through the A-1 District.
      C.   Agricultural Residential District (A-R); also known as “Ag
Residential District”. The A-R District is intended to provide for and
accommodate low-density Agricultural Residential development and acreages.
Areas designated as an A-R District areas are to be dispersed through the A-
1 District.
   2.   Principal Permitted Uses. Only the following uses of structures or land
shall be permitted in the agricultural districts.
PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES A-1 C-A A-R
PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES                                                       A-1 C-A A-R
Agriculture – Animal production, including raising and breeding of
domesticated animals such as poultry and livestock, but not including feed     P   P   P
lots, poultry farms, or hog confinement facilities.
Agriculture – Animal production feed lots, poultry farms, or hog confinement PR  PR  PR
facilities.
Agriculture – Crop production for growing of the usual farm products such as
vegetables, fruits (including vineyards), trees, and hay; and grain storage    P   P   P
and grain drying facilities, provided such storage is secondary to that of the
principal normal farming operation.
Agriculture – Agricultural Experience: Includes any agriculture-related
activity, as a secondary use in conjunction with agricultural production, on a
farm which activity is open to the public with the intended purpose of         P   P    
promoting or educating the public about agriculture, agricultural practices,
agricultural activities, or agricultural products.
Agriculture – Storage and repair facilities of custom hire machinery,
equipment and supplies incidental to farming including tillage equipment,         P    
chemical application equipment (ground types only) and similar uses.
Agriculture – Custom cleaning and grain drying facilities                       SUP  
Agriculture – Farm equipment repair such as blacksmith, welding, mechanical     P    
repair, and related services.
Agriculture – Kennels for the raising, breeding, and boarding of dogs or othePR      
small, domesticated animals.
Agriculture – Exotic animal husbandry such as mink farms or wildlife parks.  SUP     
Agriculture – Nurseries, greenhouses, and truck gardens.                     P      P
Agriculture – Tiling contractor storage and repair facilities, including     P   P    
incidental supplies and equipment.
Agriculture – Sale barns, with restrictions.                                    SUP  
Agriculture – Sales of cheese, milk, ice cream, and similar products primaril   P    
produced on-site, including processing of same.
Agriculture – Sales of feed, seed, fertilizer, and agricultural chemicals,      P    
except ammonia.
Agriculture – Storage and pumping facilities for anhydrous ammonia.             SUP  
Agriculture – Veterinary clinics.                                               PR   
Agriculture – Wineries including accessory uses such as wine sales, banquet
rooms, catering and food sales, vineyards, and no more than one accessory         P    
residential dwelling
Cemeteries, including mausoleums                                               PR      
Churches, chapels, temples, and similar places of worship, including parish    P      P
house and Sunday school building.
Dwellings – Single-family (non-farm).                                        P      P
Dwellings – Duplex, two-family                                               P       
Education – Elementary and secondary schools, public and private.            P      P
Education – Colleges and universities, public or private, including offices  P      P
and dormitories.
Mining – Mining and extraction of minerals and raw materials, including sand SUP     
and gravel pits, with restrictions.
Parks – Forests and wildlife preserves.                                      P      P
Parks – Public parks, playgrounds, golf course, and recreation areas.        SUP    SUP
Public – Any public building erected and used by any department of the       SUP     
township, County, State, or federal government.
Recreation – Riding Stables, public or private.                              P       
Recreation – Gun clubs, skeet-shooting ranges, and similar uses.             SUP     
Recreation – Campgrounds, private campgrounds with permanent infrastructure, SUP     
and tourist parks.
Recreation – Automobile racetracks, drag strips, and snowmobile tracks.      SUP     
Recreation – Private parks and recreational areas, including country clubs,
swimming pools, golf courses, and ballfields; but excluding miniature golf     SUP    SUP
courses, drive-in theaters, and similar commercial uses.
Recreation – Public and private events centers, banquet halls, party barns,     PR/  
cabins. More than three cabins require a SUP.                                      SUP
Storage – Mini-warehouse facilities                                             PR   
Temporary Enterprises – Involving large assemblages of people or automobiles
including, but not limited to, carnivals, circuses, rodeos, show rings, music  SUP     
festivals, sporting events, farm machinery auctions, and related auctions.
Temporary Enterprises, Small Scale – Involving smaller assemblages of people
or automobiles including, but not limited to, campgrounds and food venders     PR      
intended to serve attendees of large events such as Knoxville Nationals or
RAGBRAI.
Transportation – Airstrips and airports, public or private.                 SUP     
Utilities – Utility pole-mounted small wireless facility                     PR  PR  PR
Utilities – Water supply and sewage treatment facilities, public or private. SUP    SUP
Utilities – Electrical and natural gas transmission, regulating and storage  SUP    SUP
facilities.
Utilities – Electrical substations, telephone exchanges, sanitary sewer lift SUP P   SUP
stations, lagoons, well water treatment facilities, and gas
Utilities – Microwave, radio, television, and cellular telephone communicatioSUP P   PR
towers.
Utilities – Sanitary landfills, solid waste disposal facilities, and yard    SUP     
waste composting facilities, both public and private.
Utilities – Utility Scale Solar Energy System                                   PR   
Other retail business or service establishments determined by the Zoning          P    
Administrator to be equivalent to other permitted uses.
Key:
P = Permitted Use
PR = Permitted Use With Restrictions
SUP = Special Use Permit required
Blank = Use Not Permitted
 
   3.   Restrictions for Principal Permitted Uses. The following restrictions
shall apply to the appropriate permitted uses in agricultural zoning districts:
      A.   Animal Production Feed Lots. All feed lots, poultry farms, and hog
confinement facilities are permitted, provided that all hog confinement
facilities, feed lots, and poultry farms meet all of the waste treatment
requirements of the Iowa Department of Natural Resources and obtain the
necessary permits, where applicable, in conformance with the Code of Iowa, and
a copy of the IDNR Permit is provided to the Zoning Administrator prior to
construction of said facilities.
      B.   Cemeteries and Mausoleums. All buildings shall be at least 200 feet
from adjacent property lines
      C.   Exotic Animal Husbandry. Exotic animal husbandry uses shall be in
compliance with all State laws governing such uses, including regulations
regarding dangerous animals and permit requirements.
      D.   Kennels. All buildings, including exercise runways, are at least 200
feet from all property lines.
      E.   Veterinary Clinics. All buildings, including any livestock holding
facilities, are at least 200 feet from “R” residential districts and 100 feet
away from any A-1 or A-R District boundary.
      F.   Mining and Extraction of Minerals, Including Sand and Gravel Pits.
All operations are subject to the approval of the IDNR, including plans for
final site treatment of any such operation located in or on the floodplain of
any river or stream.
      G.   Sale Barns. All buildings, including any livestock holding
facilities, are at least 400 feet from residential district boundary lines.
      H.   Storage. Mini-warehouse facilities are only permitted in C-
A District when the following are met:
         (1)   The storage is indoor.
         (2)   The mini-warehouse building is an accessory structure. (No
stand-alone mini-warehouses are permitted.)
      I.   Small Wireless Facility Utility Pole Height Limitations. New,
replacement, or modified utility pole or wireless support structure shall not
exceed the greater of 10 feet in height above the tallest utility pole
existing, located within 500 feet of the new, replacement, or modified utility
pole, or 40 feet in height above ground level.
      J.   Microwave, Radio, Television, and Cellular Telephone Communication
Towers, but Not Utility Poles. All towers must have a fall zone. The minimum
distance from the base of any new ground-mounted communication tower to public
right-of-way or any property line shall be:
         (1)   A distance equal to at least 75 percent of the height of the
tower from any adjoining property line.
         (2)   A distance equal to at least 100 feet or 100 percent of the
height in the tower, whichever is greater, from any residential zoned district
or residential use property line.
      K.   Temporary Enterprises, Small Scale. All small-scale temporary
enterprises shall be required to obtain an approved permit for a temporary Site
Plan in conformance with Section 55.31 from the Zoning Administrator prior to
commencing operations.
      L.   Events Centers, Banquet Halls, and Party Barns. On-site parking
shall be provided for the maximum event, parking shall not be permitted on
public or private streets. All buildings shall comply with all applicable fire
codes, including number and location of exits.
      M.   Utility Scale Solar Energy Systems. Solar arrays installed as a
utility scale solar energy system and as the principal use shall conform to all
height, setback, and other requirements of the district. The following
additional standards apply to all solar arrays as a principal use:
         (1)   Prohibited. Concentrating Solar Power (CSP) systems shall be
prohibited.
         (2)   Site Plan. A Site Plan shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator demonstrating compliance with:
            a.   Setback and height limitations as established in the
underlying zoning district.
            b.   Applicable zoning district requirements.
            c.   Applicable solar requirements per this section.
         (3)   Compliance. Solar arrays installed as utility-scale solar energy
system installations shall comply with applicable local, State, and federal
regulations.
         (4)   Installation. System shall be installed according to
manufacturers’ recommendations and industry best practices.
         (5)   Solar Glare. All solar arrays shall incorporate antiglare
measures into the system or installation shall be placed in areas so that the
solar glare shall not be directed onto residential properties or public rights-
of-way.
         (6)   Design. The design of the solar panel arrays shall use
materials, colors, textures, screening, and landscaping similar to their
background or the existing natural environment to the most reasonable extent
possible without prohibiting the installation.
         (7)   Fencing. A security fence must be installed along all exterior
sides of the utility-scale solar array installation and be equipped with a
minimum of one gate and locking mechanism on the primary access side. Security
fences, gates, and warning signs must be maintained in good condition until the
installation is dismantled and removed from the site according to the
decommissioning plan as established in Subparagraph 10, below; and
         (8)   Screening. The site shall be constructed with natural screening
when abutting all public rights-of-way and residential properties.
         (9)   Avoidance and Mitigation of Damages to Public Infrastructure.
            a.   Roads. Applicants shall identify all roads to be used for the
purpose of transporting solar array components, substation parts, cement, or
equipment for construction, operation, or maintenance of the solar arrays and
obtain applicable weight and size permits from the impacted road authority
prior to construction.
            b.   Existing Road Conditions. The applicant shall conduct a
preconstruction survey, in coordination with the impacted local road authority
to determine existing road conditions. The survey shall include photographs and
a written agreement to document the condition of the public facility. The
applicant is responsible for on-going road maintenance and dust control
measures identified by the Marion County Road Department during all phases of
construction.
            c.   Drainage System. The applicant shall be responsible for
immediate repair of damage to public drainage systems stemming from
construction, operation, or maintenance of the solar arrays.
            d.   Required Financial Security. The applicant shall be
responsible for restoring or paying damages as agreed to by the applicable road
authority sufficient to restore the roads and bridges to preconstruction
conditions. Financial assurance mechanism(s) in the form of a performance bond
or other security approved by the County Attorney’s Office shall be submitted
covering 130 percent the costs of all required improvements. This requirement
may be waived or modified by the Board of Supervisors by recommendation from
the Marion County Road Department.
         (10)   Decommissioning Plan.
            a.   The applicant shall submit a decommissioning plan signed by
the party responsible for decommissioning and the landowner addressing the
following with the permit application.
               i.   Defined conditions upon which decommissioning will be
initiated (e.g. end of land lease, no power production for 12 months, etc.)
               ii.   Removal of all non-utility owned equipment, conduit,
structures, fencing, roads, and foundations
               iii.   Restoration of property to the condition prior to the
development of the utility-scale solar panel array system.
               iv.   The timeframe for completion of decommissioning
activities.
               v.   Description of any agreement (e.g. lease) with the
landowner regarding decommissioning.
               vi.   The party currently responsible for decommissioning.
               vii.   Plans for updating this decommissioning plan.
   4.   Special Use Permits. Principal permitted uses designated as “SUP” in
Subsection 2 of this section shall be permitted only upon approval of a Special
Use Permit by the Board of Adjustment in accordance with Section 55.38, in
addition to conformance with all appropriate restrictions outlined in
Subsection 3 of this section.
   5.   Permitted Accessory Uses. The following accessory uses are permitted in
agricultural zoning districts:
      A.   Customary accessory uses and structures are incidental and
subordinate to the permitted principal uses, unless otherwise excluded.
      B.   One accessory dwelling unit (ADU) is permitted on the same lot as a
single-family residence when the following criteria are met:
         (1)   ADU does not exceed the larger of 1,000 square feet or 50
percent of the single-family residence.
         (2)   ADU shall share all utilities with the single-family residence.
For properties with an existing septic, systems must be sized to accommodate
the ADU. The system must meet Chapter 44 of this Code and State Code Chapter
69.
         (3)   If a manufactured home is used, it shall be on a permanent
foundation and converted to real property to be assessed as real estate.
         (4)   The ADU can be attached or detached from the single-family
residence. When the unit is attached, the ADU shall comply with setbacks for
dwellings. When the ADU is detached, the ADU shall comply with the setbacks for
accessory structures.
         (5)   Construction complies with State and local building code
regulations.
      C.   Private garage or carport (A-1 and A-R only).
      D.   Accessory Mobile Home Dwellings (A-1 only), subject to the
following:
         (1)   No more than one mobile home for use as a non-farm dwelling on a
lot accessory to a principal farm dwelling may be permitted subject to approval
by the Zoning Administrator. Said principal farm dwelling must meet perimeter
foundation requirements to qualify for an accessory mobile home dwelling. All
properties as defined by Chapter 322 of the Code of Iowa as “mobile homes” are
subject to inspections by the State Department of Public Safety.
         (2)   A permit for a temporary accessory mobile home dwelling for a
period as determined by the Zoning Administrator shall be required.
         (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall approve, conditionally approve,
or deny such request for an accessory mobile home dwelling.
      E.   Home occupations as permitted in and as limited by Section
55.18.
      F.   The taking of boarders or the leasing of rooms by a resident family,
provided the total number of boarders and roomers does not exceed three per
building (A-1 only).
      G.   No more than three shipping containers are allowed on parcels of 10
acres or less and no more than five storage containers on parcels over 10
acres.
      H.   Temporary buildings, including mobile homes or trailers, for uses
incidental to construction work, which buildings shall be removed upon the
completion or abandonment of the construction work. Temporary buildings or
dwellings shall not be permitted for a period longer than one year unless
approved in writing by the Zoning Administrator.
      I.   Roadside stands for the sale of products grown on the premises.
      J.   Private Solar Energy Systems.
         (1)   Ground-Mounted Solar Array. Ground-mounted solar array shall be:
            a.   Located in the side or rear yard.
            b.   Set back from lot lines as if the arrays were a detached
accessory structure.
            c.   Sized as if the arrays were a detached accessory structure.
            d.   Screened from adjacent residential properties.
         (2)   Building-Mounted Solar Array. Building-mounted solar array shall
be:
            a.   Mounted on a principal building or accessory structure in a
way that does not extend more than 12 inches above or beyond the surface to
which it is mounted, or
            b.   Serve as a structural component that meets the same setback
requirements as the district.
      K.   Small Wind Energy Conversion Systems (SWECS) are a permitted
accessory use subject to the requirements set forth in this subsection.
         (1)   SWECS Height. SWECS structure height shall not exceed 125 feet.
         (2)   Setbacks. The base of the SWECS shall be set back from all lot
lines by a distance at least equal to one and a half times the height of the
system.
         (3)   Clearance. Rotor blades on SWECS must maintain at least 24 feet
of clearance between their lowest point and the ground.
         (4)   Compliance with FAA Regulations. SWECS must comply with
applicable FAA regulations, including any necessary approvals for installations
close to airports.
         (5)   Appearance. Towers and rotor blades for small wind energy
systems shall maintain such finish or be painted in such manner as to conform
the tower color and appearance to the surrounding environment to reduce visual
obtrusiveness. No such tower shall have any signage, writing, or pictures that
may be construed as advertising placed on it at any time. In addition, no
flags, streamers, or decorative items shall be attached to a Small Wind Energy
System tower or turbine.
         (6)   Removal of Nonfunctional or Abandoned SWECS. Any small wind
energy system which is nonfunctional or abandoned for a continuous period of
six months shall be repaired and placed back in operation by the owner or
operated, or else the same shall be removed.
      L.   Processing of cheese, milk, ice cream, and similar items.
      M.   Wine making or processing; excluding wineries with banquet rooms,
catering, restaurants, or food sales, tasting rooms accommodating more than 25
patrons providing on-site parking is provided, or having more than 150 square
feet used for the purpose of retail sales. Special events are allowed only in
accordance with an approved Temporary Site Plan.
      N.   Small outdoor scrap yards in A-I and C-A Districts only; provided
said scrap yards are in accordance with an approved Temporary Site Plan.
Temporary Site Plan shall include all necessary dimensions which shall limit
the total storage area for all scrap piles to no more than 200 square feet in
size and no more than six feet in height. A six-foot tall opaque fence shall be
provided to effectively screen all scrap piles from adjacent homes, residential
zoning districts, and the public right-of-way. The property owner is
responsible for obtaining and complying with all necessary federal, State, and
local permit requirements.
      O.   Beekeeping and apiaries.
   6.   Site Development Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall
be observed, subject to modifications contained in Section
55.29.
BULK REGULATIONS
Regulator A-1 C-A A-R
BULK REGULATIONS
Regulator                         A-1                 C-A       A-R
Minimum Lots Area1                3 acres             1 acre    3 acres
Minimum Lot Width1
 Dwellings                       150 feet            -         150 feet
 Other Permitted Uses            200 feet            150 feet  200 feet
Maximum Density
 Per 40-acre aliquot tract       4 buildable parcels -         -
Minimum Front Yard1
 Dwellings                       35 feet             -         35 feet
 Other Permitted Uses            35 feet             50 feet   35 feet
Minimum Rear Yard1 
 Dwellings                       25 feet             -         25 feet
 Other Permitted Uses            25 feet             50 feet   25 feet
 Accessory Structures            8 feet              8 feet    8 feet
Minimum Side Yard 1 
 Dwellings, each side            15 feet             -         15 feet
 Other uses, adj. to “A” and 15 feet             50 feet   15 feet
 Other uses, adj to “R” and 15 feet             100 feet  15 feet
 Accessory Structures            8 feet              8 feet    8 feet
Maximum Height
 Principal Structure             No limitation       40 feet   35 feet
 Accessory structure             No limitation       30 feet   25 feet
Maximum Number of Stories 
 Principal Structure             No limitation       3 stories 3 stories
 Accessory structure             No limitation       2 stories 2 stories
Key: “-” = Not Applicable
Note:
1Bulk regulation minimum requirements are based on “net” areas or
distances, exclusive of public rights-of-way or private street easements.
 
   7.   Additional Requirements.
      A.   Foundations. A permanent foundation is required for all principal
dwelling buildings and accessory dwelling units (ADU’s).
      B.   Land Division and Subdivision. No parcel of land, or residual parcel
of land, shall be created following adoption of this chapter by means of
division, subdivision, adjustment, or combination that does not meet the
requirements of this Zoning Code.
      C.   Existing Parcels. Any parcel of land created and recorded prior to
adoption of this chapter shall not be considered as a buildable lot or parcel
until a determination is made by the Zoning Administrator in accordance with
Section
55.29.
      D.   Street Frontage. Street frontage to either a public or private
street shall be provided as required by Section 55.13. Private ingress or
egress easements or similar access easements shall not be accepted in lieu of
street frontage for building purposes. Front yard depth shall be measured from
the right-of-way line.
      E.   Flag Lots. Flag lots may not be permitted for building purposes in
agricultural zoning districts unless there exists a unique and demonstrable
need based upon topography or similar existing conditions. Flag lots shall only
be created via a Plat of Survey or a Plat of Subdivision and said plat must be
approved by the Zoning Administrator prior to recording.
      F.   Off-Street Parking and Loading. Off-street parking and loading shall
be as required by Sections
55.21 and
55.22.
      G.   Signs. All signs shall be as permitted and limited by Section
55.20.
      H.   Site Plans. A Site Plan shall be required for all uses except farms,
single-family residential, and duplex residential uses in accordance with
Section
55.30.
55.25 RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS (R-1, R-2, R-3, AND R-4).  
   The residentially zoned districts are intended to provide for residential
areas of various densities, to promote neighborhood quality of life, and to
provide for those areas in a manner consistent with the Comprehensive Plan. It
is intended that the district shall not be used indiscriminately to permit any
use that could potentially be detrimental to the public health, welfare, and
safety of the community. No temporary buildings, trailers, tents, or portable
or potentially portable structures shall be used for dwelling purposes.
   1.   Residential Districts.
      A.   R-1 Suburban Residential District. The R-1 District is intended and
designed to provide for the development or redevelopment of low-density
residential areas of the County with single-family dwellings on individual
platted lots.
      B.   R-2 Single-Family and Two-family Residential District. The R-
2 District is intended to provide for the development or redevelopment of low-
density residential areas of the County with one- and two-family dwellings on
platted lots.
      C.   R-3 Multiple-Family Residential District. The R-3 District is
intended to provide for redevelopment of higher-density residential areas now
developed with one-family, two-family, multiple-family dwellings, and
condominiums, and for development of areas where similar residential
development seems likely to occur
      D.   R-4 Mobile Home Park Residential District. The R-4 District is
intended to provide for the development of certain medium density residential
areas, which, by reason of their design and location, are compatible with
surrounding residential areas, for use as mobile home parks.
      E.   Pursuant to the Board of Supervisors resolution, adopted September
28, 2021, unincorporated County land located within the unincorporated town of
Pershing, as identified on the Official Zoning Map, shall now be zoned R-
1 Single-Family Residential under the County zoning regulations. Any structures
in existence prior to the adoption of the ordinance change January 1, 2023,
shall be considered a non-conforming use as defined in section
55.11.
   2.   Principal Permitted Uses. No more than one principal structure is
permitted on any lot or parcel in residential zoning districts. Principal
permitted uses for residential districts are as follows:
PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4
PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES                                                      R- R- R- R-
                                                                              1  2  3  4
Agricultural – Crop Production only for growing of farm products such as
vegetables, fruits (including vineyards), trees, hay and grain but excluding  PR P  P  P
crop storage, animal production, commercial animal raising, or roadside
stands.
Agriculture – Nurseries, greenhouses, and truck gardens.                    PR      
Cemeteries adjacent to or an extension of existing cemeteries.                PR      
Churches, chapels, temples, and similar places of worship, including parish   P  P     
house, Sunday school building
Civic – Private clubs, lodges, or veterans organizations, excepting those       P   
holding a beer permit or liquor license.
Civic – Public museums, libraries, or community centers and similar culturalP  P  P   
administrative, or public services uses.
Dwellings – Boarding Houses.                                                    P   
Dwellings – Elder family homes as permitted by and as limited by Section    P  P     
335.31 and Section 231A.2 of the Code of Iowa.
Dwellings – Family homes as permitted by and as limited by Section 335.25 ofP  P     
the Code of Iowa.
Dwellings – Mobile home parks, including mobile home dwellings, but not           PR
including mobile home sales or display areas.
Dwellings – Multiple-family dwellings (up to six dwelling units per building    P   
including apartments, townhomes, and condominiums.
Dwellings – Multiple-family dwellings (more than six dwelling units per         P   
building) including apartments, townhomes, and condominiums.
Dwellings – Nursing homes, assisted care facilities, independent care           P   
facilities, and group homes.
Dwellings – Single-family, detached.                                        P  P  P   
Dwellings – Townhomes, attached or detached (up to six units per building).     P   
Dwellings – Two-family dwellings (duplexes).                                  P  P   
Education – Child care, including daycares and preschools.                      PR  
Education – Colleges and universities, including classrooms, administration
buildings, and athletic facilities, but excluding commercial trade schools        P   
and business colleges.
Education – Primary and secondary schools, public and private, excluding    P  P  P   
boarding schools.
Education – Residential housing, including dormitories, fraternities, and       P   
sororities, if recognized by the local college or university.
Parks – Public or private parks and playgrounds.                            P  P  P  P
Recreation – Private non-commercial recreational areas and facilities
including country clubs, swimming pools, ball fields, and public or private   PR PR    
golf courses; but excluding miniature golf courses, drive-in theaters,
campgrounds, and similar non-commercial uses.
Utilities – Utility pole mounted small wireless facility.                   PR PR PR PR
Key: P = Permitted Use
PR = Permitted Use with Restrictions
SUP = Special Use Permit required
Blank = Use Not Permitted
 
   3.   Restrictions for Principal Permitted Uses. The following restrictions
shall apply to the appropriate permitted uses in agricultural zoning districts:
      A.   Agricultural Crop Production, Nurseries, Greenhouses, and Truck
Gardens. Such agricultural uses shall be permitted in residential districts
provided that no offensive odors are created and provided further that no
offensive dust is created beyond the usual and customary dust associated with
tilling, harvesting, or similar necessary activities.
      B.   Cemeteries. All buildings shall be at least 200 feet from adjacent
property lines.
      C.   Recreation – Private Golf Courses. Commercial golf courses may be
permitted by the Board of Supervisors only after public hearing and
recommendation by the Zoning Commission.
      D.   Multiple-Family Dwellings. Multiple-family dwellings, including
townhomes, are permitted in locations having common water and sewer systems,
unless specifically approved by the County Health Department. Said approval may
include increased lot areas or other restrictions as deemed necessary by the
Health Department.
      E.   Small Wireless Facility Utility Pole Height Limitations. New,
replacement, or modified utility pole or wireless support structure shall not
exceed the greater of 10 feet in height above the tallest utility pole
existing, located within 500 feet of the new, replacement, or modified utility
pole, or 40 feet in height above ground level.
   4.   Special Use Permits. Principal permitted uses designed SUP in
Subsection 2 of this section shall be permitted only upon approval of a Special
Use Permit by the Board of Adjustment in accordance with Section
55.38, in addition to conformance with all appropriate restrictions outlined
Subsection 3.
   5.   
Permitted Accessory Uses. The following accessory uses are permitted in
residential zoning districts:
      A.   Customary accessory uses and structures incidental and subordinate
to the permitted principal uses, unless otherwise excluded.
      B.   One accessory dwelling unit (ADU) is permitted on the same lot as a
single-family residence when the following criteria are met:
         (1)   ADU does not exceed the larger of 1,000 square feet or 50
percent of the single-family residence.
         (2)   ADU shall share all utilities with the single-family residence.
For properties with an existing septic, systems must be sized to accommodate
the ADU. The system must meet Chapter 44 of this Code and State Code Chapter
69.
         (3)   If a manufactured home is used, it shall be on a permanent
foundation and converted to real property to be assessed as real estate.
         (4)   The ADU can be attached or detached from the single-family
residence. When the unit is attached, the ADU shall comply with setbacks for
dwellings. When the ADU is detached, the ADU shall comply with the setbacks for
accessory structures.
         (5)   Construction complies with State and local building code
regulations.
      C.   Private garage or carport.
      D.   Home Occupations as permitted in and as limited by Section
55.18.
      E.   Nursery schools, preschools, and childcare centers in R-2 and R-
3 Districts only, provided the principal building is located at least 20 feet
from all property lines, and further provided there is established and
maintained a completely fenced and screened playlot in connection therewith.
      F.   No more than one shipping container may be used for storage in a
residential zoning district.
      G.   Temporary buildings, including mobile homes or trailers, for uses
incidental to construction work, which buildings shall be removed upon the
completion or abandonment of the construction work. Temporary buildings or
dwellings shall not be permitted for a period longer than one year unless
approved in writing by the Zoning Administrator.
      H.   Solar collectors mounted on the ground in the rear yard or attached
to the principal building facing the front, side, or rear yard at a height no
greater than the peak of the roof of the principal structure. If required,
solar access easements may be obtained from the adjoining property owners in
accordance with State statutes.
      I.   Private Solar Energy Systems.
         (1)   Ground-Mounted Solar Array. Ground-mounted solar array shall be:
            a.   Located in the side or rear yard.
            b.   Set back from lot lines as if the arrays were a detached
accessory structure.
            c.   Sized as if the arrays were a detached accessory structure.
            d.   Screened from adjacent residential properties.
         (2)   Building Mounted Solar Array. Building mounted solar array shall
be:
            a.   Mounted on a principal building or accessory structure.
            b.   Mounted in a way that does not extend more than 12 inches
above or beyond the surface to which it is mounted.
      J.   Small wind energy conversion system (SWECS) are a permitted
accessory use, subject to the requirements set forth in this subsection:
         (1)   SWECS Height. SWECS structure height shall not exceed 125 feet.
         (2)   Setbacks. The base of the SWECS shall be set back from all lot
lines by a distance at least equal to one and a half times the height of the
system.
         (3)   Clearance. Rotor blades on SWECS must maintain at least 24 feet
of clearance between their lowest point and the ground.
         (4)   Compliance with FAA Regulations. SWECS must comply with
applicable FAA Regulations, including any necessary approvals for installations
close to airports.
         (5)   Appearance. Towers and rotor blades for Small Wind Energy
Systems shall maintain such finish or be painted in such manner as to conform
the tower color and appearance to the surrounding environment to reduce visual
obtrusiveness. No such tower shall have any signage, writing, or pictures that
may be construed as advertising placed on it at any time. In addition, no
flags, streamers, or decorative items shall be attached to a Small Wind Energy
System tower or turbine.
         (6)   Removal of Nonfunctional or Abandoned SWECS. Any small wind
energy system which is nonfunctional or abandoned for a continuous period of
six months shall be repaired and placed back in operation by the owner or
operated, or else the same shall be removed.
      K.   Common sewage treatment facilities or lagoons, common water supply
facilities in accordance with requirements of the IDNR.
      L.   Accessory uses in R-4 District include only those non-residential
uses required for the direct servicing and well-being of mobile home park
residents and for park management and maintenance, such as common facility
service buildings, storm shelters, laundry facilities, vending machines,
garage, parking areas, storage facilities, garages, park management or
maintenance buildings, community buildings, swimming pools, and similar uses.
      M.   Beekeeping and apiaries; up to a maximum of four hives per acre and
provided all hives are set back a minimum of 25 feet from property lines.
   6.   Site Development Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall
be observed, subject to modifications contained in Section
55.29.
BULK REGULATIONS
 Regulator R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4
BULK REGULATIONS
  Regulator                               R-1    R-2    R-3     R-4
Minimum Lots Area1 (in square feet) 
 SF: common water and sewer              10,000 10,000 10,000  -
 SF: individual water or sewer           43,560 43,560 43,560  -
 2F Dwellings: common water and sewer    -      30,000 30,000  -
 2F Dwellings: individual water or sewer -      65,340 65,340  -
 Multiple-Family and Row Houses          -      -      15,0002 -
 Other Permitted Uses                    43,560 43,560 43,560  43,560
Minimum Lot Width1 (in feet)
 SF: common water and sewer              80     80     80      -
 SF: individual water or sewer           100    100    100     -
 2F Dwellings: common water and sewer    -      120    120     -
 2F Dwellings: individual water or sewer -      150    150     -
 Multiple-Family                         -      -      150     -
 Row Houses                              -      -      120     -
 Other Permitted Uses                    100    100    100     600
 Maximum Density (dwellings per acre)         15     8        
Minimum Front Yard1 (in feet) 
 SF Dwellings                            35     35     35      -
 2F Dwellings, Row Houses                -      35     35      -
 Multiple-Family                         -      -      -       -
 Other Permitted Uses                    50     50     50      75
Minimum Rear Yard1 (in feet)
 SF Dwellings                            25     25     25      -
 2F dwellings                            -      35     35      -
 Multi-Family, Row House                 -      -      35      -
 Other Permitted Uses                    50     50     50      75
 Accessory Structures                    8      8      8       8
Minimum Side Yard1 (in feet)
 SF: common water and sewer              8      8      8       -
 SF: individual water or sewer           12     12     12      -
 2F Dwellings                            -      12     12      -
 Multi-Family, Row House                 -      -      12      -
 Other Permitted uses                    12     12     12      75
 Accessory Structures                    8      8      8       8
Maximum Height (in feet)
 Principal structures                    35     35     40      25
 Accessory structures                    25     25     25      25
Maximum Number of Stories
 Principal building                      3      3      3       1
 Accessory building                      2      1½    2       2
Key: “-” = Not Applicable
Notes:
1Bulk regulation minimum requirements are based on “net” areas or
distances, exclusive of public rights-of-way or private street easements.
2Plus an additional 2, 500 SF per dwelling unit above three.
Interior row units shall be 20 feet wide, exterior row units shall be 30
feet side (minimums).
 
   7.   Additional Requirements.
      A.   Foundations. A permanent foundation is required for all principal
dwelling buildings and accessory dwelling units (ADU’s).
      B.   Minimum Building Width. The minimum dimension of the main body of
the principal building shall not be less than 24 feet.
      C.   Land Division and Subdivision. No parcel of land, or residual parcel
of land, shall be created following adoption of this Zoning Code by means of
division, subdivision, adjustment, or combination that does not meet the
requirements of this Zoning Code.
      D.   Existing Parcels. Any parcel of land created and recorded prior to
adoption of this Code shall not be considered as a buildable lot until a
determination is made by the Zoning Administrator in accordance with Section
55.29 of this chapter.
      E.   Street Frontage. Street frontage to either a public or private
street shall be provided as required by Section
55.13 of this chapter. Private ingress or egress easements or similar access
easements shall not be accepted in lieu of street frontage. The front yard
depth shall be measured from the right-of-way line.
      F.   Flag Lots. Flag lots shall not be permitted in residential zoning
districts unless there exists a unique and demonstrable need based upon
topography or similar existing conditions. Flag lots shall be only created via
a Plat of Survey or a Plat of Subdivision and said plat must be approved by the
Zoning Commission prior to recording.
      G.   Off-Street Parking and Loading. Off-street parking and loading shall
be as required by Sections
55.21 and
55.22.
      H.   Signs. All signs shall be as permitted and limited by Sections
55.20.
      I.   Site Plans. A Site Plan shall be required for all uses except
single-family residential and duplex residential uses in accordance with
Section
55.30.
      J.   Additional Requirements for Mobile Home Parks.
         (1)   Plan Required. Each petition for a change to the R-4 zoning
classifications submitted to the Board of Supervisors shall be accompanied by a
mobile home park plan. Said plan shall show each mobile home space; the water,
electrical, sewer lines serving each mobile home space; the location of fire
hydrants, garbage cans, accessory buildings, driveways, walkways, recreation
areas; required yards, parking facilities, lighting, landscaping, storm
shelters, and community facilities. The plan shall be considered by the Zoning
Commission, County Emergency Management Commission, and the Board, who may
approve or disapprove said plan or require such changes thereto as are deemed
necessary to effectual the intent and purpose of this Zoning Code, all in
conformance to Section
55.41.
         (2)   Lots. The individual mobile home lot shall contain not less than
4,500 square feet, with a minimum depth of 90 feet. Each lot shall have a front
yard of not less than 15 feet measured from the edge of the interior street to
the mobile home. A minimum separation of at least 25 feet shall be provided
between the rear and sides of all mobile homes and structures. Entrance-ways,
rooms, breezeways, or other additions may be constructed as additions to any
mobile home provided a minimum separation of 10 feet is maintained between all
structures. No part of any mobile home space shall be closer than 75 feet to
any public right-of-way.
         (3)   Streets. Entrance roads into the park from public streets shall
be paved with Portland cement concrete or asphalt, with concrete curb and
gutter shall have a minimum pavement width of 31 feet, measured from back-to-
back of curbs. Interior streets inside the park shall be private streets and
paved with Portland cement concrete or asphalt with concrete curb and gutter
and shall have a minimum pavement width of 28 feet, measured from back-to-back
of curbs.
         (4)   Parking. Each mobile home shall be provided a minimum of two
off-street parking spaces, all conveniently located no more than 200 feet from
the associated mobile home. All parking areas shall be paved with Portland
cement concrete or asphalt.
         (5)   Skirting. Skirting of a permanent type material and construction
shall be installed within 90 days of installation of each mobile home to
enclose the open space between the bottom of a mobile home floor and the ground
at the mobile home stand. This skirting shall be maintained in an attractive
manner consistent with the exterior of the mobile home and to preserve the
appearance of the mobile home park.
         (6)   Utilities. Public or common sewer and water facilities shall be
provided for each mobile home park space and appropriate accessory structures
in accordance with the requirements of the State Department of Natural
Resources. Any lagoons, or other treatment facilities, constructed in
conjunction with the development, shall be located not less than 75 feet from
any right-of-way or lot line (in the case of a lagoon, this distance shall be
measured from the outside toe of the levee slope).
         (7)   Recreation Areas. One or more recreation areas shall be provided
that is easily accessible to all park residents. Said recreation areas shall
have a minimum of 250 square feet of area for each mobile home in the park,
exclusive of area within the individual mobile home lots.
         (8)   Storm Shelters. A storm shelter for residents shall be required
within the mobile home park, designed to withstand at least 250 mile per hour
winds and fulfill the requirements of the County Emergency Management
Commission.
55.26 COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS (C-1 AND C-2).
   The commercially zoned districts are intended to provide for high quality
area of various densities and intensities in an effort to promote quality of
life, health, and general welfare of citizens and visitors while providing a
large variety of services and shopping, all consistent with the Comprehensive
Plan. It shall be generally recognized that the type of use is not so important
as the manner in which the use is accomplished. It is intended that these
districts shall not be used indiscriminately to permit any use that could
potentially be detrimental to the intent of the Zoning Code.
   1.   Commercial Districts.
      A.   C-1 General Commercial District. The C-1 District is intended and
designed to provide for general uses and activities of a retail business,
service industry, or professional office character that, by nature of their
business, provide service and commodities that benefit the local needs of the
unincorporated areas of the County. This district is most appropriately located
along paved streets.
      B.   C-2 Highway Commercial Services District. The C-2 District is
intended and designed to provide for general uses and activities of a retail
business, service industry, or professional office character that, by nature of
their business, provide service and commodities that benefit the general needs
of the County and the highway traveling public. This district is most
appropriately located along arterial streets or in areas that can be adequately
buffered from residential districts.
   2.   Principal Permitted Uses. The principal permitted uses for commercial
districts are as follows:
PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES C-1 C-2
PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES                                                        C- C-
                                                                                1  2
Agriculture – Animal hospital, veterinary clinic, or kennel                   PR PR
Automotive – gas or filling stations                                          PR PR
Automotive – Convenience stores, including gas and food sales                   PR
Automotive – tire and auto accessory store.                                   P  P
Automotive – public parking lots and garages.                                 P  P
Automotive – service and repair garages.                                      P  P
Automotive – car wash.                                                        P  P
Automotive – automobile, trailer, mobile home, and farm implement
establishments for display, hire, sales, and repair, including sales lots; but    P
excluding automobile, tractor, machinery, or similar wrecking and used parts
yards.
Business – Banks, loan offices, and financial institutions,                   P  P
Business – Professional and commercial offices.                               P  P
Business – Travel bureaus, real estate office, and similar agencies           P  P
Civic – Libraries, museums and similar institutions                           P  P
Civic – Private Clubs, lodges, youth centers, or veterans organizations,      P  P
including those holding a beer permit or liquor license.
Clothing – Apparel shops and clothing accessory shops for items such as       P  P
handbags, hosiery, hair, and similar accessories.
Clothing – Clothing repair shops, including tailors                           P  P
Clothing – Furriers                                                           P  P
Clothing – Costume rental shops                                               P  P
Clothing – Shoe sales or repair shops                                         P  P
Clothing – Hat sales, cleaning, or repair shops                               P  P
Clothing, Laundry – Commercial laundry, dry cleaning, or dyeing establishments  PR
Clothing, Laundry – Diaper services                                           P  P
Clothing, Laundry – Dry-cleaning pick-up stations, not including on-site         
cleaning processes
Clothing, Laundry – Laundromats                                               P  P
Commercial Entertainment – Amusement Parks                                      P
Commercial Entertainment – Bowling alleys                                     P  P
Commercial Entertainment – Billiard Hall                                      P  P
Commercial Entertainment – Camping grounds and tourist parks                  P  P
Commercial Entertainment – Theaters, indoor only                              P  P
Commercial Entertainment – Theaters, outdoor                                  P  P
Food – Meat markets, butcher shops                                            P  P
Food – Drug stores                                                            P  P
Food – Restaurants, including sit-down restaurants, tea rooms, delicatessens, P  P
coffee shops, excluding drive-thrus
Food – Drive-thru restaurants and coffee shops                                PR PR
Food – Taverns or similar drinking establishments                             P  P
Food – Milk and dairy stores and distribution stations, excluding processing  P  P
Food – Commercial Bakeries                                                      PR
Personal Services – Beauty shops, barber shops                                P  P
Personal Services – Cosmetics, manicure shops                                 P  P
Personal Services – Masseur salons, spas; excluding adult entertainment       P  P
businesses
Personal Services – Opticians and optical sales and repairs                   P  P
Personal Services – Reducing Salons and fitness centers                       P  P
Personal Services – Medical and Dental clinics                                P  P
Recreation – Baseball fields, softball fields, soccer fields, swimming pools, P  P
skating parks, golf driving ranges, or similar recreational uses and facilities
Recreation - Public and private events centers, banquet halls, party barns      PR PR
Retail – Bicycle sales and repair shops                                       P  P
Retail – Book stores                                                          P  P
Retail – Bird or pet stores                                                   P  P
Retail – Florist shops gift and card shops                                    P  P
Retail – Hardware, paint, and wallpaper stores                                P  P
Retail – Commercial greenhouses                                                 PR
Retail – Toy shops                                                            P  P
Retail – Variety stores, discount stores                                      P  P
Trades Services – Carpenter, sheet metal, and sign painting shops               PR
Hotel – Hotels, motels                                                        P  P
Utilities – Utility pole-mounted small wireless facility                      PR PR
Utility – Electrical substations, telephone exchanges, sanitary sewer lift    P  P
stations, lagoons, wells, water treatment facilities, gas regulating stations
Utility – Microwave, radio, television and cellular telephone communication   PR PR
towers.
Warehouses – Mini-storage facilities                                          P  P
Other retail business or service establishments determined by the Zoning        P  P
Administrator to be equivalent to the permitted uses listed above.
Key:
P = Permitted Use
PR = Permitted Use With Restrictions
SUP = Special Use Permit required
Blank = Use Not Permitted
 
   3.   Restrictions for Principal Permitted Uses. The following restrictions
shall apply to the appropriate permitted uses in commercial zoning districts:
      A.   Animal Hospitals, Veterinary Clinic, or Kennel. Such animal uses
shall be permitted provided any structure or area used for such purpose shall
be at least 200 feet from any residential district boundary and 100 feet away
from any A-1 or A-R District boundary.
      B.   Gas Stations and Convenience Stores.
         (1)   No gasoline filling station, or a commercial customer or
employee parking lot for 25 or more motor vehicles, or a parking garage or
automobile repair shop shall have an entrance or exit for vehicles within 200
feet along the same side of a street of any school, public playground, church,
hospital, public library, or institution for dependents or for children, except
where such property is in another block or on another street which the subject
lot does not abut.
         (2)   Pump islands, light standards, and related minor accessory
equipment not involving repair work or servicing of vehicles other than for
fuel, air, and water shall be permitted in the yard areas, provided no gasoline
pump or fuel dispensing equipment shall be located within 12 feet of any street
right-of-way.
         (3)   No oil draining pit or appliance for such purpose shall be
located within 25 feet of any residential district boundary or street right-of-
way line.
         (4)   On all corner lots, all vehicular entrances to, or exits from,
and curb openings shall be set back a minimum of 150 feet from the projecting
intersection of curb lines or edge of pavement, and such openings shall not
exceed 35 feet in width at the curb line or edge of pavement. There shall be a
minimum of 20 feet of separation measured along the curb line between any
series of driveways.
      C.   Drive-thru Restaurants. Drive-thru restaurants shall be permitted in
any commercial district provided the drive-thru lanes provide sufficient space
for vehicle queuing on the premises and provided all drive-thru lanes and
associated menu boards and speaker systems are located at least 200 feet from
any R District or A-R District.
      D.   Outdoor Theaters. The screen for any drive-in movie theater or
outdoor theater shall be so located as to not be visible from adjacent highways
or streets. Sufficient driveway area shall be provided so that cars will not be
waiting in line on any public right-of-way or otherwise create a hazard to
vehicular movement.
      E.   Trade Services, Clothes, Bakeries, Cleaning or Dyeing, Lumber Yards,
Greenhouses. No heating plant or ventilating flue in connection with any such
commercial operations shall be within 50 feet of any residential district.
      F.   Events Centers, Banquet Halls, and Party Barns. On-site parking
shall be provided for the maximum event; parking shall not be permitted on
public or private streets. All buildings shall comply with all applicable fire
codes, including number and location of exits.
      G.   Microwave, Radio, Television, and Cellular Telephone Communication
Towers but Not Utility Poles. All towers must have a fall zone. The minimum
distance from the base of any new ground-mounted communication tower to public
right-of-way or any property line shall be:
         (1)   A distance equal to at least 75 percent of the height of the
tower from any adjoining property line.
         (2)   A distance equal to at least 100 feet or 100 percent of the
height of the tower, whichever is greater, from any residential zoned district
or residential use property line.
      H.   Small Wireless Facility Utility Pole Height Limitations. New,
replacement, or modified utility pole or wireless support structure shall not
exceed the greater of 10 feet in height above the tallest utility pole
existing, located within 500 feet of the new, replacement, or modified utility
pole, or 40 feet in height above ground level.
      I.   Permitted uses with restrictions shall not be permitted to be
established or maintained in any commercial district which, by reason of its
nature or manner of operation, is or may become hazardous, noxious, or
offensive owning to the emission of odor, dust, smoke cinders, gas, fumes,
noise, vibrations, refuse matter, or water-carried waste.
      J.   Permitted uses with restrictions shall demonstrate said use will not
have any detrimental impact on existing neighboring uses due to traffic
congestion or parking needs.
   4.   Special Use Permits. Principal permitted uses designated SUP in
Subsection 2 shall be permitted only upon approval of a Special Use Permit by
the Board of Adjustment in accordance with Section
55.37 in addition to conformance with all appropriate restrictions outlined in
Subsection 3.
   5.   Permitted Accessory Uses. The following accessory uses are permitted in
residential zoning districts:
      A.   Customary accessory uses and structures incidental and subordinate
to the permitted principal uses, unless otherwise excluded.
      B.   Private garage or carport.
      C.   Home occupations are permitted in and as limited by Section
55.18.
      D.   Nursery schools, preschools, and childcare centers in R-2 and R-
3 Districts only, provided the principal building is located at least 20 feet
from all property lines, and further provided there is established and
maintained a completely fenced and screened playlot in connection therewith.
      E.   No more than one shipping container may be used for storage in a
residential zoning district.
      F.   Temporary buildings, including mobile homes or trailers, for uses
incidental to construction work, which buildings shall be removed upon the
completion or abandonment of the construction work. Temporary buildings or
dwellings shall not be permitted for a period longer than one year unless
approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      G.   Solar collectors mounted on the ground in the rear yard or attached
to the principal building facing the front, side, or rear yard at a height no
greater than the peak of the roof of the principal structure. If required,
solar access easements may be obtained from the adjoining property owners in
accordance with State statures.
      H.   Beekeeping and apiaries; up to a maximum of four hives per acre and
provided all hives are set back a minimum of 25 feet from property lines.
   6.   Site Development Regulations. Dimensional requirements for commercial
districts are as follows:
BULK REGULATIONS
 Regulator C-1 C-2
BULK REGULATIONS
  Regulator                C-1    C-2
 Minimum Lot Area         1 acre 1 acre
 Minimum Lot Width        None   None
 Minimum Front Yard Depth 30     30
Minimum Side Yard Depth  
 Adjacent to A District   50     50
 Adjacent to R District   75     75
 Adjacent to C District   10     10
 Adjacent to M District   10     10
 Accessory Structures     8      8
 Minimum Rear Yard Depth  35     351
 Accessory Structures     8      8
Maximum Height (in feet)
 Principal structures     35     40
 Accessory structures     25     25
Maximum Number of Stories
 Principal structures     2½    3
 Accessory structures     1      3
Notes: 1Microwave, radio, television, and cellular telephone communication
towers may exceed the maximum height restrictions under any approved Special
Use Permit and provided all fall zone requirements are met.
 
   7.   Foundations. A permanent foundation is required for all principal
buildings.
   8.   Off-Street Loading. Off-street loading shall be provided as required by
Section
55.21.
   9.   Off-Street Parking. See Section
55.22 for off-street parking requirements.
   10.   Site Plans. Site Plans shall be required for all uses in all
commercial districts except single-family and duplex-family residential
buildings. See Section
55.30 for Site Plan requirements.
   11.   Signs. All signage including, but not limited to, building and wall
signs, monument and pole signs, shall be in conformance with Section
55.30.
   12.   Exceptions and Modifications. See Section
55.29.
55.27 INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS (M-1 AND M-2).  
   The industrially zoned districts are intended to provide for manufacturing
processes of various intensities needed on a local, State, or national level
while promoting the quality of life, health, and general welfare desired by the
citizens of the County, all consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
   1.   Industrial Districts.
      A.   M-1 Light Industrial District. The M-1 District is intended to
reserve sites appropriate for the location of industrial uses of a light
industrial nature with relatively limited environmental effects. No residential
uses are permitted except farm dwellings in area used for agriculture, and
except for owner or night watchman’s residence.
      B.   M-2 Heavy Industrial District. The M-2 District is intended to
accommodate a wide variety of heavy industrial uses, some of which may have
significant external effects. These uses may have operating characteristics
that create conflicts with lower intensity surrounding land uses. No
residential uses are permitted except farm dwellings in area used for
agriculture, and except for owner or night watchman’s residence.
   2.   Principal Permitted Uses. The principal permitted uses for industrial
districts are as follows:
PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES M-1 M-2
PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES                                                        M-1 M-2
Agriculture – Animal production, including raising and breeding of domesticated
animals such as poultry and livestock, but not including feed lots, poultry     P   P
farms or hog confinement facilities.
Agriculture – Animal production feed lots, poultry farms or hog confinements  PR  PR
Agriculture – Crop production for growing of the usual farm products such as
vegetables, fruits (including vineyards), trees, and hay; and grain storage and P   P
grain drying facilities provided such storage is secondary to that of the
principal normal farming operation.
Agriculture – Storage and repair facilities of custom hire machinery, equipment
and supplies incidental to farming, including tillage equipment, chemical       P   P
application equipment (ground types only) and similar uses.
Agriculture – Commercial grain elevator, custom cleaning, and grain drying       SUP
facilities
Agriculture – Farm equipment repair such as blacksmith, welding, mechanical   P   P
repair, and related services.
Agriculture – Tiling contractor storage and repair facilities, including      P   P
incidental supplies and equipment.
Agriculture – Sale barns, with restrictions.                                  SUP SUP
Agriculture – Sales of feed, seed, fertilizer, and agricultural chemicals,    P   P
except ammonia.
Agriculture – Storage and pumping facilities for anhydrous ammonia.           SUP SUP
Agriculture – Animal hospital, veterinary clinics, kennels.                   PR  PR
Agriculture – Wineries, including accessory uses such as wine sales, banquet  P   P
rooms, catering and food sales, and vineyards
Agriculture – Abattoirs, slaughterhouses, meat packing and processing plants     SUP
and stockyards, and distillation of bones.
Automobile assembly and major repair                                            P   P
Automotive – Gas or filling stations                                          PR  PR
Automotive – Convenience stores, including gas and food sales                 PR  PR
Automotive – Tire and auto accessory store.                                   P   P
Automotive – Public parking lots and garages.                                 P   P
Automotive – Service and repair garages.                                      P   P
Automotive – Car wash.                                                        P   P
Automotive – Automobile, trailer, mobile home, and farm implement
establishments for display, hire, sales, and repair, including sales lots; but  P   P
excluding automobile, tractor, machinery, or similar wrecking and used parts
yards.
Business – Banks, loan offices, and financial institutions,                   P   P
Business – Professional and commercial offices.                               P   P
Business – Travel bureaus, real estate office, and similar agencies           P   P
Cemetery – Crematory, if located not less than 200 feet from any R District   P   P
Civic - Private clubs, lodges, youth centers or veterans’ organizations,      P   P
including those holding a beer permit or liquor license.
Clothing – Apparel shops and clothing accessory shops for items such as       P   P
handbags, hosiery, hair accessories.
Clothing – Clothing repair shops, including tailors                           P   P
Clothing – Furriers                                                           P   P
Clothing – Costume rental shops                                               P   P
Clothing – Shoe sales or repair shops                                         P   P
Clothing – Hat sales, cleaning, or repair shops                               P   P
Clothing, Laundry – Bag, carpet, and rug cleaning; provided necessary equipmenP   P
is installed and operated for the effective precipitation or recovery of dust.
Clothing, Laundry – Commercial laundry, dry cleaning, or dyeing               PR  PR
Clothing, Laundry – Laundromats, dry cleaning pickup stations, diaper servicesP   P
Commercial Entertainment – Adult entertainment business                       SUP SUP
Commercial Entertainment – Amusement Parks                                    P   P
Commercial Entertainment – Bowling alleys                                     P   P
Commercial Entertainment – Billiard Hall                                      P   P
Commercial Entertainment – Theaters, indoor only                              P   P
Commercial Entertainment – Theaters, outdoor                                  P   P
Commercial Entertainment – Ball fields, soccer fields, swimming pools, skatingP   P
parks, golf driving ranges, or similar recreational uses and facilities
Food – Meat markets, butcher shops                                            P   P
Food – Drug stores                                                            P   P
Food – Restaurants, including sit-down restaurants, tea rooms, delicatessens, P   P
coffee shops, excluding drive-thrus
Food – Drive-thru restaurants and coffee shops                                PR  PR
Food – Taverns or similar drinking establishments                             P   P
Food – Milk and dairy stores and distribution stations, excluding processing  P   P
Food – Commercial Bakeries                                                    PR  PR
Laboratories – Experimental, film, or testing                                 P   P
Manufacture of acids or wholesale storage of acid                                  SUP
Manufacture and repair of electric signs, advertising structures, light sheet   P   P
metal products, and heating and ventilating equipment.
Manufacture of musical instruments, novelties, and molded rubber products.      P   P
Manufacture of pottery or other similar ceramic products, using only previously P   P
pulverized clay and kilns fired only by electricity or natural gas.
Manufacture or assembly of electrical appliances, instruments, and devices.     P   P
Manufacturing creameries, bottle works, wholesale ice and ice cream plants,     P   P
cold storage warehousing, and distribution stations.
Manufacturing, compounding, assembling or treatment of articles or merchandise
from previously prepared materials such as bone, cloth, cork, fiber, leather,   P   P
paper, plastics, metals or stones, tobacco, wax, yarns, and wood.
Manufacturing, distribution, compounding, processing, packaging, or treatment
of cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, and food products, except fish and meat          P   P
products, cereals, sauerkraut, vinegar, yeast, stock feed, flour, and the
rendering or refining of fats and oils.
Manufacturing of fertilizer, gas or glue and fat rendering                         SUP
Manufacturing and assembly of equipment, truck, etc.                            P   P
Manufacture and storage of explosives                                              SUP
Metals – Blacksmith, welding, cooperage works or other metal shop, including
enameling, lacquering, or painting with controlled emissions not causing        P   P
noxious fumes or odors and excluding drop hammers and the like
Metals – Foundry casting lightweight non-ferrous metals or electric foundry,  P   P
not causing noxious fumes or odors.
Mineral Extraction, sand and gravel pits, and smelting of ores.                    SUP
Mineral smelting or reduction of ores or metallurgical products.                   SUP
Petroleum or petroleum products refining                                           SUP
Printing or publishing houses                                                   P   P
Personal Services – Beauty shops, barber shops                                P   P
Personal Services – Cosmetics, manicure shops                                 P   P
Personal Services – Masseur salons, spas; excluding adult entertainment       P   P
Personal Services – Opticians and optical sales and repairs                   P   P
Personal Services – Reducing salons and fitness centers                       P   P
Personal Services – Medical and Dental clinics                                P   P
Retail – Bicycle sales and repair shops                                       P   P
Retail – Book stores                                                          P   P
Retail – Bird or pet stores                                                   P   P
Retail – Florist shops, gift and card shops                                   P   P
Retail – Hardware, paint, and wallpaper stores                                P   P
Retail – Commercial greenhouses                                               PR  PR
Retail – Toy shops                                                            P   P
Retail – Variety stores, discount stores                                      P   P
Sawmill, planing mill, and manufacture of wood products not involving chemical  P   P
treatment.
Trades Services – Carpenter, sheet metal, and sign painting shops             PR  PR
Trades Services – Concrete mixing, concrete products manufacture, including      SUP
cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of Paris
Utilities – Utility pole-mounted small wireless facility                      PR  PR
Utility – Electrical substations, telephone exchanges, gas regulating stationsP   P
Utility – Microwave, radio, television, and cellular telephone communication  PR  PR
towers.
Utility – Utility Scale Solar Energy Systems                                  PR  PR
Utility – Wind Energy Conversion System (WCES)                                SUP SUP
Warehouse – Mini-storage facilities                                           P   P
Warehouse – Wholesale warehouse or business                                   P   P
Yards – Building material sales yards, retail lumber yards                    P   P
Yards – Circus, carnival or similar transient enterprise, provided such
structures or buildings shall be at least 200 feet from any residential         P   P
district.
Yards – Contractors’ equipment storage yard or plant, including hauling     P   P
services, or rental of equipment commonly used by contractors.
Yards – Flammable liquid storage yard, underground storage only, not to exceedP   P
50,000 gallons
Yards – Salvage yards, including auto wrecking and salvage, used parts sales     SUP
and junk, iron, rag storage or bailing.
Yards – Storage and wholesale distribution of grains                          P   P
Yards – Storage and sale of livestock, feed or fuel, provided dust is         P   P
effectively controlled.
Yards – Sanitary landfill or transfer station.                                   SUP
Yards – Garbage, offal, or dead animal reduction or dumping                      SUP
Yards – Truck terminal yards                                                  P   P
Other retail business or service establishments determined by the Zoning        P   P
Administrator to be equivalent to the permitted uses listed above.
Key:
P = Permitted Use
PR = Permitted Use With Restrictions
SUP = Special Use Permit required
Blank = Use Not Permitted
 
   3.   Restrictions for Principal Permitted Uses. The following restrictions
shall apply to the appropriate permitted uses in Industrial Zoning Districts.
      A.   Adult Entertainment. It is the purpose of this subsection to
regulate adult entertainment businesses to limit their inherent adverse impact
in the community while at the same time permitting lawful businesses to conduct
operations in the County. Because of their very nature, such businesses are
recognized as having serious, objectionable operational characteristics which
are magnified when located in close proximity to dwellings, churches, schools,
and parks. Special regulation of adult entertainment businesses is necessary to
ensure these adverse effects will not contribute to the blighting or
downgrading of surrounding areas. The Board further finds these regulations are
necessary to protect the youth of this County from the objectionable
operational characteristics of such businesses by restricting their location.
The Board further finds these regulations are necessary to protect the health,
safety, and general welfare of all residents of the County.
         (1)   Establishment of adult entertainment businesses shall include
the opening of such business as a new business, operation of such business at
an existing location under new management or ownership, the relocation of such
business, or the conversion of an existing business location to any of the uses
defined in Section 55.05. Adult entertainment business shall be subject to the
following restrictions and no person shall cause or permit the establishment of
any adult entertainment business contrary to said restrictions, limitations,
and prohibited activities or without an approved Special Use Permit.
         (2)   Limitations on Adult Entertainment Businesses. Adult
entertainment businesses shall be subject to the following restrictions and no
person shall cause or permit the establishment of any adult entertainment
business contrary to said restrictions:
            a.   No adult entertainment business shall be open for business
between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
            b.   An adult entertainment business shall not be allowed within
500 feet of another existing adult entertainment business.
            c.   An adult entertainment business shall not be located within
500 feet of any residentially zoned district.
            d.   An adult entertainment business shall not be located within 1,
000 feet of a pre-existing care center, school, private or public park, or
church.
            e.   Measurements shall be made in a straight line, without regard
to intervening structures or objects, from the main entrance of such adult
entertainment business to the point on the property line of such other
business, school, church, park, or areas zoned for residential use which is
closest to the said main entrance of such adult entertainment business.
         (3)   Prohibited Activities of Adult Entertainment Businesses.
            a.   No adult entertainment business shall employ any person under
18 years of age.
            b.   No adult entertainment business shall furnish merchandise or
services to any person who is under 18 years of age.
            c.   No adult entertainment business shall be conducted in any
manner that permits the observation of any model or any material depicting,
describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas by display, decoration, sign, show window, or other opening from any
public way or from any property not licensed as an adult use. No operator of an
adult entertainment business or any officer, associates, member,
representative, agent, owner, or employee of such business shall engage in any
activity or conduct or permit any other person to engage in an activity of
conduct in or about the premises which is prohibited by this chapter or any
laws of the State.
            d.   No part of the interior of the adult entertainment business
shall be visible from any pedestrian sidewalk, walkway, trail, street, or other
public or semi-public area.
            e.   An adult entertainment business shall post a sign at the
entrance of the premises which shall state the nature of the business and shall
state that no one under the age of 18 years is allowed on the premises. This
section shall not be construed to prohibit the owner from establishing an older
age limitation for coming on the premises.
            f.   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall intentionally
expose those parts of his or her body herein listed to others in any public
place, or in any place where such exposure is seen by another person or persons
located in any public place:
               (i)   A woman’s nipple, the areola thereof, or any portion of
the female breast at or below the nipple thereof, except as necessary in the
breast feeding of a baby; and
               (ii)   The pubic hair, pubes, perineum, or anus of a male or
female, the penis or scrotum of a male, or the vagina of a female, excepting
such body parts of prepubescent infants of either sex.
         (4)   Special Use Permit. Adult entertainment businesses may be
permitted subject to approval of a Special Use Permit in conformance with
Section
55.38, provided further that applications for such permit shall be accompanied
by evidence concerning the feasibility of the proposed request and its effect
on surrounding property and shall include a Site Plan defining the areas to be
developed for buildings and structures, the areas to be developed for parking,
the locations of driveways and the points of ingress and egress, the location
and height of walls, the location and type of landscaping, the location, size,
and number of signs, and the manner of providing water supply and sewage
treatment facilities.
      B.   Animal Production Feed Lots. All feed lots, poultry farms, and hog
confinement facilities are permitted provided that all hog confinement
facilities, feed lots, and poultry farms meet all of the waste treatment
requirements of the Iowa Department of Natural Resources and obtain the
necessary permits, where applicable, in conformance with the Code of Iowa, and
a copy of the IDNR permit is provided to the Zoning Administrator prior to
construction of said facilities.
      C.   Animal Hospitals, Veterinary Clinic, or Kennel. Such animal uses
shall be permitted provided any structure or area used for such purpose shall
be at least 200 feet from any residential district boundary and 100 feet away
from any A-1 or A-R District boundary.
      D.   Gas Stations and Convenience Stores.
         (1)   No gasoline filling station or a commercial customer or employee
parking lot for 25 or more motor vehicles, or a parking garage or automobile
repair shop shall have an entrance or exit for vehicles within 200 feet along
the same side of a street of any school, public playground, church, hospital,
public library, or institution for dependents or for children, except where
such property is in another block or on another street which the subject lot
does not abut.
         (2)   Pump islands, light standards, and related minor accessory
equipment not involving repair work or servicing of vehicles other than for
fuel, air, and water shall be permitted in the yard areas provided no gasoline
pump or fuel dispensing equipment shall be located within 12 feet of any street
right-of-way.
         (3)   No oil draining pit, or appliance for such purpose shall be
located within 25 feet of any residential district boundary or street right-of-
way line.
         (4)   On all corner lots, all vehicular entrances to, or exits from,
and curb openings shall be set back a minimum of 150 feet from the projecting
intersection of curb lines or edge of pavement and such openings shall not
exceed 35 feet in width at the curb line or edge of pavement. There shall be a
minimum of 20 feet of separation measured along the curb line between any
series of driveways.
      E.   Drive-Thru Restaurants. Drive-thru restaurants shall be permitted in
any industrial district provided the drive-thru lanes provide sufficient space
for vehicle queuing on the premises and provided all drive-thru lanes and
associated menu boards and speaker systems are located at least 200 feet from
any residential district or A-R District.  
      F.   Outdoor Theaters. The screen for any drive-in movie theater or
outdoor theater shall be so located as to not be visible from adjacent highways
or streets. Sufficient driveway area shall be provided so that cars will not be
waiting in line on any public right-of-way or otherwise create a hazard to
vehicular movement.
      G.   Salvage Yards. Salvage yards shall be permitted in industrial
districts, in accordance with a Special Use Permit, provided no portion of the
front yard is to be used for the conduct of business in any manner whatsoever,
except for parking of customer or employee vehicles. Any premises on which such
activities are carried on shall be wholly enclosed within a building or by a
wooden or masonry fence or wall not less than six feet in height and in which
any openings or cracks are less than 15 percent of the total fence area.
      H.   Trade Services, Clothes, Bakeries, Cleaning or Dyeing, Lumber Yards,
Greenhouses. No heating plant or ventilating flue in connection with any such
commercial operations shall be within 50 feet of any residential district.
      I.   Utility Scale Solar Energy Systems. Solar arrays installed as a
utility scale solar energy system and as the principal use shall conform to all
height, setback, and other requirements of the district. The following
additional standards apply to all solar arrays as a principal use:
         (1)   Prohibited. Concentrating solar power (CSP) systems shall be
prohibited.
         (2)   Site Plan. A Site Plan shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator demonstrating compliance with:
            a.   Setback and height limitations as established in the
underlying zoning district;
            b.   Applicable zoning district requirements;
            c.   Applicable solar requirements per this section.
         (3)   Compliance. Solar arrays installed as utility-scale solar energy
system installations shall comply with applicable local, State, and federal
regulations;
         (4)   Installation. System shall be installed according to
manufacturer’s recommendations and industry best practices;
         (5)   Solar Glare. All solar arrays shall incorporate antiglare
measures into the system or installation shall be placed in areas so that the
solar glare shall not be directed onto residential properties or public rights-
of-way;
         (6)   Solar Design. The design of the solar panel arrays shall use
materials, colors, textures, screening, and landscaping similar to their
background or the existing natural environment to the most reasonable extent
possible without prohibiting the installation;
         (7)   Fencing. A security fence must be installed along all exterior
sides of the utility-scale solar array installation and be equipped with a
minimum of one gate and locking mechanism on the primary access side. Security
fences, gates, and warning signs must be maintained in good condition until the
installation is dismantled and removed from the site according to the
decommissioning plan as established in Subparagraph 10; and
         (8)   Screening. The site shall be constructed with natural screening
when abutting all public rights-of-way and residential properties.
         (9)   Avoidance and Mitigation of Damages to Public Infrastructure.
            a.   Roads. Applicants shall identify all roads to be used for the
purpose of transporting solar array components, substation parts, cement, or
equipment for construction, operation, or maintenance of the solar arrays and
obtain applicable weight and size permits from the impacted road authority
prior to construction.
            b.   Existing Road Conditions. The applicant shall conduct a
preconstruction survey, in coordination with the impacted local road authority
to determine existing road conditions. The survey shall include photographs and
a written agreement to document the condition of the public facility. The
applicant is responsible for on-going road maintenance and dust control
measures identified by the County Road Department during all phases of
construction.
            c.   Drainage System. The applicant shall be responsible for
immediate repair of damage to public drainage systems stemming from
construction, operation, or maintenance of the solar arrays.
            d.   Required Financial Security. The applicant shall be
responsible for restoring or paying damages as agreed to by the applicable road
authority sufficient to restore the roads and bridges to preconstruction
conditions. Financial assurance mechanism(s) in the form of a performance bond
or other security approved by the County Attorney’s Office shall be submitted
covering 130 percent the costs of all required improvements. This requirement
may be waived or modified by the Board of Supervisors by recommendation from
the County Road Department.
         (10)   Decommissioning Plan.
            a.   The applicant shall submit a decommissioning plan signed by
the party responsible for decommissioning and the landowner addressing the
following with the permit application.
               i.   Defined conditions upon which decommissioning will be
initiated (e.g. end of land lease, no power production for 12 months, etc.).
               ii.   Removal of all non-utility owned equipment, conduit,
structures, fencing, roads, and foundations.
               iii.   Restoration of property to the condition prior to the
development of the utility-scale solar panel array system.
               iv.   The timeframe for completion of decommissioning
activities.
               v.   Description of any agreement (e.g. lease) with the
landowner regarding decommissioning.
               vi.   The party currently responsible for decommissioning.
               vii.   Plans for updating this decommissioning plan.
      J.   Utility Scale Wind Energy Systems. Wind energy conversion systems
(WCES) installed as a utility shall conform to the following:
         (1)   Site Plan. A Site Plan shall be submitted and reviewed prior to
approval of a WECS.
         (2)   Additional Information. In addition to all submittal
requirements of a Site Plan, the application for a WECS shall include the
following information, supplied by the owner, operator, or contractor
installing the structures: Plans and specifications from a registered
professional engineer experienced in the design or analysis of wind towers. The
plans and specifications shall include:
            a.   Number and location of towers.
            b.   Tower heights, and height from base to the highest point of
the rotor.
            c.   Types of tower structure.
            d.   Types of materials.
            e.   Specification for materials used for structural elements of
the towers.
            f.   Name of tower manufacturer.
            g.   Soils investigation.
         (3)   Site and Structure Requirements.
            a.   Location relative to property lines and adjoining residences.
All structures in a wind farm, including guy wire anchors, shall meet the most
restrictive of the following provisions
               i.   Setback. All structures in a wind farm, including guy wire
anchors, shall be setback at least one and one-half times the tower height from
the property lines.
               ii.   Separation Distances. All structures in a wind farm shall
be separated from a residential structure on adjoining property by at least
1,500 feet.
               iii.   Setbacks from public road right-of-way, rail right-of-way
and power lines one and one-half times the tower height.
               iv.   Setbacks from all public conservation areas of 2,000 acres
or more two miles; of all public ground of 2,000 acres or less one mile.
               v.   Setbacks from all corporate limits of one mile.
               vi.   Tower Setback, Freestanding Towers. Freestanding towers
shall be located on the lot so that the distance from the base of the tower to
any adjoining property line is a minimum of one and one-half times of the
proposed tower height. Tower setback, guyed towers. Guy supported towers shall
be located so that the distance from the base of the tower to any adjoining
property line is a minimum of 100 percent of the effective tower height from
its base.
               vii.   Multiple Towers. Multiple towers shall be spaced apart by
at least 100 percent of the tower height.
         (4)   Compliance with FAA Regulations. Wind towers must comply with
applicable Federal Aviation Administration regulations.
         (5)   Noise. Sound produced by any wind energy devices under normal
operating conditions, as measured at the property line, shall not produce sound
at a level that would constitute a nuisance. Industry standards support that
wind energy noise should not exceed 50 dba at any adjacent residential
structure.
         (6)   Lighting. No permanent lighting is allowed on towers except as
required by the FCC or the FAA.
         (7)   Interference. Any signal interference complaints associated with
wind farm towers or related equipment shall be addressed in accordance with FCC
rules and procedures.
         (8)   Other Permits and Approvals. All necessary permits and approvals
from the State Utilities Board and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
shall be obtained.
         (9)   Avoidance and Mitigation of Damages to Public Infrastructure.
            a.   Roads. Applicants shall identify all roads to be used for the
purpose of transporting wind tower components, substation parts, cement, or
equipment for construction, operation, or maintenance of the wind towers and
obtain applicable weight and size permits from the impacted road authority
prior to construction.
            b.   Existing Road Conditions. The applicant shall conduct a
preconstruction survey, in coordination with the impacted local road authority
to determine existing road conditions. The survey shall include photographs and
a written agreement to document the condition of the public facility. The
applicant is responsible for on-going road maintenance and dust control
measures identified by the County Road Department during all phases of
construction.
            c.   Drainage System. The applicant shall be responsible for
immediate repair of damage to public drainage systems stemming from
construction, operation, or maintenance of the wind towers.
            d.   Required Financial Security. The applicant shall be
responsible for restoring or paying damages as agreed to by the applicable road
authority sufficient to restore the roads and bridges to preconstruction
conditions. Financial assurance mechanism(s) in the form of a performance bond
or other security approved by the County Attorney’s Office shall be submitted
covering 130 percent the costs of all required improvements. This requirement
may be waived or modified by the Board of Supervisors by recommendation from
the County Road Department.
         (10)   Decommissioning Plan.
            a.   The applicant shall submit a decommissioning plan signed by
the party responsible for decommissioning and the landowner addressing the
following with the permit application.
               i.   Defined conditions upon which decommissioning will be
initiated (e.g. end of land lease, no power production for 12 months, etc.)
               ii.   Removal of all non-utility owned equipment, conduit,
structures, fencing, roads, and foundations.
               iii.   Restoration of property to the condition prior to the
development of the WECS.
               iv.   The timeframe for completion of decommissioning
activities.
               v.   Description of any agreement (e.g. lease) with the
landowner regarding decommissioning.
               vi.   The party currently responsible for decommissioning.
               vii.   Plans for updating this decommissioning plan.
      K.   Microwave, Radio, Television, and Cellular Telephone Communication
Towers, but not Utility Poles. All towers must have a fall zone. The minimum
distance from the base of any new ground-mounted communication tower to public
right-of-way or any property line shall be:
         (1)   A distance equal to at least 75 percent of the height of the
tower from any adjoining property line.
         (2)   A distance equal to at least 100 feet or 100 percent of the
height of the tower, whichever is greater, from any residential zoned district
or residential use property line.
      L.   Small Wireless Facility Utility Pole Height Limitations. New,
replacement, or modified utility pole or wireless support structure shall not
exceed the greater of 10 feet in height above the tallest utility pole
existing, located within 500 feet of the new, replacement, or modified utility
pole, or 40 feet in height above ground level.
      M.   Permitted uses with restrictions shall not be permitted to be
established or maintained in any industrial district which, by reason of its
nature or manner of operation, is or may become hazardous, noxious, or
offensive owning to the emission of odor, dust, smoke cinders, gas, fumes,
noise, vibrations, refuse matter, or water-carried waste.
      N.   Permitted uses with restrictions shall demonstrate said use will not
have any detrimental impact on existing neighboring uses due to traffic
congestion or parking needs.
   4.   Special Use Permits. Principal permitted uses designed SUP in
Subsection 2 of this section shall be permitted only upon approval of a Special
Use Permit by the Board of Adjustment in accordance with Section 53.37 in
addition to conformance with all appropriate restrictions outlined Subsection
3.
   5.   Permitted Accessory Uses. Uses not permitted as a principal permitted
use for that zoning district shall not be permitted as an accessory use except
as specifically permitted herein. The following accessory uses are permitted in
industrial zoning districts:
      A.   Customary accessory uses and structures incidental to permitted
principal uses.
      B.   No more than three shipping containers are allowed on parcels of 10
acres or less and no more than five storage containers on parcels over 10
acres.
      C.   Temporary buildings, including mobile homes or trailers, for uses
incidental to construction work, which buildings shall be removed upon the
completion or abandonment of the construction work. Temporary buildings or
dwellings shall not be permitted for a period longer than one year unless
approved in writing by the Zoning Administrator.
      D.   
Private Solar Energy Systems.
         (1)   Ground-Mounted Solar Array. Ground-mounted solar array will be:
            a.   Located in the side or rear yard.
            b.   Set back from lot lines as if the arrays were a detached
accessory structure.
            c.   Sized as if the arrays were a detached accessory structure.
            d.   Screened from adjacent residential properties.
         (2)   Building-Mounted Solar Array. Building-mounted solar array shall
be:
            a.   Mounted on a principal building or accessory structure.
            b.   Mounted in a way that does not extend more than 12 inches
above or beyond the surface to which it is mounted.
      E.   Small wind energy conversion system (SWECS) are a permitted
accessory use subject to the requirements set forth in this subsection:
         (1)   SWECS Height. SWECS structure height shall not exceed 125 feet.
         (2)   Setbacks. The base of the SWECS shall be set back from all lot
lines by a distance at least equal to one and a half times the height of the
system.
         (3)   Clearance. Rotor blades on SWECS must maintain at least 24 feet
of clearance between their lowest point and the ground.
         (4)   Compliance with FAA Regulations. SWECS must comply with
applicable FAA regulations, including any necessary approvals for installations
close to airports.
         (5)   Appearance. Towers and rotor blades for small wind energy
systems shall maintain such finish or be painted in such manner as to conform
the tower color and appearance to the surrounding environment to reduce visual
obtrusiveness. No such tower shall have any signage, writing, or pictures that
may be construed as advertising placed on it at any time. In addition, no
flags, streamers, or decorative items shall be attached to a small wind energy
system tower or turbine.
         (6)   Removal of Nonfunctional or Abandoned SWECS. Any small wind
energy system which is nonfunctional or abandoned for a continuous period of
six months shall be repaired and placed back in operation by the owner or
operator, or else the same shall be removed.
      F.   No more than one single-family dwelling per parcel, provided said
dwelling is occupied by a night watchman or the owner of the industrial
enterprise.
      G.   Beekeeping and apiaries; up to a maximum of four hives per acre and
provided all hives are set back a minimum of 25 feet from property lines.
   6.   Site Development Regulations. Dimensional requirements for industrial
districts are as follows:
BULK REGULATIONS
 Regulator M-1 M-2
BULK REGULATIONS
  Regulator                M-1    M-2
 Minimum Lot Area         1 acre 1 acre
 Minimum Lot Width        None   None
 Minimum Front Yard Depth 50     50
Minimum Side Yard Depth  
 Adjacent to A District   75     75
 Adjacent to R District   100    100
 Adjacent to C District   10     10
 Adjacent to M District   10     10
 Accessory Structures     8      8
 Minimum Rear Yard Depth  401,2  501,2
 Accessory Structures     8      8
Maximum Height (in feet)
 Principal structures     50     None
 Accessory structures     25     25
Maximum Number of Stories
 Principal structures     3      None
 Accessory structures     2      2
Key: “-” = Not Applicable
1Microwave, radio, television, and cellular telephone communication towers
may exceed the maximum height restrictions under an approved Special Use
Permit and provided all fall zone requirements are met.
2No rear yard required where the rear of the property adjoins a railroad
right-of-way.
 
   7.   Additional Requirements.
      A.   Outdoor Storage. All permitted uses specified in Subsection 2 shall
be conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building except for parking,
loading, and unloading facilities or outdoor storage areas. Outdoor storage
shall be permitted only in locations designated for such use on an approved
Site Plan. Outdoor storage shall be effectively screened from the public right-
of-way and adjacent residential or commercial districts by continuous evergreen
landscaping or opaque fence.
      B.   Uses Not Permitted. No use shall be permitted to be established or
maintained which, by reason of its nature or manner of operation, is or may
become hazardous, noxious, or offensive owing to the emission of odor, dust,
smoke, cinders, gas fumes, noise, vibrations, refuse matter, or water-carried
waste.
      C.   IDNR Compliance. All facilities required for the discharge,
collection, and treatment of liquid, solid, or gaseous wastes shall be
designed, constructed and operated in accordance with the regulations of the
IDNR.
      D.   Foundations. A permanent foundation is required for all principal
buildings.
      E.   Land Division and Subdivision. No parcel of land, or residual parcel
of land, shall be created following adoption of the chapter by means of
division, subdivision, adjustment, or combination that does not meet the
requirements of this Zoning Code.
      F.   Existing Parcels. Any parcel of land created and recorded prior to
adoption of this chapter, without prior approval of the Zoning Administrator,
or the Zoning Commission, shall not be considered a buildable lot until a
determination is made by the Zoning Administrator in accordance with Section
55.29.
      G.   Street Frontage. Street frontage to either a public or private
street shall be provided as required by Section
55.13 of the chapter. Private ingress or egress easements or similar access
easements shall not be accepted in lieu of street frontage unless approved as
part of a Plat of Subdivision for a larger development.
      H.   Off-street Parking. Off-street parking and loading shall be as
required by Sections
55.21 and
55.22.
      I.   Signs. All signs shall be as permitted and limited by Sections
55.20.
      J.   Site Plans. A Site Plan shall be required for all uses except farms
in accordance with Section
55.30.
      K.   Exceptions and Modifications. See Section
55.29.
55.28 OVERLAY DISTRICT REGULATIONS (FP, AHL, AND RPZ).  
   Special and Overlay Districts provide for modified base districts that are
adapted to the specific needs of different parts of the County. These overlay
districts are designed to recognize those special conditions which require
specific regulation. Overlay districts are used in combination with base
districts to expand the base district regulations, such that all parcels, uses,
and structures shall conform to the overlay district regulations where
appropriate in addition to the applicable base zoning district regulations.
   1.   FP Floodplain Overlay Zoning District (FP).
      A.   The Floodplain is designed as a zoning overlay to identify the
general location of areas within the floodway or having special flood hazards.
The floodplain includes the floodway, flood hazard areas, and the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers Flowage Easement area, whether or said Floodplain Zone
appears on the Official Zoning Map.
      B.   Additional regulations are imposed upon properties within the
Floodplain Overlay District for the protection of life and property from losses
and hazards caused by the occupancy and use of the floodplain by buildings,
structures, or activities that may increase the effects of flooding.
      C.   Marion County has adopted the regulations and flood maps of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in accordance with the National
Flood Insurance Act of 1968 and the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973. The
Flood Insurance Study and Flood Insurance Rate Maps for Marion County, and the
FEMA regulations are included in Chapter 61.
      D.   No structure or land shall be used, and no structure or wastewater
treatment facility (including septic systems) shall be located, extended,
converted, or structurally altered in designated flood hazard areas without
full compliance of the regulations of Chapter 61, the Corps of Engineers, the
Natural Resources Council, and FEMA.
      E.   If there are any discrepancies between the floodplain as depicted on
the Official Zoning Map and the flood hazard areas as depicted on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map, the Flood Insurance Rate Map shall govern.
      F.   If any discrepancies between the floodplain as depicted on Official
Zoning Map and the flowage easement area as defined by U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers, the flowage easement shall govern.
   2.   Airport Height Limitation Overlay Zoning District. (AHL)
      A.   An Airport Height Limitation Zone (HLZ) is designed as a zoning
overlay to identify the general location of areas having height restrictions
based upon the proximity of the structure, tree, or similar hazard to an
official airport within the County whether or said Airport Height Limitation
Zone appears on the Official Zoning Map.
      B.   Official airports within the County are as follows:
         (1)   Knoxville Municipal Airport as referenced in Chapter 62.
         (2)   Pella Municipal Airport as referenced in Chapter 63.
      C.   No structure or land shall be used or located, extended, converted,
or structurally altered in a designated airport height limitations overlay zone
without full compliance of the applicable chapter.
      D.   Boundary lines for the airport height limitation zone for specific,
official airports are indicated on the Official Zoning Map for informational
purposes only and are based on the following approved Airport Maps:
         (1)   Knoxville Municipal Airport Height Zoning Map as referenced in
Chapter 62.
         (2)   Pella Municipal Airport FAR Part 77 Surface Map as referenced in
Chapter 63.
      E.   If there are any discrepancies between the airport height limitation
overlay zone as depicted on the Official Zoning Map and any height restriction
imposed by the approved Airport Map, the Airport Map shall govern.
      F.   Approval for Building Permits within the AHL.
         (1)   Zoning Administrator shall determine whether the Building Permit
shall require approval of the appropriate airport authority. No Building
Permits shall be issued without such approval if it is deemed necessary by the
Zoning Administrator.
         (2)   The property owner, organization, or applicant shall be
responsible for obtaining approval from the appropriate airport authority, if
necessary.
      G.   The property owner, organization, or applicant shall be responsible
for notifying the FAA and obtaining all necessary approvals and permits from
the FAA prior to construction.
55.29 SUPPLEMENTAL AND QUALIFYING REGULATIONS.
   1.   Construction of Accessory Building Before Principal Building. No
certificate for an accessory building shall be issued until and unless a
certificate has been issued for the principal building in any residential,
commercial, or industrial zoning district. An accessory building shall not be
occupied prior to the beginning of construction on the principal building.
   2.   Replacement Dwellings. Temporary Construction Occupancy of Original
Structure. Whenever a zoning permit is issued for a new dwelling in an
agricultural or residential zoning district to replace an existing dwelling,
the existing dwelling may remain occupied during construction only if approved
by the Zoning Administrator. Said approval shall limit the duration of such
occupancy to no longer than 18 months after the date of the zoning permit. The
original dwelling shall be removed and properly disposed of within 24 months of
the date of the Zoning Permit unless said structure conforms to all zoning
regulations and has been so approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      A.   A parcel of land created by specific quantity description for agricultural purposes does not constitute a Lot
of Record and shall not be considered a buildable lot for any use unless the Zoning Administrator determines said
parcel meets all requirements for a lot, based upon the zoning of said parcel.  The Zoning Administrator may
require a survey to demonstrate the parcel meets all applicable requirements, including lot size, lot width, street
frontage, and setbacks to all proposed and existing structures.
   3.   Water and Sewage.
In all districts where a proposed building, structure, or use will involve the
use of sewage facilities, and public sewer or water is not available, the sewage disposal system and domestic
water supply shall comply with all of the requirements and standards of the
County Board of Health.
   4.   Structure Permitted Above Height Limits. The building height
limitations of the Zoning Code shall be modified as follows:
      A.   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulk-heads, fire towers,
monuments, stage towers or scenery lofts, water towers, small wind energy
conservation systems, churches, ornamental towers and spires, wireless
communication towers, radio or television towers, or necessary mechanical
appurtenances may be erected to a height in accordance with existing or
hereafter adopted regulations of the County; provided, however, no such
structure shall be permitted to extend into the approach zones, clear zones, or
other restricted air space required for the protection of any public airport.
      B.   Public, semi-public, or public service buildings, hospitals,
sanitariums, or schools, when permitted in a district, may be erected to a
height not exceeding 60 feet, and churches and temples, when permitted in a
district, may be erected to a height not exceeding 75 feet, if the building is
set back from each property line at least one foot for each foot of additional
building height above the height limit otherwise provided in the district in
which the building is built.
   5.   Other Exceptions to Yard Requirements. Every part of a required yard
shall be open to the sky unobstructed with any building or structure, except
for a permitted accessory building in a rear yard, and except for ordinary
projections not to exceed 24 inches, including roof overhang.
   6.   Mixed Use Yard Requirements. In instances where buildings are erected
containing two or more uses housed vertically, the required side yards for the
first-floor use shall control.
   7.   Utility Outlot Exception. In any zoning district, outlots designated
for public utility purposes shall not be required to meet the minimum lot size
and frontage requirements if said outlot has been approved on a Plat of Survey
or Plat of Subdivision. However, all above grade structures and appurtenances
shall meet all setback requirements of the applicable zoning district.
   8.   Accessory Mobile Home Dwelling Regulations. In the A-1 District, one
mobile home for use as a non-farm dwelling on a lot accessory to a principal
farm dwelling having a permanent foundation may be permitted subject to
approval by the Zoning Administrator. A permit for a temporary accessory mobile
home dwelling for a period as determined by the Zoning Administrator shall be
required under this section. The Zoning Administrator shall approve,
conditionally approve, or deny such request for an accessory mobile home
dwelling.
55.30 SITE PLAN REGULATIONS.
   1.   Intent. To assure that the design and location of residential,
commercial, and industrial areas will be in conformance with the zoning
standards of this chapter and are properly related to and in harmony with the
existing and future residential, business, and industrial development of the
County. In rezoning, variance, and conditional use issues it is essential that
new or expanding developments meet the established minimum standards to protect
the existing built environment; to ensure adequate provisions for public or
private utilities, such as sewer, water, and roads; and promote the health,
safety, and general welfare of the public.
   2.   Application.
      A.   A Site Plan and corresponding review are required whenever a person,
firm, corporation, or other group wishes to develop or redevelop a tract of
land in the County. The following types of development are exempt from the Site
Plan review process in any zoning district:
         (1)   Stand-alone single-family dwellings.
         (2)   Stand-alone two-family dwellings.
         (3)   Farms as outlined in Section
55.03
      B.   When a project is redevelopment, enlargement, or extension of the
existing use or structure, the review may be handled administratively through
review by the Zoning Administrator, County Road Department, and County
Environmental Health. The administrative review does not apply to the following
situations:
         (1)   If the new structure or addition is larger than 10,000 square
feet,
         (2)   If the development covers or will cover more than 80 percent of
the lot,
         (3)   If the development includes the installation of utility scale
solar or wind energy conversion system (WECS) or
         (4)   If the Zoning Administrator chooses to waive the administrative
review.
   3.   Procedure.
      A.   The Site Plan shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator, who will
determine if all the information is provided and adequate for review. Once all
the required information is received, the Zoning Administrator may forward
copies of the Site Plan to the County Road Department, County Environmental
Health, and other entities such as the State DOT for review and comment.
      B.   The Zoning Administrator shall then forward a copy of the Site Plan
to each member of the Zoning Commission. The Zoning Commission shall, after
receiving a report from County staff, review the Site Plan for conformity with
the regulations and standards contained herein and may confer with the
developer on changes deemed advisable.
      C.   The Commission may, in its discretion, hold a public hearing on the
Site Plan of the proposed development and prescribe the notice thereof and to
whom such notice shall be given.
      D.   The Zoning Commission shall forward its recommendation, either for
approval or disapproval of the Site Plan to the Board of Supervisors in a
timely manner after the date of the submission of said Site Plan. If the
Commission does not take action within 60 days of the date of submission, the
Site Plan shall be deemed to be approved by the Commission, unless the
developer agrees to an extension of time.
      E.   The Board of Supervisors shall, upon receipt of the recommendation
of the Commission, either approve or disapprove of the Site Plan for the
proposed development.
      F.   No building permit for any structure within any district in which a
Site Plan is required shall be issued until the Site Plan has been approved as
provided herein.
      G.   Upon final action by the Board of Supervisors on any Site Plan, a
copy of said Site Plan, with the action of the Board of Supervisors included,
shall be filed with the Zoning Official.
      H.   If the Zoning Administrator finds that any construction or proposed
construction or occupancy of a development on a tract of land for which a Site
Plan has been approved will not substantially comply with the Site Plan as
approved, the Zoning Administrator shall suspend all building permits for the
development and order all construction stopped until such time as the owner of
the project, or the successors in interest, shall have provided satisfactory
proof that the Site Plan will be complied with. Any person aggrieved by any
decision or action of the Zoning Administrator under this section may appeal
such action or decision to the Board of Adjustment.
      I.   If the owner or developer of a tract of land for which a Site Plan
has been approved determines that an extension of time is necessary or that a
modification of the Site Plan would provide for a more appropriate or more
practicable development of the site, the owner may apply for an amendment of
the Site Plan. The Zoning Commission may grant an extension of time or a
modification of a previously approved Site Plan if it determines such
modification of the Site Plan provides for a more appropriate development of
the site.
      J.   Expiration of Approval. All Site Plan approvals shall expire and
terminate one year after the date of Board of Supervisors approval unless a
building permit has been issued for the construction provided for in the Site
Plan. The Board of Supervisors may, upon written request by the developer,
extend the time for the issuance of a building permit for 180 days. In the
event the permit for the construction provided for in a Site Plan expires or is
canceled, then such Site Plan approval shall thereupon terminate.
      K.   Application Fee. A non-refundable application fee for the Site Plan
shall be paid in full to the Zoning Administrator at the time the application
is made, with the amount of said fee in accordance with a fee schedule adopted
from time to time by resolution of the Board of Supervisors. Under no condition
shall said fee or any part thereof be refunded for failure of said Site Plan to
be approved.
   4.   Information on Site Plan.
      A.   The purpose of the Site Plan is to show the facts needed to enable
the Zoning Commission to determine whether the proposed development complies
with the standards of this Code. Every Site Plan is expected to be prepared in
a professional manner. The Site Plan shall contain such information and data as
outlined herein:
         (1)   Location map showing relationship to surrounding roads, streams,
and public facilities.
         (2)   Scale of Site Plan shall not be more than one inch to equal 50
feet. Scale shall be shown in legend.
         (3)   Contact information for property owner. Contact information for
any engineer, architect, developer, or other similar party involved in the
project is also required.
         (4)   Date, north marker, and name of proposed development.
         (5)   Property boundary lines, dimensions, and total area of proposed
development.
         (6)   Existing buildings with size and square footage labels,
utilities, railroads, loading facilities, rights-of-way, easements, existing
road with labels, stands of trees, and drainage ways.
         (7)   Location and name of adjoining subdivisions, subdivision lots
therein, and names of the adjoining landowners.
         (8)   Zoning district classification.
         (9)   Type of water supply, sewage disposal, and storm sewer disposal
with locations.
         (10)   Proposed location of buildings, structures, parking lots,
signage, lighting, etc.
         (11)   Determination of flood elevations and relationship of proposed
development to flood prone areas, if applicable.
         (12)   Proof of Ground Water Discharge Permit application, if
applicable. Proof of permit from the State Department of Natural Resources is
required before the Building Permit is issued.
         (13)   To ensure compliance with drainage laws and soil erosion
control standards, the County may require the property owner to hire a licensed
professional civil engineer to develop a stormwater management plan and prepare
plans for the improvements necessary to implement said plan if any of the
following apply or any combination of the following cause reason to deem said
plan to be required for proposed buildings, parking areas, or other impervious
surfaces that:
            a.   Are larger than 10,000 square feet in size,
            b.   Represent more than 80 percent of the area of the lot,
            c.   Do not discharge directly into a natural drainage way, or
            d.   Discharge to a natural drainage way that is unstable or
susceptible to erosion.
         (14)   Additional information as requested by the Zoning
Administrator.
   5.   Site Plan Review Standards. The standards of the site design listed
below are intended only as minimum requirements. The Site Plan review standards
are intended to provide a consistent and uniform method of review of proposed
development plans, to ensure full compliance with the standards contained in
this chapter, other applicable chapters of this Zoning Code, standard
engineering practices, and County, State, and federal rules and laws.
      A.   Adequacy of Information. The Site Plan must include all required
information in sufficiently complete and understandable form to provide an
accurate description of the proposed uses(s) and structures.
      B.   Use of Land. The Site Plan shall indicate all proposed uses are
permitted in the zoning district in which the site is located.
      C.   Site Design Characteristics. All elements of site design must be
harmoniously and efficiently organized in relation to topography, the size and
type of lot, the character of adjoining property, and the type and size of
buildings. The site must be developed so as not to impede the normal and
orderly development or improvement of surrounding property for uses permitted
by this chapter. The site must be designed to conform to all provisions of this
chapter. Redevelopment of existing sites must be brought into conformance with
all site improvement provisions of this chapter which are relative to and
proportionate to the extent of redevelopment, as determined by the Zoning
Commission or Zoning Administrator.
      D.   Buildings. Principal building and accessory structures should be
designed to meet setback standards, height, and other dimensional standards,
and be consistent with applicable building design standards. The purposed
development shall be designed, and the buildings and improvements shall be
located within the tract of the parcel in such manner as to not unduly diminish
or impair the use and enjoyment of adjoining or surrounding property. The
developer shall provide for such fences, landscaping, and other improvements as
are proper and necessary to buffer the proposed use from the existing or
potential surrounding land uses.
      E.   Ingress and Egress. Internal roads and streets shall be adequately
constructed to accommodate the traffic generated. Entrances and exits onto
public streets shall not unduly increase congestion or traffic hazards on the
public streets and the proposed site. All buildings or groups of buildings must
be arranged so as to permit emergency vehicle access.
      F.   Drainage and Soil Erosion. The proposed development shall be
designed with appropriate regard for topography, surface drainage, natural
drainage ways and streams, wooded areas, and other naturally sensitive areas
that lend themselves to protection from degradation. It shall be the property
owners’ responsibility to ensure there are no negative impacts to abutting or
downstream properties due to development of the property, in accordance with
State drainage law. This includes impacts related to increased flows, longer
duration of flows, erosion, and similar conditions.
      G.   Public Services. The proposed development shall be designed with
adequate water supply and sewage treatment facilities and stormwater drains and
structures necessary to protect the public health and welfare by not
overloading existing public utilities. Additionally, the proposed development
shall be designed not to unduly increase danger of fire, explosion, and other
safety hazards on the general public and the persons residing or working in
adjoining or surrounding property.
55.31 TEMPORARY SITE PLANS.
   1.   Temporary Site Plans shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for
administrative approval for small-scale temporary enterprises, campgrounds, or
other temporary uses when required by this chapter or deemed appropriate by the
Zoning Administrator. A non-refundable application fee for Temporary Site Plan
Permits shall be paid in full to the Zoning Administrator at the time the
application is made, with the amount of said fee in accordance with a fee
schedule adopted from time to time, by resolution, of the Board of Supervisors.
   2.   Temporary Site Plans shall show the location of all existing buildings;
existing parking stalls; proposed temporary tents, canopies, structures, and
fences; proposed temporary parking; and other features as required by the
Zoning Administrator.
   3.   Temporary Site Plans for small-scale enterprises for public special
events, such as Knoxville Nationals or RAGBRAI, shall be limited to a period of
time starting no more than three days prior to the start of the public special
event and terminating no more than one day after the end of said event.
   4.   Temporary Site Plans for short-term events not related to public
special events, such as an outdoor sales event or a tent sale for a business
enterprise, an outdoor banquet at a restaurant, or an outdoor concert at a bar;
shall be permitted to continue for a period of no more than seven consecutive
days and shall not be permitted to occur more than two times per year.
   5.   The property owner shall be responsible for obtaining and complying
with all necessary federal, State, and local permits including, but not limited
to, liquor licensing.
   6.   A temporary Site Plan shall not be considered as approved by the County
unless the Zoning Administrator has signed and issued a written temporary
permit. The permit shall include the temporary Site Plan and shall limit the
number of days the temporary enterprise is permitted to continue and may
further stipulate other conditions such as hours of operation, number of
campsites, distance to property line, or other such conditions deemed
appropriate by the Zoning Administrator.
   7.   In certain cases, the Zoning Administrator may require the applicant to
obtain a Special Use Permit from the Board of Adjustment prior to approving a
Temporary Site Plan or issuing a permit for same.
55.32 APPLICATIONS FOR BUILDING PERMITS.
   It is unlawful to do any excavating, erecting, construction, reconstruction,
enlarging, altering, or moving of any building or structure until a Building
Permit shall have been issued by the Zoning Administrator. It is also unlawful
to change the use or occupancy of any building, structure, or land from one
classification to another, or to change a nonconforming use without the
issuance of a Building Permit.
   1.   Applications. Written applications on approved forms shall be filed
with the Zoning Administrator and shall be accompanied by plans in duplicate,
drawn to scale, showing the actual shape and dimensions of the lot to be built
upon or to be changed in its use, in whole or in part, the exact location,
size, and height of any building or structure to be erected or altered, the
existing and intended use of each building or structure, or part thereof, the
number of families or housekeeping units the building is designed to
accommodate and, when no buildings are involved, the location of the present
use and proposed use to be made of the lot, and such other information with
regard to the lot and neighboring lots as may be necessary to determine and
provide for the enforcement of this Zoning Code.
      A.   One copy of such plans shall be returned to the owner when such
plans shall have been approved by the Zoning Administrator together with such
Building Permit as may be granted.
      B.   All dimensions shown on these plans relating to the location and
size of the lot to be built upon shall be based on actual survey. The lot and
the location for the building thereon shall be staked out on the ground before
construction is started.
      C.   Evidence shall be submitted that any new proposed dwelling unit or
occupied building has met the minimum requirements of the Board of Health with
regard to sewage disposal systems and approval for the Sewage Disposal Permit
has been granted. This shall include any existing dwellings for which any
additions to the number of bedrooms are proposed.
   2.   No Building Permit shall be issued for any new structure or any
improvement to any existing structure without prior approval of the following:
      A.   A Site Plan in conformance with Section
55.30 where required.
      B.   An On-site Wastewater Treatment and Disposal System Permit in
conformance with Chapter 44 where required.
   3.   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to verify, or
cause to be verified, that the staked location of the building, structure, or
fence meets all required setbacks and that the as-built location of said
building meets said setbacks. The County shall not be responsible for verifying
that setbacks are met.
   4.   The County does not provide building inspection services of any type in
conjunction with the Building Permit. The property owner shall be responsible
for obtaining all necessary or desired building inspections for items
including, but not limited to, the inspection of footings, foundations,
framing, electrical, plumbing, mechanical, decks, and fences. All properties
are subject to any and all required inspections as outlined by the State or any
other applicable governing body.
   5.   Fees. A permit fee shall be charged for the issuance of a building
permit for a principal use or structure and for an accessory use or structure.
The amount of these Building Permit fees shall be established from time to
time, by resolution, of the Board of Supervisors.
   6.   Time Limits. Building Permits issued in accordance with the provisions
of this section shall be null and void at the end of six months from the date
of issuance, if the construction, alteration, or change of use is not commenced
within a six-month period. Proposed construction or alteration must be
completed within 18 months of the issuance of the building permit.
55.33 ENFORCEMENT BY ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.  
   A Zoning Administrator appointed by the Board of Supervisors shall
administer and enforce the Zoning Code. Said Zoning Administrator may be
provided with the assistance of such other persons as the Board may direct.
55.34 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   1.   Prevention of Violations. In case any building is, or is proposed to
be, located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted,
maintained, or used, or any land is, or is proposed to be, used in violation of
this chapter or any amendment or supplement thereto, the Board of Supervisors,
the County Attorney, the Zoning Administrator, or any adjacent or neighboring
property owner who would be specifically damaged by such violation, in addition
to other remedies provided by law, may institute an injunction, mandamus,
abatement, or any other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, restrain,
correct, or abate such unlawful location, erection, construction,
reconstruction, alternation, repair, conversion, maintenance, or use, to
prevent the occupancy of said building or land, or to prevent any illegal act,
conduct, business, or use in or about such premises, or to cause such buildings
to be demolished or remodeled.
   2.   Violations. It shall be unlawful to locate, erect, construct,
reconstruct, alter, repair, convert, use, or maintain any building, land, or
structure, or sign in violation of any regulation in, or any provisions of,
this chapter, or any amendment or supplement thereto, lawfully adopted by the
Board of Supervisors; or to fail to comply with any reasonable requirement or
condition imposed by the Board of Adjustment.
      A.   Notice. If the Zoning Administrator shall find that any of the
provisions of the Zoning Code are being violated, the Administrator, or
designee, shall notify in writing the person responsible for such violation.
The Administrator shall order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings,
or structures, removal of illegal buildings or structures or of additions,
alterations, or structural changes thereto; discontinuance of any illegal work
being done or shall take any other action authorized by the Zoning Code to
insure compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions. The notice
shall state the nature of the violation, order the action(s) necessary to
correct it, and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof.
      B.   A Notice of Violation may be served as a first attempt to gain
compliance. If compliance is not met with the sending of a Notice of Violation,
then a citation shall be served on the property owner. The offender shall be
provided a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days, in which to correct the
violations.
      C.   A violation which occurs for a short period of time is observed
having no other reasonable means for insuring compliance, may be served a
citation immediately upon observation of a violation.
      D.   If the violation is not corrected, the County may seek such
remedies, civil or criminal, as are authorized by law including, but not
limited to, the provisions of Section
1.11 for County infractions.
   3.   Penalties.
      A.   The Zoning Administrator, or designee, may assess the maximum civil
penalty per day for each violation allowed upon each violation, as outlined in
Section
1.11 for County infractions.
      B.   If prosecution becomes necessary, it shall be administered under the
provisions of Chapter 335 of the Code of Iowa, which states in part that the
violation of any regulation, restriction, or boundary adopted under said
chapter or the occupancy or use of any structure erected, altered, or
maintained in violation of said chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor. Such
occupancy or use shall be deemed a continuing violation and may be the subject
of repeated prosecutions if so continued.
   4.   Remedies.
      A.   If work is being done in violation of any provision of this Code and
continues beyond the date of the notice, and the work is not being done to
correct a violation, an immediate stop-work order shall be issued by the
Administrator. Such order shall be given to the owner of the property, their
authorized agent, or the person or persons in charge of the activity on the
property and shall be posted upon the property. The stop work order shall state
the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      B.   Violations by an individual or property owner will prohibit any
additional permits for that property or other properties to be issued unless
said permits will remedy abatement of the violations. Stop work orders will be
placed on any work on other property in which the violator is operating or
owns.
      C.   If the Zoning Administrator determines that a violation is an
immediate threat to public safety or welfare and the property owner has failed
to take corrective action within the time period stated in the notice provided,
the County may take such remedial action as is necessary to protect the public
safety or welfare. Such remedial action may include entering the property where
a violation is present, correcting the violation, and placing a lien on the
property to secure payment and reimbursement of any and all expenses incurred
by the County to correct such violation.
55.35 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; APPOINTMENT AND TERMS; MEETINGS.  
   A Board of Adjustment is hereby created. Such Board of Adjustment shall
consist of five members appointed by the Board of Supervisors for staggered
terms of five years and vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any
member whose term becomes vacant. The Board of Supervisors shall have power to
remove any member of the Board of Adjustment for cause upon written charges and
after public hearing. The Board of Adjustment shall organize and adopt rules in
accordance with provisions of the Zoning Code and the Code of Iowa. All
meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such time and place within the County as the Board of
Adjustment may determine. Such Chairperson, or in the Chairperson’s absence,
the acting chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses. All meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be open to the public.
The Board of Adjustment shall keep complete records of its hearings and other
official actions. Every rule, regulation, every amendment, or repeal thereof
and every order, requirement, or decision of the Board of Adjustment shall
immediately be filed in the office of the Board of Adjustment and shall be a
public record. The presence of three members shall be necessary to constitute a
quorum.
55.36 APPLICATIONS; APPEALS AND HEARINGS.
   1.   Applications; When and By Whom Taken. An application, in cases in which
the Board of Adjustment has original jurisdiction under the provisions of the
Zoning Code, may be taken by any property owner, including a tenant, or by a
governmental officer, department, board, or bureau. Such application shall be
filed with the Zoning Administrator who shall transmit same to the Board of
Adjustment.
   2.   Appeals; When and By Whom Taken. An appeal to the Board of Adjustment
may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer of the County affected
by any decision of the Zoning Administrator. Such appeal shall be taken within
20 days after the decision by filing with the Zoning Administrator and with the
Board of Adjustment, a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The
Zoning Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Adjustment all
the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken.
   3.   Stay of Proceedings. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from, unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the
Board of Adjustment after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with the
Administrator, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would,
in the opinion of the Administrator, cause imminent peril to life or property.
In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining
order, which may be granted by the Board of Adjustment or by a court of record
on application, on notice to the Zoning Administrator and on due cause shown.
   4.   Hearings. The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the
hearing on the appeal, give 10 days’ notice by letter to all owners of property
located within 500 feet (200 feet for property zoned residential) in all
directions from the property for which the variation is being sought, and
decide same within a reasonable time after it is submitted. If the applicant is
the only adjacent landowner within 500 feet or 200 feet of the property for
which the variance is being sought, notice must be sent to the next adjacent
landowners. Each application shall be accompanied with the amount of said fee
in accordance with a fee schedule adopted, from time to time, by resolution of
the Board of Supervisors. At the hearing, any party may appear in person, or by
agent, or by attorney.
55.37 POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.  
   The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers, and it shall be its
duty:
   1.   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in any
order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Zoning Administrator
in the enforcement of the Zoning Code or of any supplement or amendment.
   2.   To hear and permit special exceptions to the terms of the Zoning Code
upon which the Board of Adjustment is required to pass under the Zoning Code.
   3.   To authorize, upon appeal, in specific cases, such variance from the
terms of the Zoning Code as will not be contrary to the public interest, where
owing to special conditions a literal enforcement of the provisions of the
Zoning Code will result in unnecessary hardship, and so that the spirit of the
Zoning Code shall be observed and substantial justice done.
55.38 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.  
   The Board of Adjustment shall review, before issuing any Special Use Permit,
the conformity of the proposed building or use with the standards of the
Comprehensive Plan and recognized principals of land use planning. The Board of
Adjustment may approve the Special Use Permit as submitted, or before approval,
may require that the applicant modify, alter, adjust, or amend the proposal as
the Board of Adjustment deems necessary to preserve the intent and purpose of
this chapter in order to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the
community.
   1.   Applications for Special Use Permits. Applications for a Special Use
Permit under the terms of this section shall be accompanied by evidence
concerning the feasibility of the proposed request and is effect on surrounding
property and shall include a Site Plan in accordance with Section
55.30. A non-refundable application fee for a Special Use Permit shall be paid
in full to the Zoning Administrator at the time the application is made, with
the amount of said fee in accordance with a fee schedule adopted, from time to
time, by resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
   2.   In instances where the proposed use is an airport or landing field, the
permit application shall include the Airport Layout Plan (ALP) prepared by a
registered professional engineer and as approved by the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA). The ALP shall include an Airport Surface Map and
establishing airport zones that potentially impact surrounding parcels and
property, including, but not limited to:
      A.   Larger than utility runway non-precision instrument approach zone.
      B.   Transitional zones.
      C.   
Horizontal zones.
      D.   Runway protection zones.
         (1)   If Runway Protection Zones are established as an RPZ Runway
Protection Zoning District.
   3.   In instances where the proposed use is a private airstrip, the permit
application shall include the ALP prepared by a registered professional
engineer and shall include a professional determination regarding the need for
approval by the FAA. The ALP shall include an Airport Surface Map and include,
but not be limited to:
      A.   The ALP shall include an Airport Surface Map illustrating the Runway
Protection Zones at both ends of the runway.
      B.   The owner of the private airstrip shall own or have a legally
recorded easement covering the airstrip, runway protection zone, and all
facilities as shown on the approved Site Plan.
      C.   For the purposes of this chapter, the leasing or selling of hanger
space or runway use shall not be permitted in any private airstrip.
   4.   Before issuance of a Special Use Permit for any of the above buildings
or uses, the Board of Adjustment shall review the conformity of the proposal
and Site Plan with the standards of the Comprehensive Land Use Plan, and with
recognized principles of engineering design, land use planning, and landscape
architecture. The Board may approve or disapprove the Special Permit as
submitted or, before approval, may require that the applicant modify, alter, or
amend the proposal as the Board deems necessary to the end that it preserves
the intent and purpose of the Zoning Code to promote public health, safety, and
the general welfare.
   5.   In its determination upon the particular use at the location requested,
the Board of Adjustment shall consider all of the following conditions:
      A.   That the proposed location, design, construction, and operation of
the particular use adequately safe-guards the health, safety, and general
welfare of persons residing or working in adjoining or surrounding property;
      B.   That such use shall not impair an adequate supply of light and air
to surrounding property;
      C.   That such use shall not unduly increase congestion in the streets or
public danger of fire and safety;
      D.   That such use shall not diminish or impair established property
values in adjoining or surrounding property; and
      E.   That such uses shall be in accord with the intent, purpose, and
spirit of the Zoning Code and the Comprehensive Land Use Plan of the County.
   6.   Following approval of the Special Use Permit, the applicant shall
submit a Site Plan in conformance with Section
55.30, if applicable. Granting of a Special Use Permit shall not subrogate
approval of a Site Plan by the Zoning Commission.
   7.   In the event a Special Use Permit is granted under the terms of this
section, any change thereafter in the approved use or Site Plan shall be
resubmitted and considered in the same manner as the original proposal.
55.39 VARIANCES.
   1.   No variation in the application of the provisions of the Zoning Code
shall be made unless and until the Board of Adjustment shall be satisfied that
granting the variation will not:
      A.   Merely serve as a convenience to the applicant and is not necessary
to alleviate demonstrable hardship or difficulty so great as to warrant the
variation.
      B.   Impair the general purpose and intent of the regulations and
provisions contained in the Zoning Code.
      C.   Impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent properties.
      D.   Increase the hazard from fire and other danger to said property.
      E.   Diminish the value of land and buildings in the County.
      F.   Increase congestion and traffic hazards on public roads.
      G.   Otherwise impair the public health, safety, and general welfare of
the inhabitants of the County.
      H.   Practical difficulties are unique to the property and not self-
created; granting the variance will not significantly alter the essential
character of the surrounding neighborhood.
   2.   In granting any variance, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with the Zoning Code.
Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of the Zoning
Code and punishable under Section
55.34.
   3.   The concurring vote of three members of the Board of Adjustment shall
be necessary to reverse any requirement, decision, order, or determination of
the Zoning Administrator or to decide in favor of the applicant in regard to
any matter upon which the Board is authorized by the Zoning Code to render a
decision.
   4.   It is not the intention to grant to the Board of Adjustment the power
or authority to alter or change the Zoning Code or the District Maps. Such
power and authority rests solely with the Board of Supervisors, in the manner
provided in Section
55.40.
   5.   A non-refundable application fee for a variance shall be paid in full
to the Zoning Administrator at the time the application is made, with the
amount of said fee in accordance with a fee schedule adopted, from time to
time, by resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
55.40 DECISIONS OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   1.   In exercising the above-mentioned powers, the Board may, in conformity
with the provisions of law, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the
order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from, and may make such
order, requirement, decision, or determinations as it believes proper, and to
that end shall have all the powers of the Zoning Administrator. The concurring
vote of three of the members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any
order, requirement, decision, or determination of the Zoning Administrator, or
to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to
pass under the Zoning Code, provided, however, that the action of the Board
shall not become effective until after the resolution of the Board, setting
forth the full reason for its decision and the vote of each member
participating therein, has been filed. Such resolution, immediately following
the Board’s final decision, shall be filed in the office of the Board, and
shall be open to public inspection.
   2.   Every variation and exception granted or denied by the Board shall be
supported by a written testimony or evidence submitted in connection therewith.
   3.   Any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board, or bureau of the
County, or any person or persons jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision
of the Board may present to a court of record a petition, duly verified,
setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part, specifying
the grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be presented to the court
within 30 days after the filing of the decision in the office of the Board.
   4.   Whenever any application for a Special Use Permit, variance, or appeal
of any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Zoning
Administrator shall have been denied by the Board of Adjustment, then no new
application covering the same matter shall be filed with, or considered by the
Board of Adjustment, unless new evidence has been introduced, until one year
shall have elapsed from the date of filing of the first application.
55.41 DISTRICT CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare, or good zoning
practice requires, the Board of Supervisors may on its own action or by
petition, after recommendation by the Zoning Commission and public hearing as
specified herein, amend, supplement, or change the regulations, district
boundaries, or classification of property, now or hereafter established by the
Zoning Code or amendments hereof. The procedure for such amendment, supplement,
or change is as follows:
   1.   Applications for any change of district boundaries or classification of
property as shown on the Official Zoning Map shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator at their public office upon such forms and shall be accompanied
by such data and information as may be prescribed for that purpose by the
Zoning Commission so as to assure the fullest practicable presentation of facts
for the permanent record. Each such application shall be verified by at least
one of the owners of all of the property within the area proposed to be
reclassified, attesting to the truth and correctness of all facts and
information presented with the application. A non-refundable application fee
for such request for rezoning shall be paid in full to the Zoning Administrator
at the time the application is made, with the amount of said fee in accordance
with a fee schedule adopted, from time to time, by resolution of the Board of
Supervisors. Applications for amendments of the text or requirements of the
Zoning Code shall likewise be submitted to the Zoning Administrator on forms
prescribed by it and shall be verified by the person or persons preparing said
amendment. The Zoning Administrator shall forward a copy of all such
applications to each member of the Zoning Commission.
   2.   Before submitting its recommendations on a proposed amendment to the
Board of Supervisors, the Zoning Commission shall hold at least one public
hearing thereon, notice of which shall be given to all property owners within
500 feet of the property concerned (or 200 feet if currently zoned
residential), by placing said notice in the United States Mail at least 10 days
before date of such hearing. If the applicant is the only adjacent landowner
within 500 feet or 200 feet, as applicable, of the property for which the
amendment is being sought, notice must be sent to the next adjacent landowners.
The notice shall state the place and time at which the proposed amendment to
the Zoning Code, including text and maps, may be examined. When the Zoning
Commission has completed its recommendations on a proposed amendment, it shall
certify the same to the Board of Supervisors.
   3.   After receiving the certification of said recommendations on the
proposed amendment from the Zoning Commission and before adoption of such
amendment, the Board of Supervisors shall hold a public hearing thereon, the
notice of time and place of which shall be published not less than four days or
more than 20 days by one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in
the County. In addition, notices shall be sent by the United States Mail as
specified in Subsection 2.
   4.   After receiving certification of the recommendations on the proposed
amendment from the Zoning Commission and after holding the public hearing
provided for, the Board of Supervisors shall consider such recommendations and
vote upon the adoption of the proposed amendment. The proposed amendment shall
become effective by a favorable vote of a majority of all of the members of the
Board of Supervisors.
   5.   Any person or persons desiring a change in the zoning classification of
property shall file with the application for such change a statement giving the
names and addresses of the owners of all properties lying within 500 feet or
200 feet, as applicable, of any part of the property proposed to be changed.
   6.   Failure to notify as provided in Subsections 2 and 3, shall not
invalidate any recommendation of the Zoning Commission, provided such failure
was not intentional, and the omission of the name of any owner of property who
may, in the opinion of the Zoning Commission be affected by such amendment or
change, shall not invalidate any recommendation adopted hereunder; it being the
intention of this subsection to provide, so far as may be, due notice to the
persons substantially interested in the proposed change that an application is
pending before the Zoning Commission proposing to make a change in the Zoning
Map or the regulations set forth in the Zoning Code.
   7.   Each application for an amendment, except those initiated by the Zoning
Commission, shall be accompanied by a payment of a fee in an amount
established, from time to time ,by the Board of Supervisors to cover the
approximate costs of this procedure and under no conditions shall said sum or
any part thereof be refunded for failure of said amendment to be enacted into
law.
   8.   Whenever any petition for an amendment, supplement, or change of the
zoning districts or regulations herein contained, or subsequently established,
shall have been denied by the Board of Supervisors, then no new petition
covering the same property or additional property shall be filed with or
considered by the Board of Supervisors until one year shall have elapsed from
the date of the filing of the first petition.
CHAPTER 56
DIVISION OF LAND AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
 
56.01 Title and Purpose                    56.08 Preliminary Plat Requirements
56.02 Land Division Exemptions             56.09 Final Plat Requirements
56.03 Definitions                          56.10 Minor Plat Requirements
56.04 Auditor’s Plat                     56.11 Improvements Required
56.05 Filing Process                       56.12 Fees
56.06 Land Divisions within Jurisdictional 56.13 Variations and Exceptions
Limits of Cities
56.07 Design Standards                     56.14 Changes and Amendments
 
56.01 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Division of Land and
Subdivision Regulations” of the County, except as referred to herein, where it
shall be known as “this chapter.” No land shall be divided, subdivided,
transferred, or sold by reference to, exhibition of, or any other use of a plat
or map showing a subdivision of land before the survey, plat, or map has been
approved and recorded in compliance with this chapter. Land that is divided
into two or more lots or parcels of less than an aliquot part shall be subject
to the procedures and requirements prescribed in this chapter including plats
of survey, minor subdivision plats, and major subdivision plats, as applicable
by this chapter and State law.
56.02 LAND DIVISION EXEMPTIONS.
   1.   Agricultural Land Division. The division of land for agricultural
purposes into parcels of more than 40 acres, along established aliquot part
lines, shall be exempt from the requirements of this chapter provided the
division does not involve any new road, street, easement, or other dedication.
Such division of parcels of more than 40 acres shall not be further divided
without meeting all of the requirements of this chapter.
   2.   Acquisition Plats. Any acquisition plat of land divided for right-of-
way purposes shall be exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
   3.   Auditor’s Plat. Any land division by auditor’s plat may be exempt if
the division meets the requirements of Chapter 354 of the Code of Iowa,
provided there is on file a copy of the Auditor’s request ordering such plat
and a letter from said Auditor stating the plat as submitted meets the
requirements for which the plat was ordered. An auditor’s plat does not convey
building rights to a parcel unless so stated on the plat and in the resolution
passed by the governing body.
   4.   Boundary Line Adjustments. A plat of subdivision may not be required
for boundary line adjustments that do not increase the number of lots if the
Zoning Administrator determines that a plat of survey can adequately show the
necessary adjustment. If not, a plat of subdivision shall be required.
   5.   Easements. Any conveyance of an easement.
   6.   Government Lots. A subdivision plat is not required when land is
divided by conveyance to a governmental agency for public improvements.
   7.   Land Division Within the Boundaries of an Incorporated City located
within the County. No divisions or subdivisions of land shall be made or
recorded until the land division has either been approved or review has been
waived by the appropriate city.
56.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   Words beginning with “A.”
      A.   “Agricultural use only” or “ag use only” means any lot, tract or
parcel of land not specifically designated as a “buildable” lot. No building
permit shall be issued for any dwelling or principal structure on any lot,
tract, or parcel that has been designated for ag use only, however building
permits for accessory structures customary to farm operations, such as machine
sheds or corn cribs, may be issued provided they are not habitable and meet all
zoning requirements.
      B.   “Applicant” means an owner or subdivider of land proposed to be
divided or subdivided, or the owner’s representative. Where application is made
by someone other than the legal owner, consent is required from the legal owner
of the premises as a part of the application.
      C.   “Auditor’s plat” means a plat prepared at the request of the County
Auditor or Assessor to clarify property descriptions for the purposes of
assessment and taxation.
      D.   “Aliquot part” means a fractional part of a section within the
United States public land survey system. Only the fractional parts one-half,
one-quarter, one-half of one-quarter, or one-quarter of one-quarter shall be
considered an aliquot part of a section.
   2.   Words beginning with “B.”
      A.   “Block” means an area of land within a subdivision that is entirely
bounded by streets or highways; or by streets or highways and the exterior
boundary or boundaries of the subdivision.
      B.   “Bond” means cash deposits, surety bonds, or instruments of credit
in the amount and form satisfactory to the County. All bonds shall be accepted
and approved by the Board of Supervisors whenever a bond is required by these
regulations.
      C.   “Building line” means a line on a plat between which line and public
or private right-of-way line no buildings or structures may be erected.
      D.   “Buildable” means any lot, tract or parcel of land that may be
developed with structures designed for principal uses as permitted in the
applicable zoning district. To be designated as buildable, the lot, tract, or
parcel shall comply with all applicable requirements of Chapter 55 Zoning Code,
including a survey as may be required to establish property lines and setbacks.
No lot, tract, or parcel shall be considered buildable unless it complies with
the requirements of Sections
55.11 and
55.30 of the Zoning Code and has been designated as a buildable lot by the
Zoning Administrator prior to issuance of a building permit. All other lots,
tracts, and parcels shall be considered to be designated “for agricultural use
only.”
   3.   Words beginning with “C.”
      A.   “Commission” means the Marion County Zoning Commission.
      B.   “Comprehensive Plan” means the current Comprehensive Plan for the
development of the County, or any of its geographical parts, prepared for and
adopted by the Board of Supervisors and includes any parts of such plans
separately adopted and any amendments to such plans or parts thereof.
      C.   “Construction plans” means the maps or drawings prepared by a
registered engineer accompanying the subdivision plat and showing the specific
location and design of improvements to be installed in the subdivision. The
term “construction drawing” means the same.
      D.   “Contractor” means any person who constructs the improvements
required herein.
      E.   “Cul-de-sac” means a short, minor street, having one end open to
motor traffic, the other end being permanently terminated by a vehicular
turnaround.
   4.   Words beginning with “D.”
      A.   “Dead-end street” means a street presently closed to through traffic
at the end and is planned for future extension.
      B.   “Division” means dividing a tract or parcel of land into two parcels
of land by conveyance or for taxation.
      C.   “Division of land request” means a written request for the platting
requirements of any division or subdivision of a tract, lot, or parcel(s)
within the unincorporated area of the County.
      D.   “Drainageway, improved” means an improved ditch, stream, or waterway
with shaped inverts, graded slopes, and controlled velocities.
      E.   “Drainageway, natural” means an existing ditch, stream, or waterway
in as natural condition as possible and which can be maintained as such, in the
opinion of the County Engineer.
   5.   Words beginning with “E.”
      A.   “Easement” means the right of a person or corporation to use land of
another for a definite purpose.
      B.   “Engineer” means a registered engineer authorized to practice civil
engineering, as defined by the registration act of the State.
   6.   Words beginning with “F.”
      A.   “Forty-acre aliquot part” is a quarter-quarter section, the smallest
aliquot part of a section.
   7.   Words beginning with “G.”
      A.   “Grade” means the slope of a road, street, utility, earth
embankment, or other facility specified in percent of vertical to horizontal
measurements.
   8.   Words beginning with “H.”
   9.   Words beginning with “I.”
      A.   “Improvement” means any drainage, roadway, parkway, storm sewer,
sanitary sewer, water main, sidewalk, pedestrian way, tree, lawn, off-street
parking area, lot improvement, or other facility for which the County may
ultimately assume the responsibility for construction, maintenance, or
operation or which may affect an improvement for which the County’s
responsibility is established.
   10.   Words beginning with “J.”
   11.   Words beginning with “K.”
   12.   Words beginning with “L.”
      A.   “Lot” means a tract of land having fixed boundaries and identified
by number or letter designation on a survey or subdivision plat.
      B.   “Lot, flag” means a lot with access provided to the bulk of the lot
by means of a narrow corridor which does not meet the minimum permitted lot
width requirements at the minimum setback distance from the public street.
   13.   Words beginning with “M.”
   14.   Words beginning with “N.”
   15.   Words beginning with “O.”
      A.   “Owner” means any person, group of persons, firm, corporation, or
other legal entity having legal and equitable title in the land sought to be
subdivided under these regulations.
   16.   Words beginning with “P.”
      A.   “Parcel” means a part of a tract of land, said parcel must be
contiguous in order to be considered as one parcel for purposes of this
chapter.
      B.   “Plans of record” means plans prepared by a registered engineer,
showing the engineer’s signature and certifying that the public improvements
have been constructed as shown.
      C.   “Plat” means a map, drawing, or chart on which the subdivider’s plan
of the subdivision is presented and which the subdivider submits for approval
and intends in final form to record.
      D.   “Plat, final” means the drawing on which the subdivision plan is
presented in the form which, if approved by the Board of Supervisors and Zoning
Commission, will be filed and recorded with the County Recorder.
      E.   “Plat, preliminary” means a study or drawing indicating the proposed
manner or layout of the subdivision which is submitted to the Board of
Supervisors and Zoning Commission for consideration and approval.
      F.   “Plat of survey” means the graphical representation of a survey of
one or more parcels of land, including a complete and accurate description of
each parcel within the plat, prepared by a licensed land surveyor.
      G.   “Private drive” means any vehicular ingress or egress on a property
intended to serve one residential or non-residential property.
      H.   “Private road” or “private street” means a road or street in a
division or subdivision not dedicated or accepted by the County as a public
street. Maintenance of said private road shall not be the responsibility of the
County. The usage of the term private road or private street for land platting
purposes means that every right-of-way for private street hereafter established
shall be shown on the final plat by easement and shall be included within the
dimensions or gross areas of such lots encumbered by said easement. Net lot
areas of such lots shall be exclusive of right-of-way easements.
      I.   “Proprietor’s plat” means a plat as defined herein submitted by the
owner of the land being platted, or an agent, or other private entity, acting
with the consent of the owner.
      J.   “Public road” means a road or street in a subdivision which meets
all requirements and has been constructed in accordance with the standard
specifications of the County and for which a right-of-way has been granted and
accepted by the County.
   17.   Words beginning with “Q.”
   18.   Words beginning with “R.”
      A.   “Right-of-way” means a strip of land occupied or intended to be
occupied by a road, crosswalk, railroad, public street or road, electric
transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water main, sanitary sewer, storm sewer
main, shade trees, or for another special use. The usage of the term right-of-
way for land platting purposes means that every right-of-way for public streets
hereafter established shall be shown on the final plat by easement and shall be
included within the dimensions or gross areas of such lots. However, in unique
circumstances, the Board of Supervisors, upon recommendation of the County
Engineer, may require certain public streets to be shown on a final plat to be
separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right-of-way and
not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots encumbered by said
easement. Net lot areas of such lots shall be exclusive of right-of-way
easements. Rights-of-way intended for public streets or roads, crosswalks,
water mains, sanitary sewers, storm drains, or any other use involving
maintenance by a public agency are dedicated to public use by the maker of the
plat on which such right-of-way is established, except as otherwise provided in
these regulations.
   19.   Words beginning with “S.”
      A.   “Specific quantity description” means, as distinguished from a metes
and bounds description, to divide a tract by describing the quantity and
relative location within the tract.
      B.   “Subdivider” means any person who, having an interest in the land,
causes it, directly or indirectly, to be divided or subdivided.
      C.   “Subdivision” means the division of a lot, 40-acre aliquot part,
tract, or parcel of land into three or more lots or parcels by repeated
divisions or by simultaneous division, whether said lots, tracts, or parcels
are under one or more than one ownership(s). The term includes resubdivision.
         (1)   A plat of subdivision shall be made when a tract or parcel of
land is subdivided by repeated divisions or simultaneous division into five or
more parcels. Further, a plat of subdivision shall be made when a tract of land
is subdivided by repeated divisions or simultaneous division into three or more
parcels, any of which are described by metes and bounds description for which
no plat of survey is recorded.
            a.   The Zoning Commission may waive the requirement for a plat of
subdivision, including minor plat of subdivision, for a land division creating
no more than one new lot or parcel provided all other requirements of this
chapter have been met and provided there are no objections from the Zoning
Administrator, County Engineer, County Auditor, or Environmental Health. In
such cases, a plat of survey shall be provided in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
         (2)   The term “subdivision” as defined above does not include the
division of a lot where:
            (a)   the land is to be used only for agricultural uses only; and
            (b)   where all of the lots created are at least three acres net in
size, exclusive of right-of-way; and
            (c)   which includes no land set apart for new streets, alleys,
parks, open areas, school property, or public use or land set apart for
residential or other nonagricultural uses.
               i.   The plat of survey for such division shall contain the
following notation: “Note: This plat is for agricultural purposes only. No
further development, including issuance of building permits, may take place on
it without complying with the subdivision regulations of Marion County, Iowa.”
               ii.   By recording a division of land for agricultural purposes
only, the property owner agrees that any listing, offer for sale, or other
document(s) contemplating the transfer of any such parcel, or portion of such
parcel and any deed or other instrument transferring any interest in the same
shall contain the following notation in at least eight point bold faced type in
all capital letters:
“NOTE: THIS PARCEL IS PART OF A PLAT FOR AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES ONLY. NO FURTHER
DEVELOPMENT, INCLUDING ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS, MAY TAKE PLACE ON IT
WITHOUT COMPLYING WITH THE SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS OF MARION COUNTY, IOWA.”
      D.   “Subdivision, minor” means the division of a lot, tract, or parcel
of land that meets the following conditions:
         (1)   All the lots of the subdivision abut an existing dedicated
public road, highway, or street.
         (2)   No new public or private road within the subdivision is proposed
nor is any new public or private road required by the County in order to assure
adequate access to an existing public road, highway, or street from any of the
lots of the subdivision.
         (3)   All available County service systems and public improvements are
already extended so that each system is readily accessible for the direct and
individual service connection thereto from each lot of the subdivision.
      E.   “Subdivision plat” means the graphical representation of the
subdivision of land, prepared by a licensed land surveyor, having a number or
letter designation for each lot within the plat and a succinct name or title
that is unique for the County and approved by the County Auditor.
      F.   “Surety” means a guarantee in writing backed by substantial assets
pledged by any financial institution, insurance company, or other party of
substantial financial standing being bound with its principal for the payment
of a sum of money or for the performance of some duty or promise required of
the party being serviced.
      G.   “Surveyor” means a registered land surveyor authorized to practice
surveying as defined by the Code of Iowa.
   20.   Words beginning with “T.”
      A.   “Tract” means an aliquot part of a section, a lot within an official
plat, or a government lot.
   21.   Words beginning with “U.”
   22.   Words beginning with “V.”
   23.   Words beginning with “W.”
   24.   Words beginning with “X.”
   25.   Words beginning with “Y.”
   26.   Words beginning with “Z.”
56.04 AUDITOR’S PLAT.
   With regard to auditor’s plats, as distinguished from proprietor’s plats,
the Commission and Board of Supervisors shall have the right to waive
provisions governing preliminary plat approval and public improvements outlined
in the chapter, providing there is on file with the Commission a copy of the
request of the Auditor ordering such plat and a letter from said Auditor
stating that the plat as submitted meets the requirements for which the Auditor
has ordered the plat.
56.05 FILING PROCESS.
   1.   Division of Land Request. Whenever the owner of any lot, tract, or
parcel(s) of land within the unincorporated area of the County wishes to divide
or subdivide land, the applicant shall cause to be prepared a division of land
request for the purpose of determining whether the proposed land division shall
be accomplished via specific quantity description, plat of survey, minor plat
of subdivision, or plat of subdivision. Four copies of the division of land
request shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning
Administrator shall forward one copy of the request each to the County Auditor,
County Engineer, and Environmental Health, who shall each provide their
recommendation and requirements regarding the land division to the Zoning
Administrator within six working days. Within 10 working days, the Zoning
Administrator will notify the applicant of the required method, procedures, and
requirements for the proposed division of land.
   2.   Specific Quantity Description. Whenever a specific quantity description
may be permitted for the division or subdivision of land, the applicant shall
cause to be prepared all documents as required by the Zoning Administrator,
County Auditor, County Engineer, and Environmental Health. The applicant shall
provide two copies of said documents to the Zoning Administrator’s office for
review. Within 15 working days, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the owner
of any and all revisions required prior to approval. The owner shall then
provide two copies of a revised submittal to the Zoning Administrator for final
review. Within 10 working days of resubmission, provided all required revisions
have been satisfactorily completed, the County Auditor and Zoning Administrator
shall approve the specific quantity description, and both shall sign and date
said description prior to recording. The owner shall then pick up the approved
land division from the County Auditor’s office and submit all documents to the
County Recorder for recording purposes. Approval of the land division shall be
null and void unless the land division is recorded within one year after the
date of approval by the Zoning Administrator. No parcel of land created by
specific quantity description shall be considered buildable unless specifically
designated as such by the Zoning Administrator, following a more detailed
review and coordination with the County Engineer and Environmental Health
Department. Any approved specific quantity description to be used for the
division and transfer of land shall add an approval note on the initial
transfer document that this description has been approved by the Zoning
Official.
   3.   Plat of Survey. Whenever a plat of survey may be permitted or required
for the division or subdivision of land, the applicant shall cause to be
prepared a plat of survey in accordance with Section 56.07 and Chapters 354 and
355 of the Code of Iowa. The applicant shall submit two copies of the plat of
survey to the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall forward one
copy of the plat of survey to the County Engineer and one copy to Environmental
Health for their review. The County Engineer and Environmental Health shall
provide their review comments to the Zoning Administrator within 15 working
days. Within 15 working days, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the
applicant of any and all revisions required prior to approval. The owner shall
then provide two copies of the revised submittal with all necessary revisions
and documentation, including the required note on the plat stating whether each
parcel is designated as buildable or for agricultural purposes only, to the
Zoning Administrator for final review. Within 10 working days of resubmission,
provided all required revisions have been satisfactorily completed, the Zoning
Administrator shall approve the plat of survey and both shall sign and date
said description prior to recording. The owner shall then pick up the approved
land division from the Zoning Administrator’s office and submit all documents
to the County Recorder for recording purposes. Approval of the plat of survey
shall be null and void unless the plat is recorded within one year after the
date of approval by the Zoning Administrator. Approval of the plat of survey
shall be null and void unless the plat is recorded within one year after the
date of approval by the Zoning Official. The owner will have to complete the
process again, after the year has passed if they do not record, including the
subdivision fees.
   4.   Minor Plat of Subdivision. Whenever a minor plat of subdivision may be
permitted or required, the applicant shall cause to be prepared a plat of
survey in accordance with Sections
56.07 and
56.10 and Chapters 354 and 355 of the Code of Iowa, said plat of survey shall
be titled “Minor Subdivision.” Two copies of the minor plat of subdivision
shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for review. The submittal must
include the plat and information as outlined in Section
56.10 and include the appropriate fee. The Zoning Administrator shall
distribute the minor plat to the County Auditor, County Engineer, and
Environmental Health for review. The Zoning Administrator will provide a
consolidated list of corrections that are required to meet the minimum
standards of this chapter, including the required note on the plat stating
whether each lot or parcel is designated as buildable or for agricultural
purposes only. The owner shall submit three copies of the revised minor plat
and other information to the Zoning Commission for its study and approval. The
Zoning Commission shall study the proposed minor plat of subdivision, hear
citizen comments; consider the recommendations of the Zoning Administrator,
County Engineer, and Environmental Health; and make its recommendations. The
Commission shall approve, approve with conditions, or reject such plat within
60 days after the date of submission thereof to the Commission. If the
Commission does not act within 60 days, said plat shall be deemed to be
approved; provided, however, the subdivider may agree to an extension of the
time for a period not to exceed 90 days. The approval of the minor plat of
subdivision by the Commission shall be null and void unless said plat is
submitted to the Board of Supervisors within 180 days after date of approval by
the Commission. The applicant shall submit three copies of the approved plat,
along with the Commission’s recommendation of approval, for final approval by
the Board. The applicant shall submit the approved minor plat of subdivision to
the County Recorder. No plat shall be recorded that has not been certified as
approved by the Board. Approval of said plat shall be null and void unless the
plat is recorded within one year after the date of approval by the Board. The
owner will have to complete the process again, after the year has passed if
they do not record, including the subdivision fees.
   5.   Plat of Subdivision. Whenever a subdivision plat is required, the
applicant shall cause to be prepared a preliminary plat and a final plat. The
preliminary plat and final plat shall not be submitted for consideration at the
same meeting of either the Zoning Commission or the Board of Supervisors.
      A.   Preliminary Plat. A preliminary plat shall be prepared by a land
surveyor licensed in the State in accordance with Sections
56.07 and
56.08 hereof. One copy and a digital copy of the preliminary plat shall be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator for review. The submittal must include
the plat and information as outlined in Section
56.08 and include the appropriate fee. The Zoning Administrator shall
distribute the preliminary plat to the County Auditor, County Engineer, and the
County Sanitarian for staff review. The Zoning Administrator will provide a
consolidated list of corrections that are required to meet the minimum
standards of this chapter. The owner shall submit three copies of the revised
preliminary plat and other information, including a waiver for the construction
of private streets, to the Zoning Commission for its study and approval. The
Zoning Commission shall study the proposed preliminary plat, hear citizen
comments, consider the recommendations of staff, and make its recommendations.
The Commission shall approve, approve with conditions, or reject such plat
within 60 days after the date of submission thereof to the Commission. If the
Commission does not act within 60 days, the preliminary plat shall be deemed to
be approved; provided, however, the subdivider may agree to an extension of the
time for a period not to exceed 90 days. However, if the preliminary plat
includes any public improvements or, in absence of a recommendation from the
County Engineer, that all improvements shall be private, the Zoning
Administrator shall forward the digital copy of said preliminary plat to the
Board of Supervisors for their approval before said preliminary plat shall be
deemed as approved. The approval of the preliminary plat by the Commission, and
Board whenever so required, shall be null and void unless the final plat for at
least a portion of the preliminary plat is presented to the Commission within
180 days after date of preliminary approval.
         (1)   Public Hearing. Before reviewing a preliminary plat, the
Commission may, in its discretion, hold a public hearing, notice of which shall
be given by publication in a local newspaper, and by posting notices on the
tract, both seven days prior to such public hearing. Notice of public hearing
shall also be given to all property owners within 500 feet (200 feet for
property zoned residential) of the plat boundaries by placing said notice in
the United States Mail at least 10 days before date of such hearing. If the
subdivider is the only adjacent landowner within 500 feet or 200 feet of the
plat boundary, notice shall be sent to the next adjacent landowners. The notice
shall state the time and place at which the preliminary plat may be examined.
      B.   Final Plat. A final plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor
licensed in the State in accordance with applicable Code of Iowa and shall note
whether each lot or parcel is designated as buildable or for agricultural
purposes only. The subdivider shall submit to the Commission for its approval
or rejection, digital copies of a final plat of the subdivision which shall
contain the data and information outlined in Section
56.09. If the Commission approves the plat, such approval and the date thereof
shall be noted on the plat over the signature of the Chairperson of the
Commission. The approval of the final plat by the Commission shall be null and
void unless the final plat is submitted to the Board of Supervisors within one
year after date of approval by the Commission.
         (1)   Final Approval. After approval of the final plat of the
subdivision by the Commission, the recommendation of approval and two copies of
the final plat shall be submitted to the Board of Supervisors by the Commission
for final approval and for the acceptance of all public roads, streets, alleys,
easements, parks, or other areas reserved for or dedicated to the public, along
with the required surety bonds or checks guaranteeing that the improvements
required under Section
56.09 shall be installed.
            a.   No final plat shall be approved by the Board until all
required public improvements have been installed and accepted or until
appropriate surety is provided, all in conformance with Section
56.09.
            b.   No building permits shall be issued by the Zoning
Administrator for any lot in said plat until all necessary private streets have
been installed in conformance with Section
56.09.
         (2)   Filing. The final plat, as approved by the Board, shall be filed
with the County Auditor and Recorder in accordance with the provisions of
existing statutes and following procedures as required by said Auditor and
Recorder. Approval of the final plat by the Board of Supervisors shall be null
and void if the plat is not recorded within 30 days after date of approval,
unless application for an extension of time is made in writing during said 30-
day period to the Board, and granted. The provisions of this section are also
applicable to all plats approved prior to the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this chapter.
            a.   No final plat shall be recorded unless it has been stamped as
approved by the Board of Supervisors.
            b.   No final plat shall be recorded if said plat includes a
private street that does not meet the minimum standards required herein unless
a consent and waiver is recorded for each lot within the subdivision stating
that the cost for any improvements to bring the private street up to minimum
standards shall be the responsibility of the property owner(s).
56.06 LAND DIVISIONS WITHIN JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS OF CITIES.
   With regard to land divisions or subdivisions located in the unincorporated
area of the County, have enacted subdivision regulations in accordance with the
provisions of Section 354.9, Code of Iowa, or the current 28E agreement with
the individual municipality, the provisions of this chapter shall apply. The
purpose of this section is to facilitate the orderly processing of land
divisions and subdivisions in unincorporated areas within the provisions of
Section 354.9, Code of Iowa, or current 28E agreements with the individual
municipality of the corporate limits of cities and to avoid conflicting
regulations while at the same time assuring that provisions are made for proper
and orderly future growth of the County and its cities.
   1.   Plats of Subdivision. The appropriate City Council(s) shall pass by
resolution either the approval, disapproval, or waiver of cities right to
review all subdivision plats lying within two miles of their incorporated
boundary. The applicant is required to provide additional copies to the
appropriate city along with necessary fees as required by said city.
      A.   The City Council of the appropriate city may agree to waive their
right to review a plat of subdivision to the end that the City is satisfied
equally suitable regulations shall be placed on said subdivision by Marion
County under the provisions of this chapter. In such instance, the Zoning
Administrator shall furnish the City a copy of the said subdivision, as
approved by the County, certifying that all requirements of the Marion County
Subdivision Regulations have been met.
   2.   Plats of Survey. A plat of survey within the provisions of Section
354.9, Code of Iowa, or current 28E agreements with the individual municipality
may be subject to review and may require approval by city. The owner or project
representative is required to provide additional copies along with necessary
fees as required by appropriate city.
56.07 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The standards and details of design contained herein are intended only as
minimum requirements so that the general arrangement and layout of a
subdivision, survey, or buildable parcel(s) may be adjusted to a wide variety
of circumstances. However, in the design and development of buildable lots or
parcels, the applicant should use standards consistent with the site conditions
so as to assure an economical, pleasant, and durable development. Approval of
land divisions by specific quantity description or plat of survey for buildable
parcels that do not meet the requirements of this section may be denied by the
Zoning Administrator. Approval of plats of subdivision or minor plats of
subdivision that do not meet the requirements of this section may be denied by
the Zoning Commission or Board of Supervisors.
   1.   General Requirements.
      A.   Comprehensive Plan. All proposed plats and subdivisions shall
conform to the Comprehensive Plan of the County. If any overall plan or
neighborhood plan has been made by the Commission for the area in which the
proposed subdivision is located, the street system of the latter shall conform
in general thereto.
      B.   No Landlocked Parcels. No parcels or remnant parcels shall be
created via plat of survey or subdivision that do not have a means for access
for future development purposes. Buildable lots or parcels created after the
effective date of this chapter shall have frontage to a public or private
street. Lots or parcels designated for agricultural purposes only may have
access from an adjoining parcel under the same ownership.
      C.   Physical and Cultural Features. In general, streets, shall be
platted with appropriate regard for topography, creeks, wooded areas, and other
natural features which would lend themselves to attractive treatment.
         (1)   Storm drainage facilities shall be designed and constructed in
conformance with the Statewide Urban Design Standards and Specifications
(SUDAS).
         (2)   The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
Permit is required for construction sites equal to or larger than one acre.
Permits must be obtained before earthwork begins.
      D.   Flag Lots. Flag lots are permitted with unimpeded access from the
pole to the flag.
         (1)   The pole for the flag should met the minimum standards of right-
of-way. The stem or pole should match the surrounding development standards. If
the adjacent land has not been subdivided, the stem can be 66 feet. When the
adjacent property has previously been subdivided, the stem shall be 33 feet.
   2.   Street and Engineering Requirements.
      A.   Half Streets. Dedication of half streets will be discouraged. Where
there exists a dedicated or platted half street or alley adjacent to the tract
to be subdivided, the other half shall be platted if deemed necessary by the
Commission.
      B.   Alleys. Alleys may be required in business areas and industrial
districts for adequate access to block interiors and for off-street loading and
parking purposes. Except where justified by unusual conditions, alleys will not
be approved in residential districts. Dead-end alleys shall be provided with a
means of turning around at the dead-end thereof.
      C.   Street Intersections. Street intersections shall be as nearly at
right angles as possible.
      D.   Cul-De-Sacs. Whenever a cul-de-sac is permitted, such street shall
be provided at the closed end with a turnaround having a street property line
diameter of at least 135 feet in the case of the residential subdivision. The
right-of-way width of the street leading to the turnaround shall be a minimum
of 66 feet for private streets and 66 feet for public streets. The property
line at the intersections of the turnaround and the lead-in portion of the
street shall be rounded at a radius of not less than 75 feet. Where the cul-de-
sac is a public street, said public street shall not be longer than 660 feet.
      E.   Continuation of Existing Streets. Proposed streets shall provide for
continuation or completion of any existing streets (constructed or recorded) in
adjoining property, at equal or greater width, but no street right-of-way shall
be less than 66 feet in width, and in similar alignment, unless variations are
recommended by the Commission.
      F.   Circulation. The street patterns shall provide ease of circulation
within the subdivision as well as convenient access to adjoining streets,
thoroughfares, or unsubdivided land as may be required by the Commission. In a
case where a street will eventually be extended beyond the plat, but is
temporarily dead-ended, an interim turnaround may be required.
      G.   Street Names. All newly platted streets, whether public or private,
shall be addressed in a manner consistent with the present addressing system. A
proposed street that is obviously in alignment with other existing streets, or
with a street that may be logically extended, although the various portions be
at a considerable distance from each other, shall bear the same name. Names of
new streets shall be subject to the approval of the 911 Coordinator in order to
avoid duplication or close similarity of names.
      H.   Major Thoroughfares. Where a new subdivision, except where justified
by limiting conditions, involves frontage on a trafficway, limited access way,
freeway, or parkway, the street layout shall provide motor access to such
frontage by one of the following means:
         (1)   A parallel street supplying frontage for lots backing onto the
trafficway.
         (2)   A series of cul-de-sacs or short loops entered from and planned
at right angles to such a parallel street, with their terminal lots backing
onto the highway.
         (3)   An access drive separated by a planting strip from the highway
to which motor access from the drive is provided at points suitably spaced.
         (4)   A service drive or alley at the rear of the lots. Where any one
of the above-mentioned arrangements is used, deed covenants or other means
should prevent any private residential driveways from having direct access to
the trafficway.
         (5)   Where improvements to existing public farm to market roads or
federal aide routes are necessary, including turning lanes or pavement
widening, the pavement surface shall be designed in accordance with IDOT or
SUDAS standards fitting the design traffic needs and shall be approved by the
County Engineer.
         (6)   Where access to any public or private street within the
subdivision or to any lot or parcel with the plat is from any highway or street
under the jurisdiction of the IDOT, no plat of survey or plat of subdivision
shall be finally approved until all necessary entrance permits have been
obtained from the IDOT.
      I.   New Subdivision Streets. Where a proposed subdivision requires or
proposes a new street within the development, the following shall apply:
         (1)   All roads and related infrastructure including, but not limited
to, pavement, curb, storm sewers, and culverts shall remain private until such
time as the County Engineer recommends acceptance and the Board of Supervisors
accepts such facilities and right-of-way in accordance with Section
56.11.
         (2)   Completion of the subdivision shall not compel the County to
maintain any portion of the infrastructure.
         (3)   No subdivision shall be approved unless access to all lots is
available from an improved public or private road.
         (4)   No individual road within a subdivision, including all phases of
the subdivision, shall be eligible to be a County-maintained public road until
the entire subdivision, including all phases, is completed to the standards in
place at the time of the completion of each phase of the final improvements to
the subdivision.
         (5)   Pavement width, thickness, and materials for private residential
roads shall be in accordance with Marion County’s current policy on “Hard
Surface Improvement of Roads” as adopted by the Board of Supervisors, unless
said pavement width and materials has been waived in accordance with Section
56.07(2)(M).
      J.   Easements.
         (1)   Right-Of-Way Easements.
            a.   An easement for the benefit of the County shall be provided
for all public streets before same will be accepted for County maintenance.
            b.   Major public thoroughfares shall have a minimum right-of-way
as specified by the County Engineer. Minor or residential public streets shall
not be less than 66 feet wide.
            c.   Private residential streets shall have a minimum right-of-way
easement width of 66 feet. An easement shall be provided for the benefit of all
property owners having access via a private street, with maintenance of the
private street the responsibility of all such property owners by means of a
recorded legal document. The private street right-of-way easement shall not be
included in the “net” acres of any lot or parcel.
            d.   In no case shall a private right-of-way or roadway easement
for a private street be located on a separate lot.
         (2)   Utility Easements. Easements for utilities shall be provided
along rear or side lot lines or along alleys, if needed.
         (3)   Drainage Easements. Whenever any stream or important surface
water course is located in an area that is being subdivided, the subdivider
shall, at said owner’s own expense, make adequate provision for straightening
or widening the channel so that it will properly carry the surface water, and
shall provide and dedicate to the County an easement along each side of the
stream, which easement shall be for the purpose of widening, improving, or
protecting the stream. The width of such easement shall be not less than 20
feet and the total width of the easement shall be adequate to provide for any
necessary channel relocation or straightening. It shall not be the
responsibility of the County to repair embankments, remove fallen trees, or
replace vegetation as a result of erosion, construction, farm operations or
similar causes.
         (4)   Property owner or tenant shall not erect any permanent
structures in any right-of-way, drainage way or easement, or utility easement,
but shall have the right to make any other use of the land subject to such
easement which is not inconsistent with the rights of the grantee.
      K.   Unsubdivided Portion of Plat. Where the land division to be
submitted includes only part of the tract owned by the subdivider, the Zoning
Administrator or Commission may require topography and a sketch of a tentative
future street system of the developed portion.
      L.   Sidewalks. Sidewalks may be required by the Board of Supervisors at
the time of final platting along any public or private street in the
subdivision in accordance with standards and specifications of the County.
Where streets include curb and gutter, sidewalks shall be located within the
right-of-way, if sidewalks are required. Where streets do not include curb and
gutter, sidewalks shall be located within an easement adjacent to the right-of-
way, if sidewalks are required. When sidewalks are required, they shall be
constructed in conjunction with the principal structure on the adjoining lot.
      M.   Consent and Waiver. In subdivisions where a majority of lots are not
less than 100 feet in width, along streets designated for single-family use,
the Zoning Commission may waive the following requirements, upon recommendation
of the County Engineer, at the time of consideration of the preliminary plat.
If such subdivision is within the jurisdictional limits of a city, the
applicable city must also waive said requirements.
         (1)   Pavement Surface. In said subdivisions, the Commission may waive
the requirement for concrete paving for private sewers, in which case the type
and strength of street surfacing to be installed shall be noted on the
preliminary plat and final plat.
         (2)   Curb and Gutter. In said subdivisions and where conditions are
such as to discourage street parking, the Commission may waive the requirement
of curb and gutter, in which case a typical section of the roadside ditches
shall be added to the preliminary plat.
         (3)   Sidewalks. where the buildable parcels have frontage on public
or private streets not having curb and gutter, the Commission or Zoning
Administrator may waive the requirement for sidewalks.
         (4)   Streetlights. In subdivisions not having streets with curb and
gutter, the Commission may waive the requirement for streetlights.
         (5)   In the event facilities are proposed by the subdivider that do
not meet the minimum standards described by this chapter or are not in
conformance with the Secondary Road Department Subdivision Policy, each lot or
tract within said subdivision shall have a consent and waiver approved by the
Commission with the preliminary plat and approved by the Board and recorded
with the final plat stating that the cost for any improvements to bring the
private street up to minimum standards shall be the responsibility of the
property owner(s).
      N.   Access. Any new land division fronting on a public trafficway shall
have no more than four accesses onto each side of such trafficway in each 1,320
feet; Any new land division fronting a public trafficway shall have access
based on the lot sizes; provided, however, that approved field drives shall not
be considered. All accesses shall be placed only at the direction of the County
Engineer. No access drive shall be permitted to a County public road in a
subdivision where access is available to a private road within a subdivision.
      O.   Access. Public streets shall be completed to grades which have been
officially determined or approved by the County Engineer. All public and
private streets shall be graded to the full width of the right-of-way and
adjacent side slopes graded to blend with the natural ground level. The maximum
grade for all streets shall be designed in accordance with the Statewide Urban
Design Standards and Specifications (SUDAS). All changes in grades on major
roads or highways shall be connected by vertical curves in accordance with
SUDAS. The grade alignment and resultant visibility, especially at
intersections, shall be worked out in detail to meet the approval of the County
Engineer.
      P.   Railroads. If a railroad is involved, the subdivision plan should:
         (1)   Be so arranged as to permit, where necessary, future grade
separation at highway crossings of the railroad.
         (2)   Border the railroad with a parallel street at a sufficient
distance from it to permit deep lots to back onto the railroad; or form a
buffer strip for park, commercial, or industrial use.
         (3)   Provide cul-de-sacs at right angles to the railroad so as to
permit lots to back thereunto.
      Q.   Erosion Control. It shall be the responsibility of the property
owner or the subdivider to obtain the necessary permits prior to commencing
construction, including, but not limited to, a NPDES Stormwater Discharge
Permit and preparation of a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP), and
all current standards set forth by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources
including to all land disturbances of less than one acre total land area, that
is part of a larger common plan of development of sale.
      R.   Street Trees. Trees or bushes shall not be planted within the public
street or road right-of-way.
   3.   Utilities. All new water supply and distribution systems and all new
sanitary sewer collection and treatment systems shall comply with the
requirements of Marion County Environmental Health Department and the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources, whether said systems are individual systems or
common systems.
      A.   Common Systems. A common water and wastewater system shall be
provided for any subdivisions or developments having lots less than three point
zero acres in size or for multiple-family dwellings, row houses, mobile home
parks, commercial uses, or industrial uses, unless specifically waived by
Marion County Environmental Health Department.
      B.   Easements. Easements shall be provided as required in Subsection 2
(J).
   4.   Blocks. The general requirements for blocks shall be as follows:
      A.   No block shall be longer than 1,320 feet, except in areas zoned
residential districts by the Zoning Code.
      B.   At street intersections, block corners shall be rounded with a
radius of not less than 25 feet; where, at any one intersection, a curve radius
has been previously established; such radius shall be used as standard.
   5.   Lots. The general requirements for lots shall be as follows:
      A.   Corner lots shall be of such width as to permit the maintenance of
all yard requirements as may be required by the Zoning Code.
      B.   Double frontage lots should be avoided except where essential to
provide separation of development from major traffic arteries or to overcome
specific disadvantages of topography.
      C.   Side lots are preferred to be at approximately right angles to the
street or radial to curved streets. Lot lines shall be straight except when
otherwise indicated by topography.
56.08 PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS.  
   The preliminary plat of a subdivision is not intended to serve as a record
plat. Its purpose is to show on a map all facts needed to enable the Commission
to determine whether the proposed layout of the land in question is
satisfactory from the standpoint of the public interest. The subdivider, owner,
or representative may call at the office of the Zoning Administrator in advance
of the preliminary plat in order to discuss the proposed subdivision and in
order to obtain information as to the requirements necessary for the approval
of the plat. The preliminary plat shall be submitted at least two weeks before
the next meeting of the Zoning Commission.
   1.   Copies. One copy and digital copy of the preliminary plat shall be
submitted to the Zoning Commission for its review.
   2.   Contents.
      A.   Name of subdivision, date, point of compass, scale, and the legal
description of the property being platted.
      B.   Name and contact information of recorded owner and developer.
      C.   Name and contact information of land surveyor and engineer.
      D.   Existing buildings, railroads, underground utilities, and other
rights-of-way.
      E.   Location, names, and widths of all existing and proposed roads,
alleys, streets, and highways in or adjoining the area being subdivided.
      F.   Location and names of adjoining subdivisions, and the names and
addresses of the owners of adjoining acreage parcels.
      G.   Proposed lot lines with approximate dimensions and the square foot
area of each lot.
      H.   Areas dedicated for public use, such as schools, parks, and
playgrounds.
      I.   Contour lines at intervals of not more than two feet.
      J.   Building setback lines.
      K.   Boundaries of the proposed subdivision shall be indicated by a heavy
line.
      L.   Zoning classification of the area.
      M.   Proposed utility service.
         (1)   Source of water supply.
         (2)   Provision for sewage disposal, drainage, and flood control.
      N.   A vicinity sketch at a legible scale showing the relationship of the
plat to its general surroundings.
      O.   
Lot numbers and the gross area, area included in the road right-of-way, and net
area shall be shown for each lot.
      P.   A table designating each lot or parcel as either buildable or for
agricultural use only.
56.09 FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Number of Copies. When the final plat of a proposed subdivision is to
be submitted to the Board of Supervisors for consideration, it must first have
been submitted and reviewed by the Zoning Commission. Three copies of the final
plat shall be required. The final plat shall be submitted at least two weeks
before the next meeting of the Zoning Commission.
   2.   Contents of Final Plat.
      A.   Name of subdivision.
      B.   Scale.
      C.   Compass point.
      D.   Curve data including delta angle, length of arc, degree of curve,
tangent.
      E.   Complete legal description of the property to be platted, including
descriptive boundaries of the subdivision.
      F.   Exact street name, location, right-of-way easement width, and
centerline of all streets within the subdivision. All streets shall be noted as
“private” unless specifically approved by the Commission or Board of
Supervisors, upon recommendation of the County Engineer, as a public street.
      G.   Easements for public and private utilities showing width and use
intended.
      H.   Building setback lines with dimensions.
      I.   Lot numbers and the gross area, area included in the road right-of-
way, and net area shall be shown for each lot.
      J.   A table designating each lot or parcel as either buildable or for
agricultural use only.
      K.   Certification of registered land surveyor and engineer.
      L.   Description and location of all permanent monuments set in the
subdivision, including accurate references to known or permanent monuments,
giving the bearing and distance from some corner of a congressional division of
Marion County. (Monumentation shall meet the requirements of Section 355.6 of
the Code of Iowa.)
      M.   The names and addresses of the owners and subdividers.
      N.   Areas dedicated for public use; such as schools, parks, and
playgrounds.
      O.   Location and names of adjoining subdivisions.
   3.   Accompanying Material.
      A.   Any protective covenants or restrictions to be imposed upon the plat
shall be submitted for review. If the subdivision includes private streets, the
covenants should address private maintenance responsibilities for said streets.
      B.   An easement to the County properly executed, for all streets
intended for public streets, and for any other property intended for public
use.
      C.   A certificate by the owner and spouse, if any, that the subdivision
is with the free consent and is in accordance with the desire of the owners.
This certificate must be signed and acknowledged by the owner and spouse before
some officer authorized to take the acknowledgments of deeds.
      D.   Performance bond, if any.
      E.   A consent and waiver to be recorded with the final plat, signed by
the property owner, for all private streets, sidewalks, or streetlights not
constructed in conformance with the minimum standards required in Section
56.07(2)(N) provided such consent and waiver was approved by the Commission at
the time of consideration of the preliminary plat and the Board at the time of
consideration of the final plat.
      F.   Where the subdivision includes public improvements, a set of plans
of record showing as constructed improvements.
   4.   Certificates. It shall be the responsibility of the owner to obtain and
submit to the County Recorder the following certificates, prior to or at the
time that the final plat is submitted for record.
      A.   From the County Treasurer that the subdivision land is free from
taxes.
      B.   Other documents as required by Section 354.11 of the Code of Iowa.
56.10 MINOR PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   To simplify the approval procedures in those subdivisions for which all
required public improvements are in place, the minor subdivision will waive the
preliminary plat procedure and requirements when the conditions of Section
56.04 and
56.05 have been met.
   2.   Upon recommendation and determination of the Zoning Administrator, with
the recommendation of the County Engineer and Environmental Health, that the
proposed subdivision meets the conditions as specified in the definition of a
minor subdivision, a developer may be permitted to proceed with a minor
subdivision.
56.11 IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
   1.   Construction Completed or Provision of Bond. Before the final plat of
any area shall be approved by the Board of Supervisors and recorded, the
subdivider shall make and install the public improvements described in this
section. In lieu of final completion of the minimum improvements before the
plat is finally approved, the subdivider may, subject to approval by the Board
of Supervisors and recommended by Zoning Commission, post a bond, approved by
the County Attorney and County Treasurer, with the Board of Supervisors, which
bond will insure to the County that the improvements will be completed by the
subdivider within one year after final approval of the plat. The amount of the
bond shall not be less than the estimated cost of the improvements and the
amount of the estimate must be approved by the County Engineer. If the
improvements are not completed within the specified time, the County may use
the bond, or any portion thereof, to complete same. For plats located in
unincorporated areas (only when the provisions of Section 354.9 of the Code of
Iowa, or current 28E agreements with the individual municipality are waived by
said jurisdiction), the Commission and Board may waive the requirements of this
section provided they are satisfied that the subdivision regulation of the city
governing the areas within which the subdivision is located are sufficient to
ensure adequate conformance with these regulations.
   2.   Minimum Improvements Required. The minimum improvements installed or
for which bond is posted, in any subdivision, before the final plat can be
approved by the Board, shall be in accordance with the following subsections:
      A.   The subdivider shall grade and improve all new private streets
between the right-of-way lines within the subdivided area prior to the
adjoining lots being sold. In no case shall a Building Permit be issued for any
lot unless the required private streets have been constructed.
      B.   All public streets, including widening and turning lanes, shall be
paved in accordance with the County’s current policy regarding “Hard Surface
Improvement of Roads,” as adopted by the Board of Supervisors.
      C.   All private streets shall be paved in accordance with the
requirements for public streets specified in Section 56.07 unless waived by the
Commission at the time of consideration of the preliminary plat.
      D.   Sidewalks, unless waived by the Commission at the time of
consideration of the preliminary plat, shall be the responsibility of the
homebuilder to construct said sidewalks in conjunction with the building permit
for each lot.
      E.   The subdivider shall, whenever necessary, grade any portion of the
property subdivided into lots so that each lot will be usable and suitable for
the erection of residences or other structures thereon.
      F.   The subdivider shall construct sanitary sewers according to the
standards and specifications of the County, and provide a connection for each
lot to the sanitary sewer. Where existing sewer outlets are not within
reasonable distance, installation of private sewer facilities or septic tanks
may be permissible and meet the requirements of the Board of Health. Where a
private sewage treatment system is proposed, the subdivider shall furnish
evidence that these facilities have been approved by the IDNR.
      G.   The subdivider shall provide, where practicable, for the
installation of water mains and fire hydrants in the subdivided area, and such
installation shall be made prior to the street pavement construction and shall
be in accordance with the standards and specifications of the County. Where a
private water supply system is proposed, the subdivider shall furnish evidence
that such a system has been approved by the IDNR. Private wells shall meet the
requirements of the Board of Health.
      H.   Storm drainage and storm sewer facilities shall be provided,
including permanent culverts or bridges of a size and design approved by the
County Engineer.
      I.   Permanent monuments shall be set at each corner of the perimeter of
the subdivision and at the corner of each block within the subdivision and at
the corner of each lot. All monuments shall be made of permanent material,
sensitive to a dip needle and at least 30 inches long and shall conform to
standard specifications of the County. The requirements of Section 355.6 of the
Code of Iowa, regarding monumentation shall also apply.
      J.   Street signs shall be required at all intersections and shall be of
the type approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      K.   Streetlights shall be installed in all subdivisions unless a
variance is granted by the Board of Supervisors and recommended by the Zoning
Commission. Streetlight location shall be shown on the utility plan provided by
the utility company.
      L.   The Board and Commission may require that all utility lines, except
electric lines of nominal voltage in excess of 15,000 volts, be installed
underground. The subdivider shall be responsible for making the necessary
arrangements with the utility companies for installation of such facilities.
Said utility lines shall be installed in such a manner so as not to interfere
with other underground utilities. Underground utility lines which cross
underneath the right-of-way of any street, alley, or way shall be installed
prior to the improvement of any such street, alley, or way in the subdivision.
Incidental appurtenances, such as transformers and their enclosures, pedestal-
mounted terminal boxes, meters and meter cabinets may be placed above ground,
but shall be located so as not to be unsightly or hazardous to the public. Such
incidental appurtenances shall be in accordance with the standards and
specifications of the County. If overhead utility lines or wires are permitted,
they shall be placed in the easements provided in the rear of the lots. In
their determination on whether or not to require underground utilities, the
Board and Commission may consider that soil, topographical, or other conditions
make such installations within the subdivision unreasonable or impractical.
   3.   Approval by Engineer.  All plans, specifications, installation, and
construction of all public improvements required by this chapter shall be
subject to review, approval, and inspection by the County Engineer, or an
authorized representative. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant and
their professionals to ensure that the plans, specifications, installation, and
construction of all private improvements conform to the requirements of this
chapter and all State and local codes.
      A.   The County may require contracts for all public improvements to be
executed on forms furnished and approved by the County Attorney and the Board
of Supervisors.
      B.   The subdivider shall furnish the County Engineer with a construction
schedule prior to commencement of any or all construction, and shall notify the
County Engineer, not less than 48 hours in advance of readiness for required
inspection. The subdivider shall reimburse the County for the costs expended
for all inspection services and tests furnished and conducted by or on behalf
of the County.
   4.   Acceptance of Public Improvements. Where any subdivision includes
public improvements that the County Engineer has recommended become public
improvements to be maintained by the County, the following shall apply:
      A.   Warranty. The subdivider shall be responsible for the installation
or construction of all improvements required by this chapter, and shall warrant
the design, materials, and workmanship of such improvements, installation, and
construction for a period of four years from and after completion. Such
warranty shall be by bond or other acceptable collateral; and shall be subject
to review by the County Attorney; shall assure the expedient repair or
replacement of defective improvements under warranty; and shall indemnify the
County from all costs or losses resulting from or contributed to such defective
improvements.
      B.   Easements. All public or private streets and utilities shall be
located within an easement dedicated for the construction, reconstruction,
expansion, and maintenance of said improvement.
      C.   Recommendation of the County Engineer. Upon completion of
construction, the County Engineer shall final inspect the public improvements
and shall report that said public improvements are in substantial conformance
to the approved plans and specifications or other County requirements and
agreements between the subdivider and the County. Any cost to conform with the
County’s requirements prior to acceptance by the County shall be the
responsibility of the subdivider or roadway owner(s).
      D.   Upon the recommendation of the County Engineer and County Attorney,
the Board of Supervisors shall act upon the subdivider’s or roadway owner’s
request for acceptance. Acceptance of the public improvements by the County
shall be by formal resolution of the Board.
56.12 FEES.  
   Before any land division or subdivision, plat of survey, preliminary plat,
final plat, or minor plat may be considered for approval by the Commission,
Board of Supervisors, Zoning Administrator or Auditor, the subdivider or agent
shall deposit with the County Treasurer a fee in an amount established, from
time to time, by the Board of Supervisors. If the land division or subdivision
is not approved, the fee is not refundable.
56.13 VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   Whenever the tract proposed to be subdivided is of such unusual topography,
size, or shape, or is surrounded by such development or unusual conditions that
the strict application of the requirements contained in these regulations would
result in substantial unnecessary hardships or injustices per the State Supreme
Court in Early vs. Board of Adjustment of Cerro Gordo County, the Board of
Supervisors, following report of the Commission, may vary or modify such
requirements so that the subdivider is allowed to develop property in a
reasonable manner, but so, at the same time, the public welfare and interest of
the County and surrounding area are protected and the general intent and spirit
of these regulations are preserved.
   1.   Validity. No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to be recorded
in the County Recorder’s office or have any validity until it has been approved
in the manner prescribed herein.
   2.   Public Improvements. The Board of Supervisors shall not permit any
public improvements over which it has control to be made from the County Road
Fund, or any County money expended for improvements or maintenance in any area
that has been subdivided or upon any street that has been dedicated after the
date of adoption of these regulations, unless such subdivision or street has
been approved in accordance with the provisions contained herein and accepted
by the Board of Supervisors as a public highway and added to the Secondary Road
System of the County. Streets within a subdivision not accepted by the Board as
public highways shall remain private roads.
   3.   Zoning Certificates. The Zoning Administrator shall not issue zoning
certificates or building permits for any structure located on a lot in any
subdivision, the plat of which has been prepared after the date of the adoption
of the ordinance codified in this chapter, but which has not been approved in
accordance with the provisions contained herein.
56.14 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   Any provisions of these regulations may be changed and amended, from time to
time, by the Board of Supervisors; provided, however, that such changes and
amendments shall not become effective until after study and report by the
Commission and until after a public hearing has been held, public notice of
which shall have been given in a newspaper of general circulation in the County
not less than four days or more than 20 days prior to such hearing.
CHAPTER 60
UTILITY LINE INSTALLATIONS
 
60.01 Purpose                            60.04 County Engineer to Administer
60.02 Definitions                        60.05 Authority to Establish
60.03 Powers of the Board of Supervisors  
 
60.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to adopt provisions for the inspection and
regulation of utility line installation, including the issuance of permits and
the collection of inspection fees, and to provide penalties for the violation
of this chapter in order to protect public safety, health, and welfare.
60.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Applicant” means a person, company, corporation, or government entity
desirous of placing a utility line on or under the County’s secondary road
system.
   2.   “Utility line” means a telecommunications, electric, gas, water, or
sewer line.
60.03 POWERS OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS.
   An applicant shall not place a utility line on or under the secondary road
system without a utility permit issued by the Board of Supervisors. An
applicant shall not place a utility line on or under the secondary road system
which violates a utility permit issued by the County. All jurisdiction and
control over the issuance of a utility permit shall rest with the Board of
Supervisors.
60.04 COUNTY ENGINEER TO ADMINISTER.
   The County Engineer may make such rules and regulations, not inconsistent
with this chapter, as are necessary to carry out the administration of this
chapter. The utility permit form, fees, and all amendments thereto, shall be
adopted by the Board of Supervisors by resolution. † 1
 
Notes
1 † EDITOR’S NOTE: The Utility Application Form is contained in the Appendix to this
  Code.
60.05 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH.
   The Board of Supervisors is empowered to establish and require a Utility
Permit under the authority of Chapters 306, 319, 320, 331, 477, 478, 479, 479A,
and 480 of the Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 61
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
 
61.01 Definitions                                61.06 Variance Procedures
61.02 Statutory Authority, Findings of Fact, and 61.07 Nonconforming Uses
Purpose
61.03 General Provisions                         61.08 Penalties for Violation
61.04 Administration                             61.09 Amendments
61.05 Floodplain Management Standards             
 
61.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   1.   “Appurtenant structure” means a structure which is on the same parcel
of the property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which
is incidental to the use of the principal structure.
   2.   “Base flood” means the flood having one percent chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year (also commonly referred to as the “100-year
flood”).
   3.   “Base flood elevation” (BFE) means the elevation floodwaters would
reach at a particular site during the occurrence of a base flood event.
   4.   “Basement” means any enclosed area of a building which has its floor or
lowest level below ground level (subgrade) on all sides. Also see “lowest
floor.”
   5.   “Board of Appeals” means the Board of Supervisors of the County.
   6.   “Development” means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations or storage
of equipment or materials. “Development” does not include minor projects or
routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities, as defined in this
section. It also does not include gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling or grading.
   7.   “Enclosed area below lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest
enclosed area in a building when all the following criteria are met:
      A.   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic
pressure during flood events with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions
of
61.05(1)(D) of this chapter; and
      B.   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, drywalled, etc.) and
used solely for low damage potential uses such as building access, parking, or
storage; and
      C.   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater, furnace,
electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at least one
foot above the base flood elevation; and
      D.   The enclosed area is not a basement, as defined in this section.
   8.   “Existing construction” means any structure for which the start of
construction commenced before the effective date of the first floodplain
management regulations adopted by the community.
   9.   “Existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the
community.
   10.   “Expansion of existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means
the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed
(including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   11.   “Factory-built home” means any structure, designed for residential use
which is wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed or assembled
in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation, on a
building site. For purposes of this chapter, factory-built homes include mobile
homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes; and also includes recreational
vehicles which are placed on a site for greater than 180 consecutive days and
not fully licensed for and ready for highway use.
   12.   “Factory-built home park or subdivision” means a parcel or contiguous
parcels of land divided into two or more factory-built home lots for sale or
lease.
   13.   “Five hundred (500) year flood” means a flood, the magnitude of which
has a two-tenths percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year
or which, on average, will be equaled or exceeded at least once every 500
years.
   14.   “Flood” means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or
rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
   15.   “Flood Insurance Rate Map” (FIRM) means the official map prepared as
part of (but published separately from) the Flood Insurance Study which
delineates both the flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community.
   16.   “Flood Insurance Study” (FIS) means a report published by FEMA for a
community issued along with the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Maps. The
study contains such background data as the base flood discharge and water
surface elevations that were used to prepare the FIRM.
   17.   “Floodplain” means any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water as a result of a flood.
   18.   “Floodplain management” means an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use of
floodplains, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans, flood
control works, floodproofing and floodplain management regulations.
   19.   “Floodproofing” means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, including utility and
sanitary facilities, which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to such
structures.
   20.   “Floodway” means the channel of a river or stream and those portions
of the floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to
carry and discharge flood waters or flood flows so that confinement of flood
flows to the floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot.
   21.   “Floodway fringe” means those portions of the Special Flood Hazard
Area outside the floodway.
   22.   “Highest adjacent grade” means the highest natural elevation of the
ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   23.   “Historic structure” means any structure that is:
      A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places,
maintained by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily determined by the
Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing of
the National Register;
      B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (1)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (2)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   24.   “Lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest enclosed area in a
building including a basement except when the criteria listed in the definition
of enclosed area below lowest floor are met.
   25.   “Maximum damage potential development” means hospitals and like
institutions; buildings or building complexes containing documents, data, or
instruments of great public value; buildings or building complexes containing
materials dangerous to the public or fuel storage facilities; power
installations needed in emergency or other buildings or building complexes
similar in nature or use.
   26.   “Minor projects” means small development activities (except for
filling, grading, and excavating) valued at less than $500.00.
   27.   “New construction” (new buildings, factory-built home parks) means
those structures or development for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the first floodplain management regulations
adopted by the community.
   28.   “New factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after
the effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by
the community.
   29.   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle which is:
      A.   Built on a single chassis;
      B.   Four hundred 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
      D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   30.   “Routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities” means
repairs necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that do
not trigger a building permit, provided they are not associated with a general
improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such repairs
include:
      A.   Normal maintenance of structures such as re-roofing, replacing
roofing tiles, and replacing siding;
      B.   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting,
cabinets, counter tops, and similar finish work;
      C.   Basement sealing;
      D.   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes;
      E.   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating, or air
conditioning systems and repairing wells or septic systems.
   31.   “Special Flood Hazard Area” (SFHA) means the land within the County
subject to the base flood. This land is identified on the County’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map as Zone A, A1-30, AE, AH, AO, AR, and A99.
   32.   “Start of construction” includes substantial improvement, and means
the date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement or permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as pouring of a slab or footings, the installation of pile, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a factory-built home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   33.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected on the ground or
attached to the ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, factories,
sheds, cabins, factory-built homes, storage tanks, grain storage facilities, or
other similar uses.
   34.   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a
structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage
condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred. Volunteer labor and donated materials shall be
included in the estimated cost of repair.
   35.   “Substantial improvement” means any improvement to a structure which
satisfies either of the following criteria:
      A.   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure taking
place during a 10-year period, the cumulative cost of which, equals or exceeds
50 percent of the market value of the structure either:
         (1)   Before the start of construction of the first improvement of the
structure; or
         (2)   If the structure has been substantially damaged and is being
restored, before the damage occurred.
      The term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a
structure to correct existing violations of State or local health, sanitary, or
safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code
enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living
conditions. The term also does not include any alteration of a historic
structure, provided the alteration will not preclude the structure’s
designation as a historic structure.
      B.   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a building
by 25 percent or more. All additions constructed after the effective date of
the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the community shall be
added to any proposed addition in determining whether the total increase in
original floor space would exceed 25 percent.
   36.   “Variance” means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of
the floodplain management regulations.
   37.   “Violation” means the failure of a structure or other development to
be fully compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
61.02 STATUTORY AUTHORITY, FINDINGS OF FACT, AND PURPOSE.
   1.   Statutory Findings. The Legislature of the State has in Chapter 364 of
the Code of Iowa, as amended, delegated the power to cities to exercise any
power and perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the
rights, privileges, and property of the County or of its residents, and to
preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and
convenience of its residents.
   2.   Findings of Fact.
      A.   The flood hazard areas of the County are subject to periodic
inundation which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare of
the community.
      B.   These flood losses, hazards, and related adverse effects are caused
by:
         (1)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood
damages which create hazardous conditions as a result of being inadequately
elevated or otherwise protected from flooding; and
         (2)   The cumulative effect of obstructions on the floodplain causing
increases in flood heights and velocities.
      C.   The ordinance codified in this chapter relies upon engineering
methodology for analyzing flood hazards which is consistent with the standards
established by the Department of Natural Resources.
   3.   Statement of Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to protect and
preserve the rights, privileges and property of the County and its residents
and to preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, and comfort and
convenience of its residents by minimizing those flood losses described in
Section
61.02(2)(A) with provisions designed to:
      A.   Reserve sufficient floodplain area for the conveyance of flood flows
so that flood heights and velocities will not be increased substantially.
      B.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities.
      C.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction or substantial improvement.
      D.   Protect individuals from buying lands which may not be suited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard.
      E.   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance
Program.
61.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   1.   Lands to Which Chapter Applies. The provisions of this chapter shall
apply to all lands and development which have significant flood hazards. The
Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) for Marion County and Incorporated Areas,
Panels 19125C0025D, 19125C0050D, 19125C0075D, 19125C0100D, 19125C0125D,
19125C0127D, 19125C0129D, 19125C0133D, 19125C0135D, 19125C0140D, 19125C0143D,
19125C0144D, 19125C0145D, 19125C0175D, 19125C0200D, 19125C0205D, 19125C0210D,
19125C0212D, 19125C0214D, 19125C0215D, 19125C0216D, 19125C0217D, 19125C0218D,
19125C0236D, 19125C0250D, 19125C0256D, 19125C0257D, 19125C0275D, 19125C0300D,
19125C0303D, 19125C0304D, 19125C0305D, 19125C0308D, 19125C0310D, 19125C0311D,
19125C0312D, 19125C0315D, 19125C0320D, 19125C0333D, 19125C0341D, 19125C0350D,
19125C0375D, 19125C0382D, 19125C0400D, 19125C0401D, 19125C0403D, 19125C0425D,
19125C0450D, 19125C0455D, 19125C0459D, 19125C0460D, 19125C0461D, 19125C0462D,
19125C0466D, 19125C0467D, 19125C0500D, dated February 16, 2018, which were
prepared as part of the Marion County Flood Insurance Study, shall be used to
identify such flood hazard areas, and all areas shown thereon to be within the
boundaries of the base flood shall be considered as having significant flood
hazards. The Flood Insurance Study for Marion County is hereby adopted by
reference and is made a part of this chapter for the purposed of administering
floodplain management regulations.
   2.   Rules for Interpretation of Flood Hazard Boundaries. The boundaries of
the Special Flood Hazard Areas shall be determined by scaling distances on the
official Flood Insurance Rate Map. When an interpretation is needed as to the
exact location of a boundary, the Floodplain Administrator shall make the
necessary interpretation. The Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals
when it is alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   3.   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be used, and no
structure shall be located, extended, converted, or structurally altered,
without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   4.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. It is not intended by this chapter
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent
with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   5.   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the provisions
of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by State statutes.
   6.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The standards required by this
chapter are considered reasonable for regulatory purposes. This chapter does
not imply that areas outside the designated Special Flood Hazard Areas will be
free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on
the part of the County or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages
that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder.
   7.   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
61.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   1.   Appointment, Duties, and Responsibilities of Administrator.
      A.   The County Engineer or desginee is hereby appointed to implement and
administer the provisions of this chapter and will herein be referred to as the
Administrator.
      B.   Duties and responsibilities of the Administrator shall include, but
not necessarily be limited to the following:
         (1)   Review all floodplain development permit applications to assure
that the provisions of this chapter will be satisfied.
         (2)   Review floodplain development applications to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from federal, State, and local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Department of
Natural Resources for floodplain construction.
         (3)   Record and maintain a record of:
            a.   The elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum
1988) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures; or
            b.   The elevation to which new or substantially improved
structures have been floodproofed.
         (4)   Notify adjacent communities, counties, and the Department of
Natural Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a
watercourse and submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
         (5)   Keep a record of all permits, appeals and such other
transactions and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this
chapter.
         (6)   Submit to the Federal Insurance Administrator an annual report
concerning the community’s participation, utilizing the annual report form
supplied by the Federal Insurance Administrator.
         (7)   Notify the Federal Insurance Administrator of any annexations or
modifications to the community’s boundaries.
         (8)   Review subdivision proposals to ensure such proposals are
consistent with the purpose of this chapter and advise the Board of Appeals of
potential conflict.
         (9)   Maintain the accuracy of the community’s Flood Insurance Rate
Maps when:
            a.   Development placed within the Floodway results in any of the
following:
               i.   An increase in the base flood elevations; or
               ii.   Alteration to the floodway boundary.
            b.   Development placed in Zones A, AE, AH, and A1-30 that does not
include a designated floodway that will cause a rise of more than one foot in
the base flood elevation; or
            c.   Development relocates or alters the channel.
      Within six months of the completion of the development, the applicant
shall submit to FEMA all scientific and technical data necessary for a Letter
of Map Revision.
         (10)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with the
standards of this chapter.
         (11)   Forward all requests for variances to the Board of Appeals for
consideration. Ensure all requests include the information ordinarily submitted
with applications, as well as any additional information deemed necessary to
the Board of Supervisors.
   2.   Floodplain Development Permit.
      A.   Permit Required. A Floodplain Development Permit issued by the
Administrator shall be secured prior to any floodplain development (any manmade
change to improved and unimproved real estate, including but not limited to
buildings or other structures, mining, filling, grading, paving, storage of
material and equipment, excavation, or drilling operations), including the
placement of factory-built homes.
      B.   Application for Permit. Application shall be made on forms furnished
by the Administrator and shall include the following:
         (1)   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is to be made.
         (2)   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done
(i.e., lot, block, track, street address, or similar description) that will
readily identify and locate the work to be done.
         (3)   Location and dimensions of all structures and additions.
         (4)   Indication of the use or occupancy for which the proposed work
is intended.
         (5)   Elevation of the base flood.
         (6)   Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988 of
the lowest floor (including basement) of structures or of the level to which a
structure is to be floodproofed.
         (7)   For structures being improved or rebuilt, the estimated cost of
improvements and market value of the structure prior to the improvements.
         (8)   Such other information as the Administrator deems reasonably
necessary (e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of this chapter.
      C.   Action on Permit Application. The Administrator shall, within a
reasonable time, make a determination as to whether the proposed floodplain
development meets the applicable standards of this chapter and shall approve or
disapprove the application. For disapprovals, the applicant shall be informed,
in writing, of the specific reasons therefor. The Administrator shall not issue
permits for variances except as directed by the Board of Appeals.
      D.   Construction and Use to Be as Provided in Application and Plans.
Floodplain Development Permits based on approved plans and applications
authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in such
approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement, or construction.
Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that authorized shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter. The applicant shall be required to submit
certification by a professional engineer or land surveyor, as appropriate,
registered in the State, that the finished fill, structure floor elevations,
floodproofing, or other flood protection measures were accomplished in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the use or occupancy
of any structure.
61.05 FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT STANDARDS.
   1.   General Floodplain Standards. All development must be consistent with
the need to minimize flood damage and meet the following applicable performance
standards. Where base flood elevations have not been provided in the Flood
Insurance Study, the Iowa Department of Natural Resources shall be contacted to
determine: (i) whether the land involved is either wholly or partly within the
floodway or floodway fringe; and (ii) the base flood elevation. The applicant
will be responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources with
sufficient technical information to make such determination. Review by the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources is not required for the proposed construction
of new or replacement bridges or culverts where: (i) the bridge or culvert is
located on a stream that drains less than two square miles; and (ii) the bridge
or culvert is not associated with a channel modification that constitutes a
channel change as specified in 567 - 71.2(1)b, Iowa Administrative Code.
      A.   All Development. All development within the Special Flood Hazard
Areas shall:
         (1)   Be designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement.
         (2)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
         (3)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage.
      B.   Residential Structures. All new or substantially improved
residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation. Construction
shall be upon compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no lower than one
foot above the base flood elevation and extend at such elevation at least 18
feet beyond the limits of any structure erected thereon. Alternate methods of
elevating (such as piers or extended foundations) may be allowed where existing
topography, street grades, or other factors preclude elevating by fill. In such
cases, the methods used must be adequate to support the structure as well as
withstand the various forces and hazards associated with flooding.
         (1)   All new residential structures located in areas that would
become isolated due to flooding of surrounding ground shall be provided with a
means of access that will be passable by wheeled vehicles during the base
flood. However, this criterion shall not apply where the Administrator
determines there is sufficient flood warning time for the protection of life
and property. When estimating flood warning time, consideration shall be given
to the criteria listed in 567-75.2(3), Iowa Administrative Code.
      C.   Nonresidential Structures. All new or substantially improved
nonresidential structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation, or together with
attendant utility and sanitary systems, be flood proofed to such a level. When
floodproofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in the State of
Iowa shall certify that the floodproofing methods used are adequate to
withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces and
other factors associated with the base flood; and that the structure, below the
base flood elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water. A record of the certification indicating the specific
elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Administrator.
      D.   All New and Substantially Improved Structures.
         (1)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (not including
basements) that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
            a.   A minimum of two openings, with positioning on at least two
walls, having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.
            b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
            c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
            d.   Such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles,
building access and low damage potential storage. Where the distance between
the floor and ceiling of the fully enclosed area below the lowest floor is five
feet or more, the applicant may be required to sign and record with the County
Recorder a Non-Conversion Agreement that ensures the lower enclosed area
remains compliant with the criteria outlined in this paragraph.
         (2)   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
         (3)   New and substantially improved structures must be constructed
with electric meter, electrical service panel box, hot water heater, heating,
air conditioning, ventilation equipment (including ductwork), and other similar
machinery and equipment elevated (or in the case of non-residential structures,
optionally floodproofed to) a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation.
         (4)   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed
with plumbing, gas lines, water meters, gas meters, and other similar service
utilities, either elevated (or, in the case of non-residential structures,
optionally floodproofed to) a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation or designed to be watertight and withstand inundation to such a
level.
      E.   
Factory-Built Homes.
         (1)   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes,
including those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions,
shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
structure is a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation.
         (2)   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes,
including those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions,
shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods
of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame
ties to ground anchors. Anchorage systems may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors as required by the State
Building Code.
      F.   Utility and Sanitary Systems.
         (1)   On-site waste disposal and water supply systems shall be located
or designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the system
during flooding.
         (2)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system
as well as the discharge of effluent into flood waters. Wastewater treatment
facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a level of flood
protection equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood elevation.
         (3)   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system. Water
supply treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with
a level of protection equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood
elevation.
         (4)   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.
      G.   Storage of Materials and Equipment. Storage of equipment and
materials that are flammable, explosive, or injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited unless elevated a minimum of one foot above the base
flood elevation. Other material and equipment must either be similarly elevated
or:
         (1)   Not subject to major flood damage and be anchored to prevent
movement due to flood waters; or
         (2)   Readily removable from the area within the time available after
flood warning.
      H.   Flood Control Structures. Flood control structural works such as
levees, flood walls, etc. shall provide, at a minimum, protection from the base
flood with a minimum of three feet of design freeboard and shall provide for
adequate interior drainage. In addition, structural flood control works shall
be approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
      I.   Watercourse Alterations. Watercourse alterations or relocations must
be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion. In addition, such alterations or relocations must be
approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
      J.   Subdivisions. Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks and
subdivisions) shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
Development associated with subdivision proposals (including the installation
of public utilities) shall meet the applicable performance standards of this
chapter. Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide all
lots with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during
the base flood. Proposals for subdivisions greater than five acres or 50 lots
(whichever is less) shall include base flood elevation data for those areas
located within the Special Flood Hazard Area.
      K.   Accessory Structures to Residential Uses.
         (1)   Detached garages, sheds, and similar structures that are
incidental to a residential use are exempt from the base flood elevation
requirements where the following criteria are satisfied.
            a.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential. Its size shall not exceed 600 square feet in size. Those portions of
the structure located less than one foot above the base flood elevation must be
constructed of flood-resistant materials.
            b.   The structure shall be used solely for low flood damage
potential purposes such as vehicle parking and limited storage. The structure
shall not be used for human habitation.
            c.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
            d.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
            e.   The structure’s service facilities such as electrical and
heating equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed to at least one foot above
the base flood elevation.
            f.   The structure’s walls shall include openings that satisfy the
provisions of Section
61.05(1)(D)(1).
         (2)   Exemption from the base flood elevation requirements for such a
structure may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance coverage of
the structure and its contents.
      L.   Recreational Vehicles.
         (1)   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the requirements of
Section
61.05(1)(E) regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built homes when the
following criteria are satisfied.
            a.   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for less
than 180 consecutive days; and
      The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for highway
use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or
jacking system and is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
         (2)   Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more than
180 consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must satisfy requirements
of Section
61.05(1)(E) regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built homes.
      A.   Pipeline Crossings. Pipeline river and stream crossings shall be
buried in the streambed and banks, or otherwise sufficiently protected to
prevent rupture due to channel degradation and meandering.
      B.   Maximum Damage Potential Development. All new or substantially
improved maximum damage potential development shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated a minimum of one foot above the elevation of the
500-year flood, or together with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be
floodproofed to such a level. When floodproofing is utilized, a professional
engineer registered in the State shall certify that the floodproofing methods
used are adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact,
and uplift forces and other factors associated with the two-tenths annual
chance flood; and that the structure, below the two-tenths annual chance flood
elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water. A record of the certification indicating the specific elevation (in
relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any structures are
flood proofed shall be maintained by the Administrator. Where two-tenths
percent chance flood elevation data has not been provided in the Flood
Insurance Study, the Iowa Department of Natural Resources shall be contacted to
compute such data. The applicant will be responsible for providing the
Department of Natural Resources with sufficient technical information to make
such determinations.
61.06 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   1.   The Board of Appeals may authorize upon request in specific cases such
variances from the terms of this chapter that will not be contrary to the
public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary hardship. Variances
granted must meet the following applicable standards.
      A.   Variances shall only be granted upon:
         (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (3)   A determination that the granting of the variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local codes or ordinances.
      B.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood would result. Consideration of
the effects of any development on flood levels shall be based upon the
assumption that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly
situated lands.
      C.   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      D.   In cases where the variance involves a lower level of flood
protection for structures than what is ordinarily required by this chapter, the
applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature of the Administrator
that:
         (1)   The issuance of a variance will result in increased premium
rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25.00 for $100.00 of
insurance coverage; and
         (2)   Such construction increases risks to life and property.
      E.   All variances granted shall have the concurrence or approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
   2.   Factors upon Which the Decision of the Board of Appeals Shall Be Based.
In passing upon applications for variances, the Board of Appeals shall consider
all relevant factors specified in other sections of this chapter and:
      A.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments.
      B.   The danger that materials may be swept on to other land or
downstream to the injury of others.
      C.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary conditions.
      D.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
      E.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the County.
      F.   The requirements of the facility for a floodplain location.
      G.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use.
      H.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
      I.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for the area.
      J.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
      K.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood water expected at the site.
      L.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems), facilities, streets, and bridges.
      M.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this
chapter.
   3.   Conditions Attached to Variances. Upon consideration of the factors
listed above, the Board of Appeals may attach such conditions to the granting
of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose of this chapter. Such
conditions may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
      A.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
      B.   Limitation of periods of use and operation.
      C.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed restrictions.
      D.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes,
levees, and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the
Department of Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative
to achieving the purpose of this chapter.
      E.   Floodproofing measures shall be designed consistent with the flood
protection elevation for the particular area, flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, and other factors associated with
the regulatory flood. The Council shall require that the applicant submit a
plan or document certified by a registered professional engineer that the
floodproofing measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection
elevation and associated flood factors for the particular area.
61.07 NONCONFORMING USES.
   1.   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of the ordinance codified in this chapter, but
which is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, may be
continued subject to the following conditions:
      A.   If such use is discontinued for six consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
      B.   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
      C.   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50
percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred, unless
it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
State or local health, sanitary, building, or safety codes or regulations, or
the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation.
   2.   Except as provided in Subsection
61.07(1)(B), any use which has been permitted as a variance shall be considered
a conforming use.
61.08 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any
of the requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates
this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon
conviction thereof be fined not more than $500.00. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the County from taking such other lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy violation.
61.09 AMENDMENTS.
   The regulations and standards set forth in this chapter may from time to
time be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed. No amendment, supplement,
change, or modification shall be undertaken without prior approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
CHAPTER 62
KNOXVILLE AIRPORT HEIGHT REGULATIONS
 
62.01 Short Title                                   62.06 Variances
62.02 Definitions                                   62.07 Board of Adjustment
62.03 Airport Zones and Airspace Height Limitations 62.08 Judicial Review
62.04 Use Restrictions                              62.09 Administrative Agency
62.05 Lighting                                       
 
62.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Knoxville Municipal
Airport Height Zoning Regulations.
62.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
   1.   “Airport” means the Knoxville Municipal Airport.
   2.   “Airport elevation” means the highest point of an airport’s usable
landing area measured in feet above mean sea level, which elevation is
established to be 932 feet.
   3.   “Airport hazard” means any structure or tree or use of land which would
exceed the federal obstruction standards as contained in 14 Code of Federal
Regulations, sections 77.21, 77.23, and 77.25 as revised March 4, 1972, and
which obstruct the airspace required for the flight of aircraft and landing or
takeoff at an airport or is otherwise hazardous to such landing or taking off
of aircraft.
   4.   “Airport primary surface” means a surface longitudinally centered on a
runway. When the runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary
surface extends 200 feet beyond each end of that runway. The width prescribed
in part 77 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) for the most precise
approach existing or planned for either end of that runway. The elevation of
any point on the primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest
point on the runway centerline.
   5.   “Airspace height” means, for the purpose of determining the height
limits in all zones set forth in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the
datum shall be mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   6.   “Control zone” means airspace extending upward from the surface of the
earth which may include one or more airports and is normally a circular area of
five statute miles in radius, with extensions where necessary to include
instrument approach and departure paths.
   7.   “Instrument runway” means a runway having an existing instrument
approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities or area type navigation
equipment, for which an instrument approach procedure has been approved or
planned.
   8.   “Minimum descent altitude” means the lowest altitude expressed in feet
above mean sea level, to which descent is authorized on final approach or
during circle-to-land maneuvering in execution of a standard instrument
approach procedure, where no electronic glide slope is provided.
   9.   “Minimum en route altitude” means the altitude in effect between radio
fixes which assures acceptable navigational signal coverage and meets
obstruction clearance requirements between those fixes.
   10.   “Minimum obstruction clearance altitude” means the specified altitude
in effect between radio fixes on VOR airways, off-airways routes, or route
segments which meets obstruction clearance requirements for the entire route
segment and which assures acceptable navigational signal coverage only within
22 miles of a VOR.
   11.   “Runway” means a defined area on an airport prepared for landing and
takeoff of aircraft along its length.
   12.   “Visual runway” means a runway intended solely for the operation of
aircraft using visual approach procedures with no straight-in instrument
approach procedure and no instrument designation indicated on an FAA approved
airport layout plan, military services approved military airport layout plan,
or by any planning document submitted to the FAA by competent authority.
62.03 AIRPORT ZONES AND AIRSPACE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   In order to carry out the provisions of this section, there are hereby
created and established certain zones which are depicted on the Knoxville
Municipal Airport Height Zoning Map. A structure located in more than one zone
of the following zones is considered to be only in the zone with the more
restrictive height limitations. The various zones are hereby established and
defined as follows:
   1.   Horizontal Zone. The land lying under a horizontal plane 150 feet above
the established elevation, the perimeter of which is constructed by swinging
arcs of 5,000 feet radii from the center of each end of the primary surface of
Runways 15, 33, 5, and 23, and connecting the adjacent arcs by lines tangent to
those arcs. No structure shall exceed 150 feet above the established airport
elevation in the horizontal zone, as depicted on the Knoxville Municipal
Airport Height Zoning Map.
   2.   Conical Zone. The land lying under a surface extending outward and
upward from the periphery of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20 to one for
a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet. No structure shall penetrate the conical
surface in the conical zone, as depicted on the Knoxville Municipal Airport
Height Zoning Map.
   3.   Approach Zone. The land lying under a surface longitudinally centered
on the extended runway centerline and extending outward and upward from each
end of the primary surface. (Note: An approach surface is applied to each end
of each runway based upon the type of approach available or planned for that
runway end.)
      A.   The inner edge of the approach surface is 500 feet wide for Runways
15 and 33 and 250 feet for Runways 5 and 23.
      B.   The outer edge of the approach zone is 2,000 feet for Runways 15 and
33 and 1,250 feet for Runways 5 and 23.
      C.   The approach zone extends for a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet at
a slope of 20 to one for Runways 15, 33, 5, and 23.
   No structure shall exceed the approach surface to any runway, as depicted on
the Knoxville Municipal Airport Height Zoning Map.
   4.   Transitional Zone. The land lying under those surfaces extending
outward and upward at right angles to the runway centerline and the runway
centerline extended at a slope of seven to one from the sides of the primary
surface and from the sides of the approach surfaces. No structure shall exceed
the transitional surface, as depicted on the Knoxville Municipal Airport Height
Zoning Map.
   5.   Increase in Elevation of Structures. No structure shall be erected in
the County that raises the published minimum descent altitude for an instrument
approach to any runway, nor shall any structure be erected that causes the
minimum obstruction clearance altitude or minimum en route altitude to be
increased on any federal airway in the County.
62.04 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of
62.03, no use may be made of land or water within the City of Knoxville or the
County in such a manner as to interfere with the operation of any airborne
aircraft. The following special requirements shall apply to each permitted use:
   1.   Lighting. All lights or illumination used in conjunction with streets,
parking, signs, or use of land and structures shall be arranged and operated in
such a manner that it is not misleading or dangerous to aircraft operating from
the Knoxville Municipal Airport or in the vicinity thereof.
   2.   Smoke and Glare. No operation from any use shall produce smoke, glare,
or other visual hazards within three statute miles of any usable runway of the
Knoxville Municipal Airport.
   3.   Electronic Interference. No operation from any use in the City of
Knoxville or the County shall produce electronic interference with navigation
signals or radio communication between the airport and aircraft.
62.05 LIGHTING.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of
62.04, the owner of any structure over 200 feet above ground level must install
on the structure lighting in accordance with Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA), Advisory Circular 70-7460-1D and amendments. Additionally, any structure
constructed after the effective date of this chapter and exceeding 949 feet
above ground level, must install on that structure high intensity white
obstruction lights in accordance with Chapter 6 of FAA Advisory Circular 7460-
1D and amendments. Any permit or variance granted may be so conditioned as to
require the owner of the structure or growth in question to permit the City of
Knoxville or the County, at its own expense, to install, operate, and maintain
thereto such markers or lights as may be necessary to indicate to pilots the
presence of an airspace hazard.
62.06 VARIANCES.
   Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any structure, or to
permit the growth of any tree, or otherwise use property in violation of any
section of this chapter, may apply to the Board of Adjustment for variance from
such regulations. No application for variance to the requirements of this
chapter may be considered by the Board of Adjustment unless a copy of the
application has been submitted to Knoxville Municipal Airport Manager for an
opinion as to the aeronautical effects of such a variance. If the Knoxville
Municipal Airport Manager does not respond to the Board of Adjustment within 15
days from receipt of the copy of the application, the Board may make its
decision to grant or deny the variance.
62.07 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   1.   Board Created. There is hereby created a Board of Adjustment to have
and exercise the following powers:
      A.   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Airport administrative agency in the enforcement of
this chapter.
      B.   To hear and decide special exemptions to the terms of this chapter
upon which such Board of Adjustment, under such regulations, may be required to
pass.
      C.   To hear and decide specific variances.
   2.   Membership. The Board of Adjustment shall consist of two members
selected by the Knoxville City Council, two members selected by the County
Board of Supervisors; and, one additional member to act as Chairperson and to
be selected by a majority vote of the four appointed members. Members shall
serve for staggered terms of five years and until successors are duly appointed
and qualified. Members shall be removable by the appointing authority for
cause, upon written charges, after a public hearing.
   3.   Rules; Meetings. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for its
governance and in harmony with the provisions of this chapter. Meetings of the
Board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as
the Board of Adjustment may determine. The Chairperson, or, in their absence,
the acting Chairperson may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses. All meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be open to the public.
The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote
of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations, and other official
actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of the Zoning
Administrator, and on due cause shown.
   4.   Powers Established by Statute. The Board of Adjustment shall have the
powers established in Section 414.12 of the Code of Iowa.
   5.   Vote of Membership. The concurring vote of a majority of the members of
the Board of Adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement,
decision, or determination of any administrative official or to decide in favor
of the applicant, on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this
chapter, or to effect variations of this chapter.
62.08 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected by any decision of the Board
of Adjustment, may appeal to the court of record as provided in the Section
414.15 of the Code of Iowa.
62.09 ADMINISTRATIVE AGENCY.
   It is the duty of the Knoxville City Manager to administer the regulations
prescribed herein. Applications for permits and variances shall be made to the
City upon a form furnished by the Clerk’s office. Applications required by this
chapter to be submitted to the administrative agency shall be promptly
considered and granted or denied. Application for action by the Board of
Adjustment shall be forthwith transmitted by the Knoxville City Manager.
CHAPTER 63
PELLA MUNICIPAL AIRPORT HEIGHT REGULATIONS
 
63.01 Short Title                     63.07 Permits
63.02 Definitions                     63.08 Enforcement
63.03 Airport Zones                   63.09 Board of Adjustment
63.04 Airport Zone Height Limitations 63.10 Appeals
63.05 Use Restrictions                63.11 Judicial Review
63.06 Nonconforming Uses               
 
63.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Pella Municipal Airport
Height Zoning Regulation.
63.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
   1.   “Airport” means the Pella Municipal Airport.
   2.   “Airport elevation” means the highest point of an airport’s usable
landing area measured in feet above mean sea level, which elevation is
established to be 880 feet.
   3.   “Airport surface” means a surface longitudinally centered on the
extended runway centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the
primary surface and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation
slope set forth in this chapter. In plan, the perimeter of the approach surface
coincides with the perimeter of the approach zone height limitation slope set
forth in this chapter.
   4.   “Approach, transitional, horizontal, and conical zones” means the zones
set forth in this chapter.
   5.   “Board of Adjustment” means the board consisting of two members from
the City of Pella, appointed by the City Council, and two members from the
County, appointed by the Marion County Board of Supervisors, and one selected
by a majority vote of the four appointed members as provided in this chapter.
   6.   “Conical surface” means a surface extending outward and upward from the
periphery of the horizontal surface at a slope of 34 to one for a horizontal
distance of 4,000 feet.
   7.   “Hazard to air navigation height” means an obstruction determined to
have a substantial adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the
navigable airspace for the purpose of determining the height limits in all
zones set forth in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be
mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   8.   “Horizontal surface” means a horizontal plane 150 feet above the
established airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides with
the perimeter of the horizontal zone.
   9.   “Larger than utility runway” means a runway that is constructed for and
intended to be used by propeller-driven aircraft of greater than 12,500 pounds
maximum gross weight and jet-powered aircraft.
   10.   “Nonconforming use” means any preexisting structure, object of natural
growth, or use of land, which is inconsistent with the provisions of this
chapter or any amendment thereto.
   11.   “Non-precision instrument runway” means a runway having an existing
instrument approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only
horizontal guidance, or area type navigation equipment, for which a straight-in
non-precision instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned.
   12.   “Obstruction” means any structure, growth, or other object, including
a mobile object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth in this chapter.
   13.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint stock association, or governmental entity; and includes a
trustee, a receiver, an assignee, or a similar representative of any of them.
   14.   “Precision instrument runway” means a runway having an existing
instrument approach procedure utilizing an Instrument Landing System (ILS) or a
Precision Approach Radar (PAR). It also means a runway for which a precision
approach system is planned and is so indicated on an approved airport layout
plan or any other planning document.
   15.   “Primary surface” means a surface longitudinally centered on a runway.
When the runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface
extends 200 feet beyond each end of that runway; when the runway has no
specially prepared hard surface, or planned hard surface, the primary surface
ends at each end of that runway. The width of the primary surface is set forth
in this chapter. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same
as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
   16.   “Runway” means a defined area on an airport prepared for landing and
takeoff of aircraft along its length.
   17.   “Structure” means an object, including a mobile object, constructed or
installed by man, including, but without limitation, buildings, towers, cranes,
smokestacks, earth formation, and overhead transmission lines.
   18.   “Transitional surface” means those surfaces which extend outward at
90-degree angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at
a slope of seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of
the primary and approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and
conical surfaces. Transitional surfaces for those portions of the precision
approach surfaces, which project through and beyond the limits of the conical
surface, extend a distance of 5,000 feet measured horizontally from the edge of
the approach surface and at 90-degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
   19.   “Tree” means any object of natural growth.
   20.   “Utility runway” means a runway that is constructed for and intended
to be used by propeller driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight
and less.
   21.   “Visual runway” means a runway intended solely for the operation of
aircraft using visual approach procedures.
63.03 AIRPORT ZONES.
   In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, there are hereby
created and established certain zones which include all of the land lying
beneath the approach surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal surfaces, and
conical surfaces as they apply to the Pella Municipal Airport. Such zones are
shown on the Pella Municipal Airport FAR Part 77 Surface map consisting of one
sheet, prepared by Clapsaddle-Garber Associates, Inc., and dated September 24,
1995, and revised September 25, 1998, which is attached to Ordinance 490 and
made a part hereof. An area located in more than one of the following zones is
considered to be only in the zone with the more restrictive height limitation.
The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows:
   1.   Larger Than Utility Runway Non-Precision Instrument Approach Zone. The
inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary
surface and is 500 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a
width of 3,500 feet at a horizontal distance 10,000 feet from the primary
surface. Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
   2.   Transitional Zones. The transitional zones are the areas beneath the
transitional surfaces.
   3.   Horizontal Zone. The horizontal zone is established by swinging arcs of
10,000 feet radii from the center of each end of the primary surface of each
runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to those arcs.
The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transitional zones.
63.04 AIRPORT ZONE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure shall be erected,
altered, or maintained, and no tree shall be erected, altered, or maintained,
and no tree shall be allowed to grow in any zone created by this chapter to a
height in excess of the applicable height limit herein established for such
zone. Such applicable height limitations are hereby established for each of the
zones in question as follows:
   1.   Utility Runway Non-Precision Instrument Approach Zone. Slopes 34 feet
outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation
as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet
along the extended runway centerline.
   2.   Transitional Zones. Slope seven feet outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and
the approach surface and extending to a height of 150 feet above the airport
elevation or at an elevation of 1,030 feet above mean sea level. In addition to
the foregoing, there are established height limits sloping seven feet outward
for each foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the
approach surface and extending to where they intersect the conical surface.
Where the precision instrument runway approach zone projects beyond the conical
zone, there are established height limits sloping seven feet outward for each
foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach
surface and extending a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet measured at 90-degree
angles to the extended runway centerline.
   3.   Horizontal Zone. Established at 150 feet above the airport elevation or
at an elevation of 1,030 feet above mean sea level.
   4.   Conical Zone. Slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward beginning at
the periphery of the horizontal zone and at 150 feet above the airport
elevation and extending to a height of 350 feet above the airport elevation.
   5.   Excepted Height Limitations. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed
as prohibiting the construction or maintenance of any structure or growth of
any tree to a height up to 50 feet above the surface of the land.
63.05 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may be made of
the land or water within any zone established by this chapter in such a manner
as to create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to
distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of
pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport,
create bird strike hazards, or otherwise in any way endanger or interfere with
the landing, takeoff, or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
63.06 NONCONFORMING USES.
   1.   Existing Structures. The regulations prescribed by this chapter shall
not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other change or
alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations of the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, or otherwise
interfere with the continuance of nonconforming use. Nothing contained herein
shall require any change in the construction, alteration, or intended use of
any structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the
effective date of such ordinance and is diligently prosecuted.
   2.   Marking and Lighting. Notwithstanding the preceding provision of this
section, the owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is hereby
required to permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such
markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Pella City Engineer to
indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the
presence of such airport obstruction. Such markers and lights shall be
installed, operated, and maintained at the expense of the City of Pella.
63.07 PERMITS.
   1.   Future Uses. Except as specifically provided in Paragraphs A, B, and C
of this subsection, no material change shall be made in the use of land, no
structure shall be erected or otherwise established, and no tree shall be
planted in any zone hereby created unless a permit therefor shall have been
applied for and granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the
purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to
permit it to be determined whether the resulting use, structure, or tree would
conform to the regulations herein prescribed. If such determination is in the
affirmative, the permit shall be granted. No permit for a use inconsistent with
the provisions of this chapter shall be granted unless a variance has been
approved in accordance with Subsection 4.
      A.   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than
75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when such tree or structure
would extend above the height limits prescribed for such zones.
      B.   In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones, but at a
horizontal distance of not less than 4,200 feet from each end of the runway, no
permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than 75 feet of
vertical height above the ground, except when such tree or structure would
extend above the height limit prescribed for such approach zones.
      C.   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones beyond
the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for any tree
or structure less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when
such tree or structure would extend above the height limit prescribed for such
transition zones.
   Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be construed as
permitting or intending to permit any construction, or alteration of any
structure, or growth of any tree in excess of any of the height limits
established by this chapter, except as set forth in this chapter.
   2.   Existing Uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an obstruction or permit a nonconforming use,
structure, or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter or any amendments
thereto, or than it is when the application for a permit is made. Except as
indicated, all applications for such a permit shall be granted.
   3.   Nonconforming Uses Abandoned or Destroyed. Whenever the Zoning
Administrator determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has been
abandoned or more than 50 percent torn down, physically deteriorated, or
decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree to
exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning
regulations.
   4.   Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any structure,
or permit the growth of any tree, or use property, not in accordance with the
regulations prescribed in this chapter, may apply to the Board of Adjustment
for a variance from such regulations. The application for variance shall be
accompanied by a determination from the Federal Aviation Administration as to
the effect of the proposal on the operation of air navigation facilities and
the safe, efficient use of navigable airspace. Such variances shall be allowed
where it is duly found that a literal application or enforcement of the
regulations will result in unnecessary hardship and relief granted, will not be
contrary to the public interest, will not create a hazard to air navigation,
will do substantial justice, and will be in accordance with the spirit of this
chapter. Additionally, no application for variance to the requirements of this
chapter may be considered by the Board of Adjustment unless a copy of the
application has been furnished to the City of Pella Airport Committee for
advice as to the aeronautical effects of the variance. If the Airport Committee
does not respond to the application within 15 days after receipt, the Board of
Adjustment may act on its own to grant or deny said application.
   5.   Obstruction Marking and Lighting. Any permit or variance granted may,
if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this chapter
and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the
owner of the structure or tree in question to install, operate, and maintain,
at the owner’s expense, such markings and lights as may be necessary. If deemed
proper by the Board of Adjustment, this condition may be modified to require
the owner to permit the City, at its own expense, to install, operate, and
maintain the necessary markings and lights.
63.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to administer and enforce
the regulations prescribed herein. Applications for permits and variances shall
be made to the Zoning Administrator upon a form published for that purpose.
Applications required by this chapter to be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator shall be promptly considered and granted or denied. The Zoning
Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Adjustment all documents
relating to an application for action by the Board of Adjustment.
63.09 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   There is hereby created a Board of Adjustment to have and exercise the
following powers:
   1.   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Zoning Administrator in the enforcement of this
chapter.
   2.   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this chapter upon
which such Board of Adjustment, under such regulations, may be required to
pass; and
   3.   To hear and decide specific variances.
   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of two members from the City of Pella,
appointed by the Pella City Council, and two members from the County, appointed
by the Board of Supervisors, and one additional member to act as Chairperson
and to be selected by a majority vote of the four appointed members. Members
shall be removable for cause by the appointing authority upon written charges
and after public hearing. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of
any member whose office becomes vacant in the same manner in which said member
was selected. The terms of the members of the Board of Adjustment shall be
staggered terms of five years. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for
its governance and procedure in harmony with the provisions of this chapter.
Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board of Adjustment may determine.
The Chairperson, or, in the absence of the Chairperson, the acting chairperson,
may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All hearings of
the Board of Adjustment shall be public. The Board of Adjustment shall keep
minutes of its proceedings showing the vote, indicating such fact, and shall
keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall
immediately be filed in the office of the Zoning Administrator and on due cause
shown. The Board of Adjustment shall make written findings of facts and
conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal
conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming, or modifying any order,
requirement, decision, or determination which comes before it under the
provisions of this chapter. The concurring vote of a majority of the members of
the Board of Adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement,
decision, or determination of the Zoning Administrator or decide in favor of
the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this
chapter or to effect variation to this chapter.
63.10 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the
Zoning Administrator made in the administration of this chapter may appeal to
the Board of Adjustment. All appeals hereunder must be taken within a
reasonable time as provided by the rules of the Board of Adjustment, by filing
with the Zoning Administrator a notice of appeal specifying the grounds
thereof. The Zoning Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the Board of
Adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed from was taken. An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board
of Adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by
reason of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in the opinion of
the Zoning Administrator, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such
case, proceedings shall not be stayed except by the order of the Board of
Adjustment on notice to the Zoning Administrator and on due cause shown. The
Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing appeals, give
public notice and due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same
within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person, or
by agent, or by attorney. The Board of Adjustment may, in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, reverse, or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify
the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may make
such order, requirement, decision, or determination as may be appropriate under
the circumstances.
63.11 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the Board
of Adjustment, may appeal to the Court of Record as provided in Chapter 414.15
of the Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 64
CEMETERY COMMISSION
 
64.01 Cemetery Commission Established 64.03 Officers
64.02 Appointment                     64.04 Powers and Duties
 
64.01 CEMETERY COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   A Cemetery Commission is hereby established to assume jurisdiction and
management of pioneer cemeteries in the County, pursuant to Section 331.325 of
the Code of Iowa.
64.02 APPOINTMENT.
   The Commission shall consist of five persons, all residents of the County,
and appointed by the Board of Supervisors for staggered terms of three years.
Their successors shall be appointed for a term of three years, and all
appointments to fill vacancies shall be for the unexpired term.
64.03 OFFICERS.
   The Commission shall select a Chairman, Vice Chairman, Secretary, Treasurer,
and such other officers as the Commission deems necessary.
64.04 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   1.   The Commission shall have the authority to establish rules and
regulations governing its organization and procedure as it shall deem
necessary.
   2.   The Commission shall have all powers and duties relating to pioneer
cemeteries which may otherwise be exercised by Township Trustees, except the
Commission shall not have the authority to certify a tax levy.
   3.   Notwithstanding Subsection 2, any pioneer cemeteries currently being
maintained by Township Trustees, or any pioneer cemeteries that in the future
the Township Trustees choose to maintain will remain under the exclusive
direction of the Township Trustees.
   4.   The Commission shall submit a proposed budget, including amount of
available funds and proposed expenditures, to the Auditor no later than January
15 of each year.
   5.   The Commissioners shall receive no compensation for their services as
such but may be reimbursed for necessary expenses incurred in the performance
of their duties.
 
