Code of Ordinances
of the
CITY OF
ORLEANS, Iowa
Prepared By: Local Government Professional Services, Inc.
DBA Iowa Codification
P. O. Box 244
114 E 5th Street
Storm Lake, Iowa 50588
(641) 355-4072
www.sc-ic.com
Adopted January 20, 2021, by Ordinance No. 209
SUPPLEMENT RECORD
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date Subject
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date     Subject
Jun-23                            210               Not Approved
          63.02; 63.04(1)         211      4-11-22  Speed Regulations
          69.08(2)                212      5-9-22   No Parking Zones
          41.14(2)                213      12-12-22 Display Fireworks
          Ch. 165                 214      1-9-23   Accessory Buildings
                                                    Use of Campgrounds in
          Ch. 165                 215      1-9-23   Agricultural Zoning
                                                    District
          90.01(3)                216      6-12-23  Water Superintendent
 
CHAPTER 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES
 
1.01 Title                  1.08 Amendments
1.02 Definitions            1.09 Catchlines and Notes
1.03 City Powers            1.10 Altering Code
1.04 Indemnity              1.11 Severability
1.05 Personal Injuries      1.12 Warrants
1.06 Rules of Construction  1.13 General Standards for Action
1.07 Extension of Authority 1.14 Standard Penalty
 
1.01 TITLE.
This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Orleans, Iowa.
1.02 DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in this Code of Ordinances are defined in the Code
of Iowa, such definitions apply to their use in this Code of Ordinances unless
such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council
or repugnant to the context of the provision. Other words and phrases used
herein have the following meanings, unless specifically defined otherwise in
another portion of this Code of Ordinances or unless such construction would be
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council or repugnant to the
context of the provision:
1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street, affording
secondary means of access to abutting property.
2.   “City” means the City of Orleans, Iowa.
3.   “Clerk” means the city clerk of Orleans, Iowa.
4.   “Code” means the specific chapter of this Code of Ordinances in which a
specific subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such as the
Building Code and/or a standard code adopted by reference).
5.   “Code of Ordinances” means the Code of Ordinances of the City of Orleans,
Iowa.
6.   “Council” means the city council of Orleans, Iowa.
7.   “County” means Dickison County, Iowa.
8.   “May” confers a power.
9.   “Measure” means an ordinance, amendment, resolution or motion.
10.   “Must” states a requirement.
11.   “Occupant” or “tenant,” applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
12.   “Ordinances” means the ordinances of the City of Orleans, Iowa, as
embodied in this Code of Ordinances, ordinances not repealed by the ordinance
adopting this Code of Ordinances, and those enacted hereafter.
13.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust or other
legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.
14.   “Public way” includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.
15.   “Shall” imposes a duty.
16.   “Sidewalk” means that surfaced portion of the street between the edge of
the traveled way, surfacing, or curb line and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
17.   “State” means the State of Iowa.
18.   “Statutes” or “laws” means the latest edition of the Code of Iowa, as
amended.
19.   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
Words that are not defined in this Code of Ordinances or by the Code of Iowa
have their ordinary meaning unless such construction would be inconsistent with
the manifest intent of the Council, or repugnant to the context of the
provision.
1.03 CITY POWERS.
The City may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if not
inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any power and
perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the rights,
privileges, and property of the City and of its residents, and to preserve and
improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and convenience of its
residents, and each and every provision of this Code of Ordinances shall be
deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and the performance of the
foregoing functions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.1)
1.04 INDEMNITY.
The applicant for any permit or license under this Code of Ordinances, by
making such application, assumes and agrees to pay for any injury to or death
of any person or persons whomsoever, and any loss of or damage to property
whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however arising
from or related to, directly, indirectly, or remotely, the issuance of the
permit or license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of such
applicant, or the agents, employees, or servants of such applicant, to abide by
or comply with any of the provisions of this Code of Ordinances or the terms
and conditions of such permit or license, and such applicant, by making such
application, forever agrees to indemnify the City and its officers, agents, and
employees, and agrees to save them harmless from any and all claims, demands,
lawsuits, or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage, injury, or death,
including all costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason of the foregoing.
The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a part of any permit or
license issued under this Code of Ordinances or any other ordinance of the
City, whether expressly recited therein or not.
1.05 PERSONAL INJURIES.
When action is brought against the City for personal injuries alleged to have
been caused by its negligence, the City may notify in writing any person by
whose negligence it claims the injury was caused. The notice shall state the
pendency of the action, the name of the plaintiff, the name and location of the
court where the action is pending, a brief statement of the alleged facts from
which the cause arose, that the City believes that the person notified is
liable to it for any judgment rendered against the City, and asking the person
to appear and defend. A judgment obtained in the suit is conclusive in any
action by the City against any person so notified, as to the existence of the
defect or other cause of the injury or damage, as to the liability of the City
to the plaintiff in the first named action, and as to the amount of the damage
or injury. The City may maintain an action against the person notified to
recover the amount of the judgment together with all the expenses incurred by
the City in the suit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.14)
1.06 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the rules of statutory
construction as set forth in Chapter 4 of the Code of Iowa shall be utilized to
ascertain the intent of the Council, with the understanding that the term
“statute” as used therein will be deemed to be synonymous with the term
“ordinance” when applied to this Code of Ordinances.
1.07 EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this Code of Ordinances, the provision shall be construed as
authorizing performance by a regular assistant, subordinate, or a duly
authorized designee of said officer or employee.
1.08 AMENDMENTS.
All ordinances that amend, repeal, or in any manner affect this Code of
Ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, subsection, or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.2)
1.09 CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code of Ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section and subsection), editor’s notes, cross references,
and State law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself,
contained in this Code of Ordinances, do not constitute any part of the law and
are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement, or clarify the contents
of a section.
1.10 ALTERING CODE.
It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this Code of Ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code of
Ordinances in any manner that will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented.
1.11 SEVERABILITY.
If any section, provision, or part of this Code of Ordinances is adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity of
this Code of Ordinances as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof
not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
1.12 WARRANTS.
If consent to enter upon or inspect any building, structure, or property
pursuant to a municipal ordinance is withheld by any person having the lawful
right to exclude, the City officer or employee having the duty to enter upon or
conduct the inspection may apply to the Iowa District Court in and for the
County, pursuant to Section 808.14 of the Code of Iowa, for an administrative
search warrant. No owner, operator or occupant, or any other person having
charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, rooming unit, structure,
building, or premises shall fail or neglect, after presentation of a search
warrant, to permit entry therein by the municipal officer or employee.
1.13 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACTION.
Whenever this Code of Ordinances grants any discretionary power to the Council
or any commission, board, or officer or employee of the City and does not
specify standards to govern the exercise of the power, the power shall be
exercised in light of the following standard: The discretionary power to grant,
deny, or revoke any matter shall be considered in light of the facts and
circumstances then existing and as may be reasonably foreseeable, and due
consideration shall be given to the impact upon the public health, safety and
welfare, and the decision shall be that of a reasonably prudent person under
similar circumstances in the exercise of the police power.
1.14 STANDARD PENALTY.
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this Code of Ordinances for
violation of any particular provision, section, or chapter, any person failing
to perform a duty required by this Code of Ordinances or otherwise violating
any provision of this Code of Ordinances or any rule or regulation adopted
herein by reference shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of at least
$65.00 but not to exceed $625.00.† 1
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[2] and 903.1[1a])
 
Notes
1 † EDITOR’S NOTE: For civil penalty for violations of this Code of Ordinances, see
  Chapter 3.
CHAPTER 2
CHARTER
 
2.01 Title                              2.04 Number and Term of Council
2.02 Form of Government                 2.05 Term of Mayor
2.03 Powers and Duties of City Officers 2.06 Copies on File
 
2.01 TITLE.
This chapter may be cited as the charter of the City of Orleans, Iowa.† 2
 
Notes
2 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 11-76 adopting a charter for the City was
  passed and approved by the Council on November 8, 1976.
2.02 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
The form of government of the City is the Mayor-Council form of government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
2.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
The Council and Mayor and other City officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by State law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the City.
2.04 NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of five Council Members elected at large for overlapping
terms of two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.05 TERM OF MAYOR.
The Mayor is elected for a term of two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.06 COPIES ON FILE.
The Clerk shall keep an official copy of the charter on file with the official
records of the Clerk and the Secretary of State, and shall keep copies of the
charter available at the Clerk’s office for public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.1)
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
 
3.01 Municipal Infraction    3.04 Civil Citations
3.02 Environmental Violation 3.05 Alternative Relief
3.03 Penalties               3.06 Alternative Penalties
 
3.01 MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
A violation of this Code of Ordinances or any ordinance or code herein adopted
by reference or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty required by
the same, with the exception of those provisions specifically provided under
State law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious misdemeanor, or
a simple misdemeanor under Chapters 687 through 747 of the Code of Iowa, is a
municipal infraction punishable by civil penalty as provided herein.† 3
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[3])
 
Notes
3 † EDITOR’S NOTE: For criminal penalty for violations of this Code of
  Ordinances, see Section 1.14.
3.02 ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATION.
A municipal infraction that is a violation of Chapter 455B of the Code of Iowa
or of a standard established by the City in consultation with the Department of
Natural Resources, or both, may be classified as an environmental violation.
However, the provisions of this section shall not be applicable until the City
has offered to participate in informal negotiations regarding the violation or
to the following specific violations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
1.   A violation arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment standard or
requirement referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8.
2.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person not engaged in the industrial
production or manufacturing of grain products.
3.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person engaged in such industrial production
or manufacturing if such discharge occurs from September 15 to January 15.
3.03 PENALTIES.
A municipal infraction is punishable by the following civil penalties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
1.   Standard Civil Penalties.
   A.   First offense – not to exceed $750.00
   B.   Each repeat offense – not to exceed $1,000.00
Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a repeat
offense.
2.   Special Civil Penalties.
   A.   A municipal infraction arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment
standard or requirement, referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8, by an industrial user
is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each day a violation
exists or continues.
   B.   A municipal infraction classified as an environmental violation is
punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each occurrence.
However, an environmental violation is not subject to such penalty if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The violation results solely from conducting an initial startup,
cleaning, repairing, performing scheduled maintenance, testing, or conducting a
shutdown of either equipment causing the violation or the equipment designed to
reduce or eliminate the violation.
      (2)   The City is notified of the violation within 24 hours from the time
that the violation begins.
      (3)   The violation does not continue in existence for more than eight
hours.
3.04 CIVIL CITATIONS.
Any officer authorized by the City to enforce this Code of Ordinances may issue
a civil citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction. A copy of the
citation may be served by personal service as provided in Rule of Civil
Procedure 1.305, by certified mail addressed to the defendant at defendant’s
last known mailing address, return receipt requested, or by publication in the
manner as provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.310 and subject to the
conditions of Rule of Civil Procedure 1.311. A copy of the citation shall be
retained by the issuing officer, and the original citation shall be sent to the
Clerk of the District Court. The citation shall serve as notification that a
civil offense has been committed and shall contain the following information:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[4])
1.   The name and address of the defendant.
2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation.
3.   The location and time of the infraction.
4.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative relief
sought, or both.
5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid.
6.   The time and place of court appearance.
7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.
8.   The legal description of the affected real property, if applicable.
If the citation affects real property and charges a violation relating to the
condition of the property, including a building code violation, a local housing
regulation violation, a housing code violation, or a public health or safety
violation, after filing the citation with the Clerk of the District Court, the
City shall also file the citation in the office of the County Treasurer.
3.05 ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.
Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not preclude the
City from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action. Such
alternative relief may include, but is not limited to, an order for abatement
or injunctive relief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[8])
3.06 ALTERNATIVE PENALTIES.
This chapter does not preclude a peace officer from issuing a criminal citation
for a violation of this Code of Ordinances or regulation if criminal penalties
are also provided for the violation. Nor does it preclude or limit the
authority of the City to enforce the provisions of this Code of Ordinances by
criminal sanctions or other lawful means.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[11])
CHAPTER 5
OPERATING PROCEDURES
 
5.01 Oaths                 5.07 Conflict of Interest
5.02 Bonds                 5.08 Resignations
5.03 Powers and Duties     5.09 Removal of Appointed Officers and Employees
5.04 Books and Records     5.10 Vacancies
5.05 Transfer to Successor 5.11 Gifts
5.06 Meetings
 
5.01 OATHS.
The oath of office shall be required and administered in accordance with the
following:
1.   Qualify for Office. Each elected or appointed officer shall qualify for
office by taking the prescribed oath and by giving, when required, a bond. The
oath shall be taken, and bond provided, after such officer is certified as
elected but not later than noon of the first day that is not a Sunday or a
legal holiday in January of the first year of the term for which the officer
was elected.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.1)
2.   Prescribed Oath. The prescribed oath is: “I, (name), do solemnly swear
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of the State of Iowa, and that I will faithfully and impartially, to the best
of my ability, discharge all duties of the office of (name of office) in
Orleans as now or hereafter required by law.”
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.10)
3.   Officers Empowered to Administer Oaths. The following are empowered to
administer oaths and to take affirmations in any matter pertaining to the
business of their respective offices:
   A.   Mayor
   B.   City Clerk
   C.   Members of all boards, commissions, or bodies created by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63A.2)
5.02 BONDS.
Surety bonds are provided in accordance with the following:
1.   Required. The Council shall provide by resolution for a surety bond or
blanket position bond running to the City and covering the Mayor, Clerk,
Treasurer, and such other officers and employees as may be necessary and
advisable.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.13)
2.   Bonds Approved. Bonds shall be approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.19)
3.   Bonds Filed. All bonds, after approval and proper record, shall be filed
with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.23[6])
4.   Record. The Clerk shall keep a book, to be known as the “Record of
Official Bonds” in which shall be recorded the official bonds of all City
officers, elective or appointive.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.24[3])
5.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
Each municipal officer shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
prescribed by law and this Code of Ordinances, or as otherwise directed by the
Council unless contrary to State law or City charter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.04 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
All books and records required to be kept by law or ordinance shall be open to
examination by the public upon request, unless some other provisions of law
expressly limit such right or require such records to be kept confidential.
Access to public records that are combined with data processing software shall
be in accordance with policies and procedures established by the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 22.2 & 22.3A)
5.05 TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR.
Each officer shall transfer to his or her successor in office all books,
papers, records, documents and property in the officer’s custody and
appertaining to that office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.06 MEETINGS.
All meetings of the Council, any board or commission, or any multi-membered
body formally and directly created by any of the foregoing bodies shall be held
in accordance with the following:
1.   Notice of Meetings. Reasonable notice, as defined by State law, of the
time, date, and place of each meeting and its tentative agenda shall be given.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4)
2.   Meetings Open. All meetings shall be held in open session unless closed
sessions are held as expressly permitted by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
3.   Minutes. Minutes shall be kept of all meetings showing the date, time and
place, the members present, and the action taken at each meeting. The minutes
shall show the results of each vote taken and information sufficient to
indicate the vote of each member present. The vote of each member present shall
be made public at the open session. The minutes shall be public records open to
public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
4.   Closed Session. A closed session may be held only by affirmative vote of
either two-thirds of the body or all of the members present at the meeting and
in accordance with Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.5)
5.   Cameras and Recorders. The public may use cameras or recording devices at
any open session.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.7)
6.   Electronic Meetings. A meeting may be conducted by electronic means only
in circumstances where such a meeting in person is impossible or impractical
and then only in compliance with the provisions of Chapter 21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8)
5.07 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
A City officer or employee shall not have an interest, direct or indirect, in
any contract or job of work or material or the profits thereof or services to
be furnished or performed for the City, unless expressly permitted by law. A
contract entered into in violation of this section is void. The provisions of
this section do not apply to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5)
1.   Compensation of Officers. The payment of lawful compensation of a City
officer or employee holding more than one City office or position, the holding
of which is not incompatible with another public office or is not prohibited by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3a])
2.   Investment of Funds. The designation of a bank or trust company as a
depository, paying agent, or for investment of funds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3b])
3.   City Treasurer. An employee of a bank or trust company, who serves as
Treasurer of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3c])
4.   Stock Interests. Contracts in which a City officer or employee has an
interest solely by reason of employment, or a stock interest of the kind
described in Subsection 8 of this section, or both, if the contracts are made
by competitive bid in writing, publicly invited and opened, or if the
remuneration of employment will not be directly affected as a result of the
contract and the duties of employment do not directly involve the procurement
or preparation of any part of the contract. The competitive bid qualification
of this subsection does not apply to a contract for professional services not
customarily awarded by competitive bid.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3e])
5.   Newspaper. The designation of an official newspaper.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3f])
6.   Existing Contracts. A contract in which a City officer or employee has an
interest if the contract was made before the time the officer or employee was
elected or appointed, but the contract may not be renewed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3g])
7.   Volunteers. Contracts with volunteer firefighters or civil defense
volunteers.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3h])
8.   Corporations. A contract with a corporation in which a City officer or
employee has an interest by reason of stock holdings when less than five
percent of the outstanding stock of the corporation is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the officer or employee or the spouse or immediate
family of such officer or employee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3i])
9.   Contracts. Contracts made by the City upon competitive bid in writing,
publicly invited and opened.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3d])
10.   Cumulative Purchases. Contracts not otherwise permitted by this section,
for the purchase of goods or services that benefit a City officer or employee,
if the purchases benefiting that officer or employee do not exceed a cumulative
total purchase price of $6,000.00 in a fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3j])
11.   Franchise Agreements. Franchise agreements between the City and a utility
and contracts entered into by the City for the provision of essential City
utility services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3k])
12.   Third Party Contracts. A contract that is a bond, note or other
obligation of the City and the contract is not acquired directly from the City
but is acquired in a transaction with a third party who may or may not be the
original underwriter, purchaser, or obligee of the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3l])
5.08 RESIGNATIONS.
An elected officer who wishes to resign may do so by submitting a resignation
in writing to the Clerk so that it shall be properly recorded and considered. A
person who resigns from an elective office is not eligible for appointment to
the same office during the time for which the person was elected if, during
that time, the compensation of the office has been increased.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[9])
5.09 REMOVAL OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
Except as otherwise provided by State or City law, all persons appointed to
City office or employment may be removed by the officer or body making the
appointment, but every such removal shall be by written order. The order shall
give the reasons, be filed in the office of the Clerk, and a copy shall be sent
by certified mail to the person removed, who, upon request filed with the Clerk
within 30 days after the date of mailing the copy, shall be granted a public
hearing before the Council on all issues connected with the removal. The
hearing shall be held within 30 days after the date the request is filed,
unless the person removed requests a later date.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.15)
5.10 VACANCIES.
A vacancy in an elective City office during a term of office shall be filled in
accordance with Section 372.13[2] of the Code of Iowa.
5.11 GIFTS.
Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 68B of the Code of Iowa, a public
official, public employee or candidate, or that person’s immediate family
member, shall not, directly or indirectly, accept or receive any gift or series
of gifts from a “restricted donor” as defined in Chapter 68B and a restricted
donor shall not, directly or indirectly, individually or jointly with one or
more other restricted donors, offer or make a gift or a series of gifts to a
public official, public employee, or candidate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 68B.22)
CHAPTER 6
CITY ELECTIONS
 
6.01 Nominating Method to Be Used 6.04 Preparation of Petition and Affidavit
6.02 Nominations by Petition      6.05 Filing; Presumption; Withdrawals;
                                  Objections
6.03 Adding Name by Petition      6.06 Persons Elected
 
6.01 NOMINATING METHOD TO BE USED.
All candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated under the
provisions of Chapter 45 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.3)
6.02 NOMINATIONS BY PETITION.
Nominations for elective municipal offices of the City may be made by
nomination paper or papers signed by not less than 10 eligible electors,
residents of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.1)
6.03 ADDING NAME BY PETITION.
The name of a candidate placed upon the ballot by any other method than by
petition shall not be added by petition for the same office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.2)
6.04 PREPARATION OF PETITION AND AFFIDAVIT.
Nomination papers shall include a petition and an affidavit of candidacy. The
petition and affidavit shall be substantially in the form prescribed by the
State Commissioner of Elections, shall include information required by the Code
of Iowa, and shall be signed in accordance with the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.3, 45.5 & 45.6)
6.05 FILING; PRESUMPTION; WITHDRAWALS; OBJECTIONS.
The time and place of filing nomination petitions, the presumption of validity
thereof, the right of a candidate so nominated to withdraw and the effect of
such withdrawal, and the right to object to the legal sufficiency of such
petitions, or to the eligibility of the candidate, shall be governed by the
appropriate provisions of Chapter 44 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.4)
6.06 PERSONS ELECTED.
The candidates who receive the greatest number of votes for each office on the
ballot are elected, to the extent necessary to fill the positions open.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.8[3])
CHAPTER 7
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
 
7.01 Purpose         7.05 Operating Budget Preparation
7.02 Finance Officer 7.06 Budget Amendments
7.03 Cash Control    7.07 Accounting
7.04 Fund Control    7.08 Financial Reports
 
7.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and provide for rules and
regulations governing the management of the financial affairs of the City.
7.02 FINANCE OFFICER.
The Clerk is the finance and accounting officer of the City and is responsible
for the administration of the provisions of this chapter.
7.03 CASH CONTROL.
To assure the proper accounting and safe custody of moneys the following shall
apply:
1.   Deposit of Funds. All moneys or fees collected for any purpose by any City
officer shall be deposited through the office of the finance officer. If any
said fees are due to an officer, they shall be paid to the officer by check
drawn by the finance officer and approved by the Council only upon such
officer’s making adequate reports relating thereto as required by law,
ordinance, or Council directive.
2.   Deposits and Investments. All moneys belonging to the City shall be
promptly deposited in depositories selected by the Council in amounts not
exceeding the authorized depository limitation established by the Council or
invested in accordance with the City’s written investment policy and State law,
including joint investments as authorized by Section 384.21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.21, 12B.10, 12C.1)
7.04 FUND CONTROL.
There shall be established and maintained separate and distinct funds in
accordance with the following:
1.   Revenues. All moneys received by the City shall be credited to the proper
fund as required by law, ordinance, or resolution.
2.   Expenditures. No disbursement shall be made from a fund unless such
disbursement is authorized by law, ordinance, or resolution, was properly
budgeted, and supported by a claim approved by the Council.
3.   Emergency Fund. No transfer may be made from any fund to the Emergency
Fund.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388], Sec. 2.5[2])
4.   Debt Service Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by State law,
moneys may be transferred from any other City fund to the Debt Service Fund to
meet payments of principal and interest. Such transfers must be authorized by
the original budget or a budget amendment.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388] Sec. 2.5[3])
5.   Capital Improvements Reserve Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by
State law, moneys may be transferred from any City fund to the Capital
Improvements Reserve Fund. Such transfers must be authorized by the original
budget or a budget amendment.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388] Sec. 2.5[4])
6.   Utility and Enterprise Funds. A surplus in a Utility or Enterprise Fund
may be transferred to any other City fund, except the Emergency Fund, by
resolution of the Council. A surplus may exist only after all required
transfers have been made to any restricted accounts in accordance with the
terms and provisions of any revenue bonds or loan agreements relating to the
Utility or Enterprise Fund. A surplus is defined as the cash balance in the
operating account or the unrestricted net position calculated in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, after adding back the net
pension and other postemployment benefits, liabilities, and the related
deferred inflows of resources and deducting the related deferred outflows of
resources, in excess of:
   A.   The amount of the expenses of disbursements for operating and
maintaining the utility or enterprise for the preceding three months; and
   B.   The amount necessary to make all required transfers to restricted
accounts for the succeeding three months.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388], Sec. 2.5[5])
7.   Balancing of Funds. Fund accounts shall be reconciled at the close of each
month and a report thereof submitted to the Council.
7.05 OPERATING BUDGET PREPARATION.
The annual operating budget of the City shall be prepared in accordance with
the following:
1.   Proposal Prepared. The finance officer is responsible for preparation of
the annual budget detail, for review by the Mayor and Council and adoption by
the Council in accordance with directives of the Mayor and Council.
2.   Boards and Commissions. All boards, commissions, and other administrative
agencies of the City that are authorized to prepare and administer budgets must
submit their budget proposals to the finance officer for inclusion in the
proposed City budget at such time and in such form as required by the Council.
3.   Submission to Council. The finance officer shall submit the completed
budget proposal to the Council each year at such time as directed by the
Council.
4.   Resolution Establishing Maximum Property Tax Dollars. The Council shall
adopt a resolution establishing the total maximum property tax dollars that may
be certified for levy that includes taxes for City government purposes under
Code of Iowa Section 384.1, for the City’s trust and agency fund under Code of
Iowa Section 384.6, Subsection 1, for the City’s emergency fund under Code of
Iowa Section 384.8, and for the levies authorized under Code of Iowa Section
384.12, Subsections 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, and 21, but excluding additions
approved at election under Code of Iowa Section 384.12, Subsection 19.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.15A)
   A.   The Council shall set a time and place for a public hearing on the
resolution before the date for adoption of the resolution and shall publish
notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days prior to the
hearing in a newspaper published at least once weekly and having general
circulation in the City.
   B.   If the City has an internet site, the notice shall also be posted and
clearly identified on the City’s internet site for public viewing beginning on
the date of the newspaper publication or public posting, as applicable.
Additionally, if the City maintains a social media account on one or more
social media applications, the public hearing notice or an electronic link to
the public hearing notice shall be posted on each such account on the same day
as the publication of the notice. All of the following shall be included in the
notice:
      (1)   The sum of the current fiscal year’s actual property taxes
certified for levy under the levies specified in this subsection and the
current fiscal year’s combined property tax levy rate for such amount that is
applicable to taxable property in the City other than property used and
assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
      (2)   The effective tax rate calculated using the sum of the current
fiscal year’s actual property taxes certified for levy under the levies
specified in this subsection, applicable to taxable property in the City other
than property used and assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
      (3)   The sum of the proposed maximum property tax dollars that may be
certified for levy for the budget year under the levies specified in this
subsection and the proposed combined property tax levy rate for such amount
applicable to taxable property in the City other than property used and
assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
      (4)   If the proposed maximum property tax dollars specified under
Subparagraph (3) exceed the current fiscal year’s actual property tax dollars
certified for levy specified in Subparagraph (1), a statement of the major
reasons for the increase.
Proof of publication shall be filed with and preserved by the County Auditor.
The Department of Management shall prescribe the form for the public hearing
notice for cities and the form for the resolution to be adopted by the Council
under Paragraph C of this subsection.
   C.   At the public hearing, the Council shall receive oral or written
objections from any resident or property owner of the City. After all
objections have been received and considered, the Council may decrease, but not
increase, the proposed maximum property tax dollar amount for inclusion in the
resolution and shall adopt the resolution and file the resolution with the
County Auditor as required under Code of Iowa Section 384.16, Subsection 3.
   D.   If the sum of the maximum property tax dollars for the budget year
specified in the resolution under the levies specified in this subsection
exceeds 102 percent of the sum of the current fiscal year’s actual property
taxes certified for levy under the levies specified in this subsection, the
Council shall be required to adopt the resolution by a two-thirds majority of
the membership of the Council.
   E.   If the City has an internet site, in addition to filing the resolution
with the Auditor under Code of Iowa Section 384.16, Subsection 3, the adopted
resolution shall be posted and clearly identified on the City’s internet site
for public viewing within 10 days of approval by the Council. The posted
resolution for a budget year shall continue to be accessible for public viewing
on the internet site along with resolutions posted for all subsequent budget
years.
5.   Council Review. The Council shall review the proposed budget and may make
any adjustments it deems appropriate in the budget before accepting such
proposal for publication, hearing, and final adoption.
6.   Notice of Hearing. Following, and not until adoption of the resolution
required under Subsection 4 of this section, the Council shall set a time and
place for public hearing on the budget to be held before March 31 and shall
publish notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days before the
hearing. A summary of the proposed budget and a description of the procedure
for protesting the City budget under Section 384.19 of the Code of Iowa, in the
form prescribed by the Director of the Department of Management, shall be
included in the notice. Proof of publication of the notice under this
subsection and a copy of the resolution adopted under Subsection 4 of this
section must be filed with the County Auditor
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[3])
6.   Copies of Budget on File. Not less than 20 days before the date that the
budget must be certified to the County Auditor and not less than 10 days before
the public hearing, the Clerk shall make available a sufficient number of
copies of the detailed budget to meet the requests of taxpayers and
organizations and have them available for distribution at the offices of the
Mayor and City Clerk and have a copy posted at one of the places designated for
the posting of notices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[2])
7.   Adoption and Certification. After the hearing, the Council shall adopt, by
resolution, a budget for at least the next fiscal year and the Clerk shall
certify the necessary tax levy for the next fiscal year to the County Auditor
and the County Board of Supervisors. The tax levy certified may be less than,
but not more than, the amount estimated in the proposed budget submitted at the
final hearing or the applicable amount specified in the resolution adopted
under Subsection 4 of this section. Two copies each of the detailed budget as
adopted and of the tax certificate must be transmitted to the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[5])
7.06 BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
A City budget finally adopted for the following fiscal year becomes effective
July 1 and constitutes the City appropriation for each program and purpose
specified therein until amended as provided by this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.18)
1.   Program Increase. Any increase in the amount appropriated to a program
must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as the
original budget.
(IAC, 545-2.2[384, 388])
2.   Program Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one program to
another must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as
the original budget.
(IAC, 545-2.3[384, 388])
3.   Activity Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one activity to
another activity within a program must be approved by resolution of the
Council.
(IAC, 545-2.4[384, 388])
4.   Administrative Transfers. The finance officer shall have the authority to
adjust, by transfer or otherwise, the appropriations allocated within a
specific activity without prior Council approval.
(IAC, 545-2.4[384, 388])
7.07 ACCOUNTING.
The accounting records of the City shall consist of not less than the
following:
1.   Books of Original Entry. There shall be established and maintained books
of original entry to provide a chronological record of cash received and
disbursed.
2.   General Ledger. There shall be established and maintained a general ledger
controlling all cash transactions, budgetary accounts and for recording
unappropriated surpluses.
3.   Checks. Two signatures are required on all City checks. Checks shall be
prenumbered and signed by any two of the following: Clerk and Mayor or Mayor
Pro Tem, following Council approval, except as provided by Subsection 5 hereof.
4.   Budget Accounts. There shall be established such individual accounts to
record receipts by source and expenditures by program and activity as will
provide adequate information and control for budgeting purposes as planned and
approved by the Council. Each individual account shall be maintained within its
proper fund and so kept that receipts can be immediately and directly compared
with revenue estimates and expenditures can be related to the authorizing
appropriation. No expenditure shall be posted except to the appropriation for
the function and purpose for which the expense was incurred.
5.   Immediate Payment Authorized. The Council may by resolution authorize the
Clerk to issue checks for immediate payment of amounts due, which if not paid
promptly would result in loss of discount, penalty for late payment or
additional interest cost. Any such payments made shall be reported to the
Council for review and approval with and in the same manner as other claims at
the next meeting following such payment. The resolution authorizing immediate
payment shall specify the type of payment so authorized and may include (but is
not limited to) payment of utility bills, contractual obligations, payroll, and
bond principal and interest.
6.   Utilities. The finance officer shall perform and be responsible for
accounting functions of the municipally owned utilities.
7.08 FINANCIAL REPORTS.
The finance officer shall prepare and file the following financial reports:
1.   Monthly Reports. There shall be submitted to the Council each month a
report showing the activity and status of each fund, program, sub-program, and
activity for the preceding month.
2.   Annual Report. Not later than December 1 of each year there shall be
published an annual report containing a summary for the preceding fiscal year
of all collections and receipts, all accounts due the City, and all
expenditures, the current public debt of the City, and the legal debt limit of
the City for the current fiscal year. A copy of the annual report must be filed
with the Auditor of State not later than December 1 of each year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.22)
CHAPTER 15
MAYOR
 
15.01 Term of Office    15.04 Compensation
15.02 Powers and Duties 15.05 Voting
15.03 Appointments
 
15.01 TERM OF OFFICE.
The Mayor is elected for a term of two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
15.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Mayor are as follows:
1.   Chief Executive Officer. Act as the chief executive officer of the City
and presiding officer of the Council, supervise all departments of the City,
give direction to department heads concerning the functions of the departments,
and have the power to examine all functions of the municipal departments, their
records and to call for special reports from department heads at any time.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
2.   Proclamation of Emergency. Have authority to take command of the police
and govern the City by proclamation, upon making a determination that a time of
emergency or public danger exists. Within the City limits, the Mayor has all
the powers conferred upon the Sheriff to suppress disorders.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[2])
3.   Special Meetings. Call special meetings of the Council when the Mayor
deems such meetings necessary to the interests of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
4.   Mayor’s Veto. Sign, veto, or take no action on an ordinance, amendment, or
resolution passed by the Council. The Mayor may veto an ordinance, amendment,
or resolution within 14 days after passage. The Mayor shall explain the reasons
for the veto in a written message to the Council at the time of the veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.5 & 380.6[2])
5.   Reports to Council. Make such oral or written reports to the Council as
required. These reports shall concern municipal affairs generally, the
municipal departments, and recommendations suitable for Council action.
6.   Negotiations. Represent the City in all negotiations properly entered into
in accordance with law or ordinance. The Mayor shall not represent the City
where this duty is specifically delegated to another officer by law, ordinance,
or Council direction.
7.   Contracts. Whenever authorized by the Council, sign contracts on behalf of
the City.
8.   Professional Services. Upon order of the Council, secure for the City such
specialized and professional services not already available to the City. In
executing the order of the Council, the Mayor shall act in accordance with this
Code of Ordinances and the laws of the State.
9.   Licenses and Permits. Sign all licenses and permits that have been granted
by the Council, except those designated by law or ordinance to be issued by
another municipal officer.
10.   Nuisances. Issue written order for removal, at public expense, any
nuisance for which no person can be found responsible and liable.
11.   Absentee Officer. Make appropriate provision that duties of any absentee
officer be carried on during such absence.
15.03 APPOINTMENTS.
The Mayor shall appoint the following officials:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
1.   Mayor Pro Tem
2.   Ad Hoc Committees as authorized by the Council.
3.   Planning and Zoning Commission, with Council approval
4.   Board of Adjustment, with Council approval
15.04 COMPENSATION.
The salary of the Mayor is $500.00 per month. † 4
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
 
Notes
4 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Effective January 1, 2020. Adopted by Ordinance 206 on August 13,
  2018..
15.05 VOTING.
The Mayor is not a member of the Council and shall not vote as a member of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
CHAPTER 16
MAYOR PRO TEM
 
16.01 Vice President of Council 16.03 Voting Rights
16.02 Powers and Duties         16.04 Compensation
 
16.01 VICE PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
The Mayor shall appoint a member of the Council as Mayor Pro Tem, who shall
serve as vice president of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
Except for the limitations otherwise provided herein, the Mayor Pro Tem shall
perform the duties of the Mayor in cases of absence or inability of the Mayor
to perform such duties. In the exercise of the duties of the office the Mayor
Pro Tem shall not have power to appoint, employ, or discharge from employment
officers or employees that the Mayor has the power to appoint, employ, or
discharge without the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.03 VOTING RIGHTS.
The Mayor Pro Tem shall have the right to vote as a member of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.04 COMPENSATION.
If the Mayor Pro Tem performs the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor’s
absence or disability for a continuous period of 15 days or more, the Mayor Pro
Tem may be paid for that period the compensation as determined by the Council,
based upon the Mayor Pro Tem’s performance of the Mayor’s duties and upon the
compensation of the Mayor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 17
CITY COUNCIL
 
17.01 Number and Term of Council 17.04 Council Meetings
17.02 Powers and Duties          17.05 Appointments
17.03 Exercise of Power          17.06 Compensation
 
17.01 NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of five Council members elected at large for overlapping
terms of two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4 & 376.2)
17.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Council include, but are not limited to the
following:
1.   General. All powers of the City are vested in the Council except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
2.   Fiscal Authority. The Council shall apportion and appropriate all funds,
and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls and claims, and order payment
thereof. It shall make all assessments for the cost of street improvements,
sidewalks, sewers and other work, improvement, or repairs that may be specially
assessed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1], 384.16 & 384.38[1])
3.   Public Improvements. The Council shall make all orders for the
construction of any improvements, bridges, or buildings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
4.   Contracts. The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts. No contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the City unless
approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 26.10)
5.   Employees. The Council shall authorize, by resolution, the number, duties,
term of office and compensation of employees or officers not otherwise provided
for by State law or the Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
6.   Setting Compensation for Elected Officers. By ordinance, the Council shall
prescribe the compensation of the Mayor, Council members, and other elected
City officers, but a change in the compensation of the Mayor does not become
effective during the term in which the change is adopted, and the Council shall
not adopt such an ordinance changing the compensation of any elected officer
during the months of November and December in the year of a regular City
election. A change in the compensation of Council members becomes effective for
all Council members at the beginning of the term of the Council members elected
at the election next following the change in compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
17.03 EXERCISE OF POWER.
The Council shall exercise a power only by the passage of a motion, a
resolution, an amendment, or an ordinance in the following manner:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[1])
1.   Action by Council. Passage of an ordinance, amendment, or resolution
requires a majority vote of all of the members of the Council. Passage of a
motion requires a majority vote of a quorum of the Council. A resolution must
be passed to spend public funds in excess of $100,000.00 on a public
improvement project, or to accept public improvements and facilities upon their
completion. Each Council member’s vote on a measure must be recorded. A measure
that fails to receive sufficient votes for passage shall be considered
defeated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.4)
2.   Overriding Mayor’s Veto. Within 30 days after the Mayor’s veto, the
Council may pass the measure again by a vote of not less than two-thirds of all
of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
3.   Measures Become Effective. Measures passed by the Council become effective
in one of the following ways:
   A.   An ordinance or amendment signed by the Mayor becomes effective when
the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a subsequent
effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1a])
   B.   A resolution signed by the Mayor becomes effective immediately upon
signing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1b])
   C.   A motion becomes effective immediately upon passage of the motion by
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1c])
   D.   If the Mayor vetoes an ordinance, amendment or resolution and the
Council repasses the measure after the Mayor’s veto, a resolution becomes
effective immediately upon repassage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes a
law when the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a
subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
   E.   If the Mayor takes no action on an ordinance, amendment or resolution,
a resolution becomes effective 14 days after the date of passage, and an
ordinance or amendment becomes law when the ordinance or a summary of the
ordinance is published, but not sooner than 14 days after the date of passage,
unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or
amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[3])
“All of the members of the Council” refers to all of the seats of the Council
including a vacant seat and a seat where the member is absent, but does not
include a seat where the Council member declines to vote by reason of a
conflict of interest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.1[a])
17.04 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
Procedures for giving notice of meetings of the Council and other provisions
regarding the conduct of Council meetings are contained in Section
5.06 of this Code of Ordinances. Additional particulars relating to Council
meetings are the following:
1.   Regular Meetings. The regular meetings of the Council are on the second
Monday of each month at 7:00 p.m, at Council Chambers at City Hall. If such day
falls on a legal holiday, the meeting is held the following day at the same
time unless a different day or time is determined by the Council.
2.   Special Meetings. Special meetings shall be held upon call of the Mayor or
upon the request of a majority of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
3.   Quorum. A majority of all Council members is a quorum.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[1])
4.   Rules of Procedure. The Council shall determine its own rules and maintain
records of its proceedings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
5.   Compelling Attendance. Any three members of the Council can compel the
attendance of the absent members at any regular, adjourned, or duly called
meeting, by serving a written notice upon the absent members to attend at once.
17.05 APPOINTMENTS.
The Council shall appoint the following officials and prescribe their powers,
duties, compensation, and term of office:
1.   City Clerk
2.   City Attorney
17.06 COMPENSATION.
The salary of each Council member is $100.00 per month. † 5
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
 
Notes
5 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Effective January 1, 2020. Adopted by Ordinance 206 on August 13,
  2018.
CHAPTER 18
CITY CLERK
 
18.01 Appointment and Compensation 18.08 Records
18.02 Powers and Duties: General   18.09 Attendance at Meetings
18.03 Publication of Minutes       18.10 Licenses and Permits
18.04 Recording Measures           18.11 Notification of Appointments
18.05 Other Publications           18.12 Elections
18.06 Authentication               18.13 City Seal
18.07 Certification
 
18.01 APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Clerk to serve for an
indefinite term. The Clerk shall receive such compensation as established by
resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3])
18.02 POWERS AND DUTIES: GENERAL.
The Clerk or, in the Clerk’s absence or inability to act, the Deputy Clerk has
the powers and duties as provided in this chapter, this Code of Ordinances, and
the law.
18.03 PUBLICATION OF MINUTES.
Within 15 days following a regular or special meeting, the Clerk shall cause
the minutes of the proceedings thereof to be published. Such publication shall
include a list of all claims allowed and a summary of all receipts and shall
show the gross amount of the claims.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[6])
18.04 RECORDING MEASURES.
The Clerk shall promptly record each measure considered by the Council and
record a statement with the measure, where applicable, indicating whether the
Mayor signed, vetoed or took no action on the measure, and whether the measure
was repassed after the Mayor’s veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[1 & 2])
18.05 OTHER PUBLICATIONS.
The Clerk shall cause to be published all ordinances, enactments, proceedings
and official notices requiring publication as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3)
1.   Time. If notice of an election, hearing, or other official action is
required by this Code of Ordinances or law, the notice must be published at
least once, not less than four or more than 20 days before the date of the
election, hearing, or other action, unless otherwise provided by law.
2.   Manner of Publication. A publication required by this Code of Ordinances
or law must be in a newspaper published at least once weekly and having general
circulation in the City.
18.06 AUTHENTICATION.
The Clerk shall authenticate all measures except motions with the Clerk’s
signature, certifying the time and manner of publication when required.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[4])
18.07 CERTIFICATION.
The Clerk shall certify all measures establishing any zoning district, building
lines, or fire limits and a plat showing the district, lines, or limits to the
recorder of the County containing the affected parts of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.11)
18.08 RECORDS.
The Clerk shall maintain the specified City records in the following manner:
1.   Ordinances and Codes. Maintain copies of all effective City ordinances and
codes for public use.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[5])
2.   Custody. Have custody and be responsible for the safekeeping of all
writings or documents in which the City is a party in interest unless otherwise
specifically directed by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
3.   Maintenance. Maintain all City records and documents, or accurate
reproductions, for at least five years except that ordinances, resolutions,
Council proceedings, records and documents, or accurate reproductions, relating
to the issuance, cancellation, transfer, redemption or replacement of public
bonds or obligations shall be kept for at least 11 years following the final
maturity of the bonds or obligations. Ordinances, resolutions, Council
proceedings, records and documents, or accurate reproductions, relating to real
property transactions shall be maintained permanently.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3 & 5])
4.   Provide Copy. Furnish upon request to any municipal officer a copy of any
record, paper or public document under the Clerk’s control when it may be
necessary to such officer in the discharge of such officer’s duty; furnish a
copy to any citizen when requested upon payment of the fee set by Council
resolution; under the direction of the Mayor or other authorized officer, affix
the seal of the City to those public documents or instruments that by this Code
of Ordinances are required to be attested by the affixing of the seal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4 & 5] and 380.7[5])
5.   Filing of Communications. Keep and file all communications and petitions
directed to the Council or to the City generally. The Clerk shall endorse
thereon the action of the Council taken upon matters considered in such
communications and petitions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.09 ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
The Clerk shall attend all regular and special Council meetings and, at the
direction of the Council, the Clerk shall attend meetings of committees,
boards, and commissions. The Clerk shall record and preserve a correct record
of the proceedings of such meetings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.10 LICENSES AND PERMITS.
The Clerk shall issue or revoke licenses and permits when authorized by this
Code of Ordinances, and keep a record of licenses and permits issued which
shall show date of issuance, license or permit number, official receipt number,
name of person to whom issued, term of license or permit, and purpose for which
issued.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.11 NOTIFICATION OF APPOINTMENTS.
The Clerk shall inform all persons appointed by the Mayor or Council to offices
in the City government of their positions and the time at which they shall
assume the duties of their offices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.12 ELECTIONS.
The Clerk shall perform the duties relating to elections in accordance with
Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa.
18.13 CITY SEAL.
The City seal is in the custody of the Clerk and shall be attached by the Clerk
to all transcripts, orders, and certificates that it may be necessary or proper
to authenticate. The City seal is circular in form, in the center of which are
the words “INCORPORATED 1895 - SEAL” and around the margin of which are the
words “THE INCORPORATED TOWN OF ORLEANS, IOWA.”
CHAPTER 19
CITY TREASURER
 
19.01 Appointment  19.03 Duties of Treasurer
19.02 Compensation
 
19.01 APPOINTMENT.
The City Clerk is the Treasurer and performs all functions required of the
position of Treasurer.
19.02 COMPENSATION.
The Clerk receives no additional compensation for performing the duties of the
Treasurer.
19.03 DUTIES OF TREASURER.
The duties of the Treasurer are as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Custody of Funds. Be responsible for the safe custody of all funds of the
City in the manner provided by law and Council direction.
2.   Record of Fund. Keep the record of each fund separate.
3.   Record Receipts. Keep an accurate record of all money or securities
received by the Treasurer on behalf of the City and specify the date, from
whom, and for what purpose received.
4.   Record Disbursements. Keep an accurate account of all disbursements,
money, or property, specifying date, to whom, and from what fund paid.
5.   Special Assessments. Keep a separate account of all money received by the
Treasurer from special assessments.
6.   Deposit Funds. Upon receipt of moneys to be held in the Treasurer’s
custody and belonging to the City, deposit the same in depositories selected by
the Council.
7.   Reconciliation. Reconcile depository statements with the Treasurer’s books
and certify monthly to the Council the balance of cash and investments of each
fund and amounts received and disbursed.
8.   Debt Service. Keep a register of all bonds outstanding and record all
payments of interest and principal.
9.   Other Duties. Perform such other duties as specified by the Council by
resolution or ordinance.
CHAPTER 20
CITY ATTORNEY
 
20.01 Appointment and Compensation 20.05 Review and Comment
20.02 Attorney for City            20.06 Provide Legal Opinion
20.03 Power of Attorney            20.07 Attendance at Council Meetings
20.04 Ordinance Preparation        20.08 Prepare Documents
 
20.01 APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Attorney to serve for an
indefinite term. The City Attorney shall receive such compensation as
established by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.02 ATTORNEY FOR CITY.
The City Attorney shall act as attorney for the City in all matters affecting
the City’s interest and appear on behalf of the City before any court,
tribunal, commission, or board. The City Attorney shall prosecute or defend all
actions and proceedings when so requested by the Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.03 POWER OF ATTORNEY.
The City Attorney shall sign the name of the City to all appeal bonds and to
all other bonds or papers of any kind that may be essential to the prosecution
of any cause in court, and when so signed the City shall be bound upon the
same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.04 ORDINANCE PREPARATION.
The City Attorney shall prepare those ordinances that the Council may desire
and direct to be prepared and report to the Council upon all such ordinances
before their final passage by the Council and publication.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.05 REVIEW AND COMMENT.
The City Attorney shall, upon request, make a report to the Council giving an
opinion on all contracts, documents, resolutions, or ordinances submitted to or
coming under the City Attorney’s notice.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.06 PROVIDE LEGAL OPINION.
The City Attorney shall give advice or a written legal opinion on City
contracts and all questions of law relating to City matters submitted by the
Mayor, Council, Clerk or the Chairman of any board.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.07 ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
The City Attorney shall attend meetings of the Council at the request of the
Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.08 PREPARE DOCUMENTS.
The City Attorney shall, upon request, formulate drafts for contracts, forms,
and other writings that may be required for the use of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
CHAPTER 23
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
 
23.01 Planning and Zoning Commission 23.04 Compensation
23.02 Term of Office                 23.05 Powers and Duties
23.03 Vacancies
 
23.01 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
The City Planning and Zoning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the
Commission, consists of five members appointed by the Council. The Commission
members shall be residents of the City and shall not hold any elective office
in the City government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6 & 392.1)
23.02 TERM OF OFFICE.
The term of office of the members of the Commission shall be five years. The
terms of not more than one-third of the members will expire in any one year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.03 VACANCIES.
If any vacancy exists on the Commission, caused by resignation or otherwise, a
successor for the residue of the term shall be appointed in the same manner as
the original appointee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.04 COMPENSATION.
All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, except their
actual expenses, which shall be subject to the approval of the Council. The
members may be paid at the discretion of the City Council as set by resolution.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Commission shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
1.   Selection of Officers. The Commission shall choose annually at its first
regular meeting one of its members to act as Chairperson and another as Vice
Chairperson, who shall perform all the duties of the Chairperson during the
Chairperson’s absence or disability.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
2.   Adopt Rules and Regulations. The Commission shall adopt such rules and
regulations governing its organization and procedure as it may deem necessary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
3.   Zoning. The Commission shall have and exercise all the powers and duties
and privileges in establishing the City zoning regulations and other related
matters and may from time to time recommend to the Council amendments,
supplements, changes or modifications, all as provided by Chapter 414 of the
Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6)
4.   Recommendations on Improvements. The design and proposed location of
public improvements shall be submitted to the Commission for its
recommendations prior to any actions being taken by the City for the
construction or placement of such improvements. Such requirements and
recommendations shall not act as a stay upon action for any such improvement if
the Commission, after 30 days’ written notice requesting such recommendations,
has failed to file the same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
5.   Review and Comment on Plats. All plans, plats, or re-plats of subdivisions
or re-subdivisions of land in the City or adjacent thereto, laid out in lots or
plats with the streets, alleys, or other portions of the same intended to be
dedicated to the public in the City, shall first be submitted to the Commission
and its recommendations obtained before approval by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
6.   Fiscal Responsibilities. The Commission shall have full, complete, and
exclusive authority to expend, for and on behalf of the City, all sums of money
appropriated to it and to use and expend all gifts, donations, or payments that
are received by the City for City planning and zoning purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
7.   Limitation on Entering Contracts. The Commission shall have no power to
contract debts beyond the amount of its original or amended appropriation as
approved by the Council for the present year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
8.   Annual Report. The Commission shall each year make a report to the Mayor
and Council of its proceedings, with a full statement of its receipts and
disbursements and the progress of its work during the preceding fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
CHAPTER 30
LAW ENFORCEMENT AND SERVICE CHARGES
 
30.01 Contract Law Enforcement 30.02 Charges for Police Services
 
30.01 CONTRACT LAW ENFORCEMENT.
The Council may contract with the County Sheriff or any other qualified lawful
entity to provide law enforcement services within the City, and the Sheriff or
such other entity shall have and exercise the powers and duties as provided in
said contract and as required by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, 28E.30)
30.02 CHARGES FOR POLICES SERVICES.
The purpose of this section is to require repayment by citizens of the City, to
the City, for payments incurred by said City for non-emergency police calls
generated by said citizens’ illegal acts and responses to alarm system alerts.
1.   Definitions. For use in this section, the following terms are defined.
   A.   “Payments incurred” means all charges assessed to the City by the
agency contracted to provide police services to said City.
   B.   “Non-emergency police calls” means calls to the agency contracted to
provide police services to the City that do not involve immediate threats to
the life, health or property of citizens of said City, and which requires
dispatching a squad car or police officer in response thereto.
   C.   “Illegal acts” means those acts of a citizen of Orleans which are
illegal as defined by the laws of the State of Iowa, or are a violation of the
ordinances of the City.
2.   Administration. Administration of this section shall be by the Clerk, or
such official as designated by the Council.
3.   Collection of Fees. The office of the Clerk is hereby authorized and
directed to bill for collection in accordance with the procedures set forth
below:
   A.   All police call collection charges shall be due to the City on the
first of the month following receipt of charges certified to the City by the
agency contracted to provide police services to said City.
   B.   If the account is not paid within 45 days after the due date, it shall
be delinquent and the Clerk shall certify to the County Auditor for collection,
in the same manner as taxes, all delinquent accounts over three months old on
April 1, each year, together with a special collection fee of $15.00 due the
City in addition to the charges for police service which are delinquent.
CHAPTER 35
FIRE DEPARTMENT
35.01 CONTRACT.  
Pursuant to Chapter 28E of the Code of Iowa, the City has entered into a
contract agreement with the Spirit Lake Benefitted Fire District for fire
protection and prevention within the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 28E.12)
CHAPTER 36
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE SPILLS
 
36.01 Purpose                     36.05 Notifications
36.02 Definitions                 36.06 Police Authority
36.03 Cleanup Required            36.07 Liability
36.04 Liability for Cleanup Costs
 
36.01 PURPOSE.
In order to reduce the danger to the public health, safety, and welfare from
the leaks and spills of hazardous substances, these regulations are promulgated
to establish responsibility for the treatment, removal and cleanup of hazardous
substance spills within the City limits.
36.02 DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Cleanup” means actions necessary to contain, collect, control, identify,
analyze, clean up, treat, disperse, remove, or dispose of a hazardous
substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[1])
2.   “Hazardous condition” means any situation involving the actual, imminent,
or probable spillage, leakage, or release of a hazardous substance onto the
land, into a water of the State, or into the atmosphere which creates an
immediate or potential danger to the public health or safety or to the
environment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[4])
3.   “Hazardous substance” means any substance or mixture of substances that
presents a danger to the public health or safety and includes, but is not
limited to, a substance that is toxic, corrosive, or flammable, or that is an
irritant or that generates pressure through decomposition, heat, or other
means. “Hazardous substance” may include any hazardous waste identified or
listed by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency under the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended by the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, or any toxic pollutant listed under
Section 307 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1,
1977, or any hazardous substance designated under Section 311 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1, 1977, or any hazardous
material designated by the Secretary of Transportation under the Hazardous
Materials Transportation Act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[5])
4.   “Responsible person” means a person who at any time produces, handles,
stores, uses, transports, refines, or disposes of a hazardous substance, the
release of which creates a hazardous condition, including bailees, carriers,
and any other person in control of a hazardous substance when a hazardous
condition occurs, whether the person owns the hazardous substance or is
operating under a lease, contract, or other agreement with the legal owner of
the hazardous substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[7])
36.03 CLEANUP REQUIRED.
Whenever a hazardous condition is created by the deposit, injection, dumping,
spilling, leaking or placing of a hazardous substance, so that the hazardous
substance or a constituent of the hazardous substance may enter the environment
or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including ground
waters, the responsible person shall cause the condition to be remedied by a
cleanup, as defined in the preceding section, as rapidly as feasible to an
acceptable, safe condition. The costs of cleanup shall be borne by the
responsible person. If the responsible person does not cause the cleanup to
begin in a reasonable time in relation to the hazard and circumstances of the
incident, the City may, by an authorized officer, give reasonable notice, based
on the character of the hazardous condition, said notice setting a deadline for
accomplishing the cleanup and stating that the City will proceed to procure
cleanup services and bill the responsible person for all costs associated with
the cleanup if the cleanup is not accomplished within the deadline. In the
event that it is determined that immediate cleanup is necessary as a result of
the present danger to the public health, safety and welfare, then no notice
shall be required and the City may proceed to procure the cleanup and bill the
responsible person for all costs associated with the cleanup. If the bill for
those services is not paid within 30 days, the City Attorney shall proceed to
obtain payment by all legal means. If the cost of the cleanup is beyond the
capacity of the City to finance it, the authorized officer shall report to the
Council and immediately seek any State or federal funds available for said
cleanup.
36.04 LIABILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS.
The responsible person shall be strictly liable to the City for all of the
following:
1.   The reasonable cleanup costs incurred by the City or the agents of the
City as a result of the failure of the responsible person to clean up a
hazardous substance involved in a hazardous condition.
2.   The reasonable costs incurred by the City or the agents of the City to
evacuate people from the area threatened by a hazardous condition caused by the
person.
3.   The reasonable damages to the City for the injury to, destruction of, or
loss of City property, including parks and roads, resulting from a hazardous
condition caused by that person, including the costs of assessing the injury,
destruction or loss.
4.   The excessive and extraordinary cost incurred by the City or the agents of
the City in responding at and to the scene of a hazardous condition caused by
that person.
36.05 NOTIFICATIONS.
1.   A person manufacturing, storing, handling, transporting, or disposing of a
hazardous substance shall notify the State Department of Natural Resources and
the Spirit Lake Police Department of the occurrence of a hazardous condition as
soon as possible but not later than six hours after the onset of the hazardous
condition or discovery of the hazardous condition. The Spirit Lake Police
Department shall immediately notify the Department of Natural Resources.
2.   Any other person who discovers a hazardous condition shall notify the
Spirit Lake Police Department which shall then notify the Department of Natural
Resources.
36.06 POLICE AUTHORITY.
If the circumstances reasonably so require, the law enforcement officer or an
authorized representative may:
1.   Evacuate persons from their homes to areas away from the site of a
hazardous condition, and
2.   Establish perimeters or other boundaries at or near the site of a
hazardous condition and limit access to cleanup personnel.
No person shall disobey an order of any law enforcement officer issued under
this section.
36.07 LIABILITY.
The City shall not be liable to any person for claims of damages, injuries, or
losses resulting from any hazardous condition, unless the City is the
responsible person as defined in Section
36.02(4).
CHAPTER 40
PUBLIC PEACE
 
40.01 Assault            40.04 Unlawful Assembly
40.02 Harassment         40.05 Failure to Disperse
40.03 Disorderly Conduct
 
40.01 ASSAULT.
No person shall, without justification, commit any of the following:
1.   Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to cause pain or injury to
another or that is intended to result in physical contact that will be
insulting or offensive to another, coupled with the apparent ability to execute
the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[1])
2.   Threat of Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to place another in
fear of immediate physical contact which will be painful, injurious, insulting,
or offensive, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[2])
An act described in Subsections 1 and 2 shall not be an assault under the
following circumstances: (i) if the person doing any of the enumerated acts,
and such other person, are voluntary participants in a sport, social or other
activity, not in itself criminal, and such act is a reasonably foreseeable
incident of such sport or activity, and does not create an unreasonable risk of
serious injury or breach of the peace; (ii) if the person doing any of the
enumerated acts is employed by a school district or accredited nonpublic
school, or is an area education agency staff member who provides services to a
school or school district, and intervenes in a fight or physical struggle or
other disruptive situation that takes place in the presence of the employee or
staff member performing employment duties in a school building, on school
grounds, or at an official school function, regardless of the location, whether
the fight or physical struggle or other disruptive situation is between
students or other individuals, if the degree and the force of the intervention
is reasonably necessary to restore order and to protect the safety of those
assembled.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1)
40.02 HARASSMENT.
No person shall commit harassment.
1.   A person commits harassment when, with intent to intimidate, annoy, or
alarm another person, the person does any of the following:
   A.   Communicates with another by telephone, telegraph, writing, or via
electronic communication without legitimate purpose and in a manner likely to
cause the other person annoyance or harm.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   B.   Places any simulated explosive or simulated incendiary device in or
near any building, vehicle, airplane, railroad engine or railroad car, or boat
occupied by the other person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   C.   Orders merchandise or services in the name of another, or to be
delivered to another, without such other person’s knowledge or consent.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   D.   Reports or causes to be reported false information to a law enforcement
authority implicating another in some criminal activity, knowing that the
information is false, or reports the alleged occurrence of a criminal act,
knowing the same did not occur.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
2.   A person commits harassment when the person, purposefully and without
legitimate purpose, has personal contact with another person, with the intent
to threaten, intimidate or alarm that other person. As used in this section,
unless the context otherwise requires, “personal contact” means an encounter in
which two or more people are in visual or physical proximity to each other.
“Personal contact” does not require a physical touching or oral communication,
although it may include these types of contacts.
40.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
No person shall do any of the following:
1.   Fighting. Engage in fighting or violent behavior in any public place or in
or near any lawful assembly of persons, provided that participants in athletic
contests may engage in such conduct that is reasonably related to that sport.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1])
2.   Noise. Make loud and raucous noise in the vicinity of any residence or
public building which causes unreasonable distress to the occupants thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[2])
3.   Abusive Language. Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture
that the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent
reaction by another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[3])
4.   Disrupt Lawful Assembly. Without lawful authority or color of authority,
disturb any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by conduct intended to
disrupt the meeting or assembly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[4])
5.   False Report of Catastrophe. By words or action, initiate or circulate a
report or warning of fire, epidemic, or other catastrophe, knowing such report
to be false or such warning to be baseless.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[5])
6.   Disrespect of Flag. Knowingly and publicly use the flag of the United
States in such a manner as to show disrespect for the flag as a symbol of the
United States, with the intent or reasonable expectation that such use will
provoke or encourage another to commit trespass or assault. As used in this
subsection:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[6])
   A.   “Deface” means to intentionally mar the external appearance.
   B.   “Defile” means to intentionally make physically unclean.
   C.   “Flag” means a piece of woven cloth or other material designed to be
flown from a pole or mast.
   D.   “Mutilate” means to intentionally cut up or alter so as to make
imperfect.
   E.   “Show disrespect” means to deface, defile, mutilate, or trample.
   F.   “Trample” means to intentionally tread upon or intentionally cause a
machine, vehicle, or animal to tread upon.
7.   Obstruct Use of Street. Without authority or justification, obstruct any
street, sidewalk, highway, or other public way, with the intent to prevent or
hinder its lawful use by others.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[7])
8.   Funeral or Memorial Service. Within 1,000 feet of the building or other
location where a funeral or memorial service is being conducted, or within
1,000 feet of a funeral procession or burial:
   A.   Make loud and raucous noise that causes unreasonable distress to the
persons attending the funeral or memorial service or participating in the
funeral procession.
   B.   Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture that the person
knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent reaction by
another.
   C.   Disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial service, funeral procession,
or burial by conduct intended to disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial
service, funeral procession, or burial.
This subsection applies to conduct within 60 minutes preceding, during, and
within 60 minutes after a funeral, memorial service, funeral procession, or
burial.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5)
40.04 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
It is unlawful for three or more persons to assemble together, with them or any
of them acting in a violent manner, and with intent that they or any of them
will commit a public offense. No person shall willingly join in or remain part
of an unlawful assembly, knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe it is
such.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.2)
40.05 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
A peace officer may order the participants in a riot or unlawful assembly or
persons in the immediate vicinity of a riot or unlawful assembly to disperse.
No person within hearing distance of such command shall refuse to obey.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.3)
CHAPTER 41
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
41.01 Distributing Dangerous Substances                  41.09 Antenna and
                                                         Radio Wires
41.02 False Reports to or Communications with Public     41.10 Barbed Wire and
Safety Entities                                          Electric Fences
41.03 Providing False Identification Information         41.11 Discharging
                                                         Weapons
41.04 Refusing to Assist Officer                         41.12 Throwing and
                                                         Shooting
41.05 Harassment of Public Officers and Employees        41.13 Urinating and
                                                         Defecating
41.06 Interference with Official Acts                    41.14 Fireworks
41.07 Removal of an Officer’s Communication or Control 41.15 Drug
Device                                                   Paraphernalia
41.08 Abandoned or Unattended Refrigerators
 
41.01 DISTRIBUTING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
No person shall distribute samples of any drugs or medicine, or any corrosive,
caustic, poisonous or other injurious substance unless the person delivers such
into the hands of a competent person, or otherwise takes reasonable precautions
that the substance will not be taken by children or animals from the place
where the substance is deposited.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.1)
41.02 FALSE REPORTS TO OR COMMUNICATIONS WITH PUBLIC SAFETY ENTITIES.
No person shall do any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.6)
1.   Report or cause to be reported false information to a fire department, a
law enforcement authority or other public safety entity, knowing that the
information is false, or report the alleged occurrence of a criminal act
knowing the act did not occur.
2.   Telephone an emergency 911 communications center, knowing that he or she
is not reporting an emergency or otherwise needing emergency information or
assistance.
3.   Knowingly provide false information to a law enforcement officer who
enters the information on a citation.
41.03 PROVIDING FALSE IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION.
No person shall knowingly provide false identification information to anyone
known by the person to be a peace officer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, in the performance of any act that is
within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, emergency
medical care provider, or firefighter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1A)
41.04 REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
Any person who is requested or ordered by any magistrate or peace officer to
render the magistrate or officer assistance in making or attempting to make an
arrest, or to prevent the commission of any criminal act, shall render
assistance as required. No person shall unreasonably and without lawful cause,
refuse or neglect to render assistance when so requested.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.2)
41.05 HARASSMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
No person shall willfully prevent or attempt to prevent any public officer or
employee from performing the officer’s or employee’s duty.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.4)
41.06 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTS.
No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct anyone known by the person to be a
peace officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider under Chapter 147A of
the Code of Iowa, or firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, or a person
performing bailiff duties pursuant to Section 602.1303[4] of the Code of Iowa,
in the performance of any act that is within the scope of the lawful duty or
authority of that officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, or person performing bailiff duties, or shall knowingly resist or
obstruct the service or execution by any authorized person of any civil or
criminal process or order of any court. The terms “resist” and “obstruct” as
used in this section do not include verbal harassment unless the verbal
harassment is accompanied by a present ability and apparent intention to
execute a verbal threat physically.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1)
41.07 REMOVAL OF AN OFFICER’S COMMUNICATION OR CONTROL DEVICE.
No person shall knowingly or intentionally remove or attempt to remove a
communication device or any device used for control from the possession of a
peace officer or correctional officer, when the officer is in the performance
of any act which is within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that
officer and the person knew or should have known the individual to be an
officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.12)
41.08 ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED REFRIGERATORS.
No person shall abandon or otherwise leave unattended any refrigerator, ice
box, or similar container, with doors that may become locked, outside of
buildings and accessible to children, nor shall any person allow any such
refrigerator, ice box, or similar container, to remain outside of buildings on
premises in the person’s possession or control, abandoned or unattended and so
accessible to children.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.3)
41.09 ANTENNA AND RADIO WIRES.
It is unlawful for a person to allow antenna wires, antenna supports, radio
wires, or television wires to exist over any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
public way, public ground, or public building without written consent of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.10 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
It is unlawful for a person to use barbed wire or electric fences to enclose
land within the City limits without the written consent of the Council unless
such land consists of 10 acres or more and is used as agricultural land.
41.11 DISCHARGING WEAPONS.
1.   It is unlawful for a person to discharge rifles, shotguns, revolvers,
pistols, guns, or other firearms of any kind within the City limits except by
written consent of the Council.
2.   No person shall intentionally discharge a firearm in a reckless manner.
41.12 THROWING AND SHOOTING.
It is unlawful for a person to throw stones, bricks, or missiles of any kind or
to shoot arrows, paintballs, rubber guns, slingshots, air rifles, BB guns, or
other dangerous instruments or toys on or into any street, alley, highway,
sidewalk, public way, public ground, or public building, without written
consent of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.13 URINATING AND DEFECATING.
It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate onto any sidewalk, street,
alley, or other public way, or onto any public or private building, including
but not limited to the wall, floor, hallway, steps, stairway, doorway, or
window thereof, or onto any public or private land.
41.14 FIREWORKS.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.2)
1.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
   A.   “Consumer fireworks” means the following fireworks, as described in
Chapter 3 of the American Pyrotechnics Association (“APA”) Standard 87-1:
      (1)   First-class consumer fireworks:
         a.   Aerial shell kits and reloadable tubes;
         b.   Chasers;
         c.   Helicopters and aerial spinners;
         d.   Firecrackers;
         e.   Mine and shell devices;
         f.   Missile-type rockets;
         g.   Roman candles;
         h.   Sky rockets and bottle rockets;
         i.   Multiple tube devices under this paragraph which are manufactured
in accordance with APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.5.
      (2)   Second-class consumer fireworks:
         a.   Cone fountains;
         b.   Cylindrical fountains;
         c.   Flitter sparklers;
         d.   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices, including multiple tube
ground and hand-held sparkling devices that are manufactured in accordance with
APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.5;
         e.   Ground spinners;
         f.   Illuminating torches;
         g.   Toy smoke devices that are not classified as novelties pursuant
to APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.2;
         h.   Wheels;
         i.   Wire or dipped sparklers that are not classified as novelties
pursuant to APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.2.
   B.   “Display fireworks” includes any explosive composition, or combination
of explosive substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration, or
detonation, and includes fireworks containing any explosive or flammable
compound, or other device containing any explosive substance. “Display
fireworks” does not include novelties or consumer fireworks enumerated in
Chapter 3 of the APA Standard 87-1.
   C.   “Novelties” includes all novelties enumerated in Chapter 3 of the APA
Standard 87-1, and that comply with the labeling regulations promulgated by the
United States Consumer Product Safety Commission.
2.   Display Fireworks. It is unlawful for any person to use or explode display
fireworks in the City of Orleans.
(Ord. 213 – Jun. 23 Supp.)
3.   Consumer Fireworks. It is unlawful for any person to use or explode
consumer fireworks within the City.
4.   Novelties. This section does not apply to novelties.
41.15 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 124.414)
1.   As used in this section “drug paraphernalia” means all equipment, products
or materials of any kind used or attempted to be used in combination with a
controlled substance, except those items used in combination with the lawful
use of a controlled substance, to knowingly or intentionally and primarily do
any of the following:
   A.   Manufacture a controlled substance.
   B.   Inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance.
   C.   Test the strength, effectiveness, or purity of a controlled substance.
   D.   Enhance the effect of a controlled substance.
Drug paraphernalia does not include hypodermic needles or syringes if
manufactured, delivered, sold, or possessed for a lawful purpose.
2.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally manufacture,
deliver, sell, or possess drug paraphernalia.
CHAPTER 42
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
 
42.01 Trespassing                       42.05 Fraud
42.02 Criminal Mischief                 42.06 Theft
42.03 Defacing Proclamations or Notices 42.07 Other Public Property Offenses
42.04 Unauthorized Entry
 
42.01 TRESPASSING.
1.   Prohibited. It is unlawful for a person to knowingly trespass upon the
property of another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.8)
2.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[1])
   A.   “Property” includes any land, dwelling, building, conveyance, vehicle,
or other temporary or permanent structure, whether publicly or privately owned.
   B.   “Public utility” is a public utility as defined in Section 476.1 of the
Code of Iowa or an electric transmission line as provided in Chapter 478 of the
Code of Iowa.
   C.   “Public utility property” means any land, dwelling, building,
conveyance, vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure owned, leased,
or operated by a public utility and that is completely enclosed by a physical
barrier of any kind.
   D.   “Railway corporation” means a corporation, company, or person owning,
leasing, or operating any railroad in whole or in part within this State.
   E.   “Railway property” means all tangible real and personal property owned,
leased, or operated by a railway corporation, with the exception of any
administrative building or offices of the railway corporation.
   F.   “Trespass” means one or more of the following acts:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2a])
      (1)   Entering upon or in property without the express permission of the
owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession with the intent to commit a
public offense or to use, remove therefrom, alter, damage, harass, or place
thereon or therein anything animate or inanimate.
      (2)   Entering or remaining upon or in property without justification
after being notified or requested to abstain from entering or to remove or
vacate therefrom by the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or the
agent or employee of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or by
any peace officer, magistrate, or public employee whose duty it is to supervise
the use or maintenance of the property.
      (3)   Entering upon or in property for the purpose or with the effect of
unduly interfering with the lawful use of the property by others.
      (4)   Being upon or in property and wrongfully using, removing therefrom,
altering, damaging, harassing, or placing thereon or therein anything animate
or inanimate, without the implied or actual permission of the owner, lessee, or
person in lawful possession.
      (5)   Entering or remaining upon or in railway property without lawful
authority or without the consent of the railway corporation which owns, leases,
or operates the railway property. This paragraph does not apply to passage over
a railroad right-of-way, other than a track, railroad roadbed, viaduct, bridge,
trestle, or railroad yard, by an unarmed person if the person has not been
notified or requested to abstain from entering onto the right-of-way or to
vacate the right-of-way and the passage over the right-of-way does not
interfere with the operation of the railroad.
      (6)   Entering or remaining upon or in public utility property without
lawful authority or without the consent of the public utility that owns,
leases, or operates the public utility property. This paragraph does not apply
to passage over public utility right-of-way by a person if the person has not
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering onto the right-of-way or to vacate the right-of-way.
3.   Specific Exceptions. “Trespass” does not mean either of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2b])
   A.   Entering upon the property of another for the sole purpose of
retrieving personal property which has accidentally or inadvertently been
thrown, fallen, strayed, or blown onto the property of another, provided that
the person retrieving the property takes the most direct and accessible route
to and from the property to be retrieved, quits the property as quickly as is
possible, and does not unduly interfere with the lawful use of the property.
This paragraph does not apply to public utility property where the person has
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering.
   B.   Entering upon the right-of-way of a public road or highway.
42.02 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
It is unlawful, for any person who has no right to do so, to intentionally
damage, deface, alter, or destroy property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.03 DEFACING PROCLAMATIONS OR NOTICES.
It is unlawful for a person intentionally to deface, obliterate, tear down, or
destroy in whole or in part, any transcript or extract from or of any law of
the United States or the State, or any proclamation, advertisement or
notification, set up at any place within the City by authority of the law or by
order of any court, during the time for which the same is to remain set up.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.04 UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.
No unauthorized person shall enter or remain in or upon any public building,
premises, or grounds in violation of any notice posted thereon or when said
building, premises or grounds are closed and not open to the public. When open
to the public, a failure to pay any required admission fee also constitutes an
unauthorized entry.
42.05 FRAUD.
It is unlawful for any person to commit a fraudulent practice as defined in
Section 714.8 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.8)
42.06 THEFT.
It is unlawful for any person to commit theft as defined in Section 714.1 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
42.07 OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other activities or conditions that are also deemed
to be public property offenses:
1.   
Chapter 105 – Solid Waste Control and Recycling
   A.   Section
105.08 – Littering Prohibited
2.   
Chapter 135 – Street Use and Maintenance
   A.   Section
135.01 – Removal of Warning Devices
   B.   Section
135.02 – Obstructing or Defacing
   C.   Section
135.03 – Placing Debris On
   D.   Section
135.04 – Playing In
   E.   Section
135.05 – Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley
   F.   Section
135.08 – Burning Prohibited
   G.   Section
135.12 – Dumping of Snow
3.   
Chapter 136 – Sidewalk Regulations
   A.   Section
136.11 – Interference with Sidewalk Improvements
   B.   Section
136.15 – Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
   C.   Section
136.16 – Defacing
   D.   Section
136.17 – Debris on Sidewalks
   E.   Section
136.18 – Merchandise Display
   F.   Section
136.19 – Sales Stands
CHAPTER 45
ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION AND INTOXICATION
 
45.01 Persons Under Legal Age 45.03 Open Containers in Motor Vehicles
45.02 Public Consumption or   45.04 Social Host
Intoxication
 
45.01 PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
As used in this section, “legal age” means 21 years of age or more.  
1.   A person or persons under legal age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase, consume, or individually or jointly have alcoholic beverages in their
possession or control; except in the case of any alcoholic beverage given or
dispensed to a person under legal age within a private home and with the
knowledge, presence and consent of the parent or guardian, for beverage or
medicinal purposes or as administered to the person by either a physician or
dentist for medicinal purposes and except to the extent that a person under
legal age may handle alcoholic beverages during the regular course of the
person’s employment by a liquor control licensee, or wine or beer permittee
under State laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47[2])
2.   A person under legal age shall not misrepresent the person’s age for the
purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic beverage from any
liquor control licensee or wine or beer permittee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[3])
45.02 PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OR INTOXICATION.
1.   As used in this section unless the context otherwise requires:
   A.   “Arrest” means the same as defined in Section 804.5 of the Code of Iowa
and includes taking into custody pursuant to Section 232.19 of the Code of
Iowa.
   B.   “Chemical test” means a test of a person’s blood, breath, or urine to
determine the percentage of alcohol present by a qualified person using devices
and methods approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
   C.   “Peace officer” means the same as defined in Section 801.4 of the Code
of Iowa.
   D.   “School” means a public or private school or that portion of a public
or private school that provides teaching for any grade from kindergarten
through grade twelve.
2.   A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor, wine or beer upon the
public streets or highways. A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor
in any public place, except premises covered by a liquor control license. A
person shall not possess or consume alcoholic liquors, wine, or beer on public
school property or while attending any public or private school-related
function. A person shall not be intoxicated in a public place.
3.   A person shall not simulate intoxication in a public place.
4.   When a peace officer arrests a person on a charge of public intoxication
under this section, the peace officer shall inform the person that the person
may have a chemical test administered at the person’s own expense. If a device
approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety for testing a sample of a
person’s breath to determine the person’s blood alcohol concentration is
available, that is the only test that need be offered the person arrested. In a
prosecution for public intoxication, evidence of the results of a chemical test
performed under this subsection is admissible upon proof of a proper
foundation. The percentage of alcohol present in a person’s blood, breath, or
urine established by the results of a chemical test performed within two hours
after the person’s arrest on a charge of public intoxication is presumed to be
the percentage of alcohol present at the time of arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.46)
45.03 OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
[See Section
62.01(6) of this Code of Ordinances.]
45.04 SOCIAL HOST.
A person who is the owner or lessee of, or who otherwise has control over,
property that is not a licensed premises shall not knowingly permit any person,
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the person to be under the age of
eighteen, to consume or possess on such property any alcoholic beverage. The
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a landlord or manager of the
property or to a person under legal age who consumes or possesses any alcoholic
beverage in connection with a religious observance, ceremony, or rite.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47)
CHAPTER 47
PARK REGULATIONS
 
47.01 Purpose                47.06 Camping
47.02 Use of Drives Required 47.07 Quiet Hours
47.03 Fires                  47.08 Vehicles and Horses in Parks
47.04 Littering              47.09 Parking
47.05 Parks Closed
 
47.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the enjoyment of park facilities
by the general public by establishing rules and regulations governing the use
of park facilities.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12)
47.02 USE OF DRIVES REQUIRED.
No person shall drive any car, cycle or other vehicle, or ride or lead any
horse, in any portion of a park except upon the established drives or roadways
therein or such other places as may be officially designated by the City.
47.03 FIRES.
No fire shall be built, except in a place designated for such purpose, and such
fire shall be extinguished before leaving the area unless it is to be
immediately used by some other party.
47.04 LITTERING.
No person shall place, deposit, or throw any waste, refuse, litter or foreign
substance in any area or receptacle except those provided for that purpose.
47.05 PARKS CLOSED.
No person, except those camping in designated areas, shall enter or remain
within any park between the hours of 10:30 P.M. - 7:00 A.M.
47.06 CAMPING.
No person shall camp in any portion of a park except in portions prescribed or
designated by the Council, and the City may refuse camping privileges or
rescind any and all camping privileges for cause.
47.07 QUIET HOURS.
The hours between 10:30 P.M. and 7:00 A.M. local time shall be quiet hours in
all City parks, camping areas and lake accesses. During quite hours, noise
shall be kept to a minimum. During quiet hours, there shall be no shouting,
yelling, singing, electronically produced sound, or activities that produce
levels of noise disturbing to nearby residents. During quiet hours, internal
combustion engines shall be operated at idle or the lowest practical speed.
47.08 VEHICLES AND HORSES IN PARKS.
It shall be unlawful to operate any motorized vehicle, including motorcycles
and snowmobiles, or to ride, or lead any horse in any City park or recreation
facility except on such roadways and trails as are designated for such usage by
the Council.
47.09 PARKING.
All vehicles shall be parked in designated parking areas, and no vehicle shall
be left unattended on any park drive, road, or street except in the case of an
emergency.
CHAPTER 50
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
 
50.01 Definition of Nuisance 50.05 Nuisance Abatement
50.02 Nuisances Enumerated   50.06 Abatement of Nuisance by Written Notice
50.03 Other Conditions       50.07 Municipal Infraction Abatement Procedure
50.04 Nuisances Prohibited
 
50.01 DEFINITION OF NUISANCE.
Whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or unreasonably offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is a
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.1)
50.02 NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions that are
deemed to be nuisances in the City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.2)
1.   Offensive Smells. Erecting, continuing, or using any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture that, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, unreasonably offensive smells, or other
annoyances, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort, or property
of individuals or the public. Effluent from a septic tank or drainage field
running or ponding on the ground in the open including in ditches.
2.   Filth or Noisome Substance. Causing or suffering any offal, filth, or
noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place to the prejudice of
others.
3.   Impeding Passage of Navigable River. Obstructing or impeding without legal
authority the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or collection of water.
4.   Water Pollution. Corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the water
of any river, stream, or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from its
natural course or state, to the injury or prejudice of others. Depositing of
any poisonous materials hazardous to animals, humans and environment in storm
drainage system.
5.   Blocking Public and Private Ways. Obstructing or encumbering, by fences,
buildings or otherwise, the public roads, private ways, streets, alleys,
commons, landing places, or burying grounds.
6.   Billboards. Billboards, signboards, and advertising signs, whether erected
and constructed on public or private property, that so obstruct and impair the
view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway, boulevard or
alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render dangerous the use
thereof. (See also Section
62.06) 
7.   Storing of Flammable Junk. Depositing or storing of flammable junk, such
as old rags, rope, cordage, rubber, bones, paper, lumber/boards (not stacked),
pallets, tires, by dealers in such articles within the fire limits of the City,
unless in a building of fireproof construction. (See also
Chapter 51) 
8.   Air Pollution. Emission of dense smoke, noxious fumes, or fly ash.
9.   Weeds, Brush. Dense growth of all weeds, vines, brush, or other vegetation
in the City so as to constitute a health, safety, or fire hazard.
10.   Dutch Elm Disease. Trees infected with Dutch elm disease. (See also
Chapter 151)
11.   Airport Air Space. Any object or structure hereafter erected within 1,000
feet of the limits of any municipal or regularly established airport or landing
place, which may endanger or obstruct aerial navigation including take-off and
landing, unless such object or structure constitutes a proper use or enjoyment
of the land on which the same is located.
12.   Houses of Ill Fame. Houses of ill fame, kept for the purpose of
prostitution and lewdness; gambling houses; places resorted to by persons
participating in criminal gang activity prohibited by Chapter 723A of the Code
of Iowa or places resorted to by persons using controlled substances, as
defined in Section 124.101 of the Code of Iowa, in violation of law, or houses
where drunkenness, quarreling, fighting or breaches of the peace are carried on
or permitted to the disturbance of others.
13.   Substandard Buildings. Any building, or portion thereof, in where there
exists any of the following listed conditions:
   A.   Deteriorated or inadequate foundations.
   B.   Defective or deteriorated flooring or floor supports.
   C.   Walls, partitions or other vertical supports that split, lean, list, or
buckle due to defective material or deterioration.
   D.   Members of ceilings, roofs, ceiling and roof supports, or other
horizontal members which sag, split or buckle due to defective material or
deterioration.
   E.   Deteriorated or ineffective water proofing or weather protection of
exterior walls, roof, foundations or floors, including broken windows or doors.
   F.   Broken, rotted, split or buckled exterior walls or roof coverings.
14.   Abandoned Objects. Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment
such as appliances, including refrigerators, freezers or similar container with
doors that may become locked and accessible to children, furniture and fixtures
not designed for outdoor use including sofas, chairs, bathtubs, sinks, toilets
and similar objects, automobiles, vehicle parts, cans, or containers.
15.   Buildings and Other Structures Rendered Structurally Unsafe. The
condition which constitutes a hazard to safety or to health as determined by
the enforcement official or his or her designee. Unsafe due to fire, casualty,
decay, or which are considered unsafe or dangerous as defined in Section 364.12
(3)(c) of the Code of Iowa.
16.   Unlawful Manufacturing of Drugs. The unlawful manufacture, formulation,
sale, distribution, and/or use of drugs, medications, devices, materials and/or
chemicals.
17.   Debris, Refuse, Rubbish, Trash. Accumulations of but not limited to:
unstacked bricks-boards-fencing-pallets-shingles, bottles, boxes, broken glass,
cans, cartons, crates, household furniture, appliances, discarded toys, iron
and other metals, junk, plumbing fixtures, rags, sawdust, straw, vehicle parts,
weeds, wire, wood and metal shavings, or any condition or item that would
prohibit the routine maintenance of the property or adversely affect the use
and habitability of nearby property and of property with the City as a whole.
Foliage and shrub clippings or cuttings, leaves, brush and fallen tree limbs or
debris, firewood not piled or stacked neatly and systematically and other yard
waste may be stored in piles in rear yard not stored on lot line and should be
stored temporarily pending disposal or when used for mulch or composting of
firewood.
18.   Construction Site Litter. The maintenance of a construction site in such
a matter that litter will be prevented from being carried by the elements to
adjoining premises.
50.03 OTHER CONDITIONS.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other conditions that are deemed to be nuisances:
1.   Junk and Junk Vehicles (See
Chapter 51)
2.   Storage and Disposal of Solid Waste (See
Chapter 105)
3.   Trees (See
Chapter 151)
50.04 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited, and a nuisance, public
or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in this chapter or State
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.3)
50.05 NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
Whenever any authorized municipal officer finds that a nuisance exists, such
officer has the authority to determine on a case-by-case basis whether to
utilize the nuisance abatement procedure described in Section
50.06 of this chapter or the municipal infraction procedure referred to in
Section
50.07. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
50.06 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY WRITTEN NOTICE.
Any nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in
this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
1.   Contents of Notice to Property Owner. The notice to abate shall contain: †
6
   A.   Description of Nuisance. A description of what constitutes the
nuisance.
   B.   Location of Nuisance. The location of the nuisance.
   C.   Acts Necessary to Abate. A statement of the act or acts necessary to
abate the nuisance.
   D.   Reasonable Time. A reasonable time within which to complete the
abatement.
   E.   Assessment of City Costs. A statement that if the nuisance or condition
is not abated as directed and no request for hearing is made within the time
prescribed, the City will abate it and assess the costs against the property
owner.
2.   Method of Service. The notice may be in the form of an ordinance or sent
by certified mail to the property owner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
3.   Request for Hearing. Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a
hearing with the Council as to whether a nuisance exists. A request for a
hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the Clerk within the time
stated in the notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that a nuisance
exists and it must be abated as ordered. The hearing will be before the Council
at a time and place fixed by the Council. The findings of the Council shall be
conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered abated
within a reasonable time under the circumstances.
4.   Abatement in Emergency. If it is determined that an emergency exists by
reason of the continuing maintenance of the nuisance or condition, the City may
perform any action that may be required under this chapter without prior
notice. The City shall assess the costs as provided in Subsection 6 of this
section after notice to the property owner under the applicable provisions of
Subsections 1 and 2, and the hearing as provided in Subsection 3.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
5.   Abatement by City. If the person notified to abate a nuisance or condition
neglects or fails to abate as directed, the City may perform the required
action to abate, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred. The
itemized expense account shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall pay such
expenses on behalf of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
6.   Collection of Costs. The Clerk shall send a statement of the total expense
incurred by certified mail to the property owner who has failed to abide by the
notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has not been paid
within one month, the Clerk shall certify the costs to the County Treasurer and
such costs shall then be collected with, and in the same manner as, general
property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
7.   Installment Payment of Cost of Abatement. If the amount expended to abate
the nuisance or condition exceeds $500.00, the City may permit the assessment
to be paid in up to 10 annual installments, to be paid in the same manner and
with the same interest rates provided for assessments against benefited
property under State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.13)
8.   Failure to Abate. Any person causing or maintaining a nuisance who shall
fail or refuse to abate or remove the same within the reasonable time required
and specified in the notice to abate is in violation of this Code of
Ordinances.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: A suggested form of notice for the abatement of nuisances is
  included in the Appendix of this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use
  of this administrative abatement procedure, particularly where cost of abatement
6 is more than minimal or where there is doubt as to whether or not a nuisance does
  in fact exist. If compliance is not secured following notice and hearings, we
  recommend you review the situation with your attorney before proceeding with
  abatement and assessment of costs. Your attorney may recommend proceedings in
  court under Chapter 657 of the Code of Iowa rather than this procedure.
50.07 MUNICIPAL INFRACTION ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
In lieu of the abatement procedures set forth in Section
50.06, the requirements of this chapter may be enforced under the procedures
applicable to municipal infractions as set forth in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 51
JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES
 
51.01 Definitions                       51.04 Exceptions
51.02 Junk and Junk Vehicles Prohibited 51.05 Notice to Abate
51.03 Junk and Junk Vehicles a Nuisance
 
51.01 DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other non-
ferrous metal; old or discarded rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste or used lumber, or salvaged wood; dismantled vehicles, machinery
and appliances or parts of such vehicles, machinery or appliances; iron, steel
or other old or scrap ferrous materials; old or discarded glass, tinware,
plastic or old or discarded household goods or hardware. Neatly stacked
firewood located on a side yard or a rear yard is not considered junk.
2.   “Junk vehicle” means any vehicle legally placed in storage with the County
Treasurer or unlicensed and having any of the following characteristics:
   A.   Broken Glass. Any vehicle with a broken or cracked windshield, window,
headlight or tail light, or any other cracked or broken glass.
   B.   Broken, Loose, or Missing Part. Any vehicle with a broken, loose, or
missing fender, door, bumper, hood, steering wheel or trunk lid.
   C.   Habitat for Nuisance Animals or Insects. Any vehicle that has become
the habitat for rats, mice, snakes, or any other vermin or insects.
   D.   Flammable Fuel. Any vehicle that contains gasoline or any other
flammable fuel.
   E.   Inoperable. Any motor vehicle that lacks an engine or two or more
wheels or other structural parts, rendering said motor vehicle totally
inoperable, or that cannot be moved under its own power or has not been used as
an operating vehicle for a period of 30 days or more.
   F.   Defective or Obsolete Condition. Any other vehicle that, because of its
defective or obsolete condition, in any other way constitutes a threat to the
public health and safety.
Mere licensing of such vehicle shall not constitute a defense to the finding
that the vehicle is a junk vehicle.
3.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which a person or property is
or may be transported or drawn upon a highway or street, except devices moved
by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and
includes without limitation a motor vehicle, automobile, truck, motorcycle,
tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery, or any combination thereof.
51.02 JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any person to store, accumulate, or allow to remain on any
private property within the corporate limits of the City any junk or junk
vehicle.
51.03 JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES A NUISANCE.
It is hereby declared that any junk or junk vehicle located upon private
property, unless excepted by Section
51.04, constitutes a threat to the health and safety of the citizens and is a
nuisance within the meaning of Section 657.1 of the Code of Iowa. If any junk
or junk vehicle is kept upon private property in violation hereof, the owner of
or person occupying the property upon which it is located shall be prima facie
liable for said violation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
51.04 EXCEPTIONS.
The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any junk or a junk vehicle
stored within:
1.   Structure. A garage or other enclosed structure; or
2.   Salvage Yard. An auto salvage yard or junk yard lawfully operated within
the City.
51.05 NOTICE TO ABATE.
Upon discovery of any junk or junk vehicle located upon private property in
violation of Section
51.03, the City shall within five days initiate abatement procedures as
outlined in
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
CHAPTER 52
LAWN MOWING
 
52.01 Purpose     52.03 Regulation
52.02 Definitions 52.04 Enforcement
 
52.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health and safety of the citizens
and to protect public and private property from an unreasonable fire hazard by
regulating the mowing of lawns.
52.02 DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
1.   “Natural Habitat” means a parcel of land in its natural state or being
returned to a natural state by allowing and promoting the growth of native
plants and vegetation for the purpose of providing an environment that
encourages the life and growth of animals or plants without restrictions. A
natural habitat shall not be nearer than 30 feet to any building or structure.
2.   “Lawn” means that portion of a parcel of land that is not a natural
habitat or a garden, and includes the street right of way lying between the
property line and the inside curb lines (or edge of traveled way where no curb
exists) of any adjacent street.
52.03 REGULATIONS.
All grass must be kept trimmed to a height of less than nine inches on all
lawns within the corporate limits of the City.
52.04 ENFORCEMENT.
If any such owner, occupant, or agent fails to comply with Section
52.03, the City shall cause a notion of such violation to be posted on the
property. If the violating condition is not abated within seven days of the
first day of posting of the notice, the City will cause the condition to be
abated and the expense incurred shall be a lien on the property. The Council
may levy and assess the reasonable costs of abatement against the parcel and
certify the same to the County Auditor to be collected in the same manner as a
property tax.
CHAPTER 55
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND CONTROL
55.01 Definitions                  55.09 Rabies Vaccination
55.02 Animal Neglect               55.10 Owner’s Duty
55.03 Livestock Neglect            55.11 Confinement
55.04 Abandonment of Cats and Dogs 55.12 At Large: Impoundment
55.05 Livestock                    55.13 Disposition of Animals
55.06 At Large Prohibited          55.14 Impounding Costs
55.07 Damage or Interference       55.15 Pet Awards Prohibited
55.08 Annoyance or Disturbance     55.16 Dead Animals
 
55.01 DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
1.   “Advertise” means to present a commercial message in any medium including
but not limited to print, radio, television, sign, display, label, tag or
articulation.
2.   “Animal” means a nonhuman vertebrate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.1)
3.   “At large” means off the premises of the owner and not under the control
of a competent person, restrained within a motor vehicle, or housed in a
veterinary hospital or kennel.
4.   “Business” means any enterprise relating to any of the following:
   A.   The sale or offer for sale of goods or services.
   B.   A recruitment for employment or membership in an organization.
   C.   A solicitation to make an investment.
   D.   An amusement or entertainment activity.
5.   “Fair” means any of the following:
   A.   The annual fair and exposition held by the Iowa State Fair Board
pursuant to Chapter 173 of the Code of Iowa or any fair event conducted by a
fair under the provisions of Chapter 174 of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   An exhibition of agricultural or manufactured products.
   C.   An event for operation of amusement rides or devices or concession
booths.
6.   “Game” means a “game of chance” or “game of skill” as defined in Section
99B.1 of the Code of Iowa.
7.   “Livestock” means an animal belonging to the bovine, caprine, equine,
ovine or porcine species, ostriches, rheas and emus; farm deer as defined in
Section 170.1 of the Code of Iowa; or poultry.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.1)
8.   “Owner” means any person owning, keeping, sheltering or harboring an
animal.
9.   “Pet” means a living dog, cat, or an animal normally maintained in a small
tank or cage in or near a residence, including but not limited to a rabbit,
gerbil, hamster, mouse, parrot, canary, mynah, finch, tropical fish, goldfish,
snake, turtle, gecko, or iguana.
55.02 ANIMAL NEGLECT.
It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines, in any place, an animal,
excluding livestock, to fail to supply the animal during confinement with a
sufficient quantity of food or water, or to fail to provide a confined dog or
cat with adequate shelter, or to torture, deprive of necessary sustenance,
mutilate, beat, or kill such animal by any means that causes unjustified pain,
distress or suffering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.3)
55.03 LIVESTOCK NEGLECT.
It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines livestock in any place to
fail to provide the livestock with care consistent with customary animal
husbandry practices or to deprive the livestock of necessary sustenance or to
injure or destroy livestock by any means that causes pain or suffering in a
manner inconsistent with customary animal husbandry practices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.2)
55.04 ABANDONMENT OF CATS AND DOGS.
A person who has ownership or custody of a cat or dog shall not abandon the cat
or dog, except the person may deliver the cat or dog to another person who will
accept ownership and custody or the person may deliver the cat or dog to an
animal shelter or pound.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.8)
55.05 LIVESTOCK.
It is unlawful for a person to keep livestock within the City except by written
consent of the Council or except in compliance with the City’s zoning
regulations.
55.06 AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any owner to allow an animal to run at large within the
corporate limits of the City.
55.07 DAMAGE OR INTERFERENCE.
It is unlawful for the owner of an animal to allow or permit such animal to
pass upon the premises of another thereby causing damage to, or interference
with, the premises.
55.08 ANNOYANCE OR DISTURBANCE.
It is unlawful for the owner of a dog to allow or permit such dog to cause
serious annoyance or disturbance to any person by frequent and habitual
howling, yelping, barking, or otherwise, or by running after or chasing
persons, bicycles, automobiles or other vehicles.
55.09 RABIES VACCINATION.
Every owner of a dog shall obtain a rabies vaccination for such animal. It is
unlawful for any person to own or have a dog in said person’s possession, six
months of age or over, which has not been vaccinated against rabies. Dogs kept
in State or federally licensed kennels and not allowed to run at large are not
subject to these vaccination requirements.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.33)
55.10 OWNER’S DUTY.
It is the duty of the owner of any dog, cat, or other animal that has bitten or
attacked a person or any person having knowledge of such bite or attack to
report this act to a local health or law enforcement official. It is the duty
of physicians and veterinarians to report to the local board of health the
existence of any animal known or suspected to be suffering from rabies.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.38)
55.11 CONFINEMENT.
If a local board of health receives information that an animal has bitten a
person or that a dog or animal is suspected of having rabies, the board shall
order the owner to confine such animal in the manner it directs. If the owner
fails to confine such animal in the manner directed, the animal shall be
apprehended and impounded by such board, and after 10 days the board may
humanely destroy the animal. If such animal is returned to its owner, the owner
shall pay the cost of impoundment. This section does not apply if a police
service dog or a horse used by a law enforcement agency and acting in the
performance of its duties has bitten a person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.39)
55.12 AT LARGE: IMPOUNDMENT.
Animals found at large in violation of this chapter shall be seized and
impounded, or at the discretion of the animal warden, the owner may be served a
summons to appear before a proper court to answer charges made there under.
55.13 DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
When an animal has been apprehended and impounded, written notice shall be
provided to the owner within two days after impoundment, if the owner’s name
and current address can reasonably be determined by accessing a tag or other
device that is on or part of the animal. The owner may be notified by telephone
or contacted in person and advised that his animal has been impounded, date and
time and place of impounding, and the time of keeping of said animal. Impounded
animals may be recovered by the owner upon payment of impounding costs, and if
an unvaccinated dog, by having it immediately vaccinated. If the owner fails to
redeem the animal within seven days from the date that the notice is mailed, or
if the owner cannot be located within seven days, the animal shall be disposed
of in accordance with law or destroyed by euthanasia.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.37, 351.41)
55.14 IMPOUNDING COSTS.
Impounding costs are $25.00, plus registration fees, and the costs for food and
care of the animal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.37)
55.15 PET AWARDS PROHIBITED.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 717E)
1.   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to award a pet or advertise
that a pet may be awarded as any of the following:
   A.   A prize for participating in a game.
   B.   A prize for participating in a fair.
   C.   An inducement or condition for visiting a place of business or
attending an event sponsored by a business.
   D.   An inducement or condition for executing a contract that includes
provisions unrelated to the ownership, care or disposition of the pet.
2.   Exceptions. This section does not apply to any of the following:
   A.   A pet shop licensed pursuant to Section 162.5 of the Code of Iowa if
the award of a pet is provided in connection with the sale of a pet on the
premises of the pet shop.
   B.   Youth programs associated with 4-H Clubs; Future Farmers of America;
the Izaak Walton League of America; or organizations associated with outdoor
recreation, hunting or fishing, including but not limited to the Iowa
Sportsmen’s Federation.
55.16 DEAD ANIMALS.
Any animal killed or which dies upon public property and where ownership can be
ascertained, may be removed by the City for disposal, or may be removed by the
owner; but where removed and disposed of by the City, the owner of the animal
shall pay a fee of $15.00.
CHAPTER 56
DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS ANIMALS
 
56.01 Definitions                  5.03 Keeping of Vicious Animals Prohibited
56.02 Keeping of Dangerous Animals 56.04 Seizure, Impoundment and Disposition
Prohibited
 
56.01 DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Animal” means any wild, tame, or domestic creature, other than a human
being, including, but not limited to, dogs, cats, cattle, horses, mules, sheep,
goats, swine, chickens, ducks, and geese.
2.   “Dangerous Animal” means (i) any animal which is not naturally tame or
gentle, and which is of a wild nature or disposition, and which is capable of
killing, inflicting serious injury upon, or causing disease among, human beings
or domestic animals and having known tendencies as a species to do so; (ii) any
animals declared to be dangerous by the Peace Officer, or by the Council, or
its designee; (iii) the following animals which are deemed to be dangerous
animals per se:
   A.   Wolves and coyotes
   B.   Badgers, wolverines, weasels, mink, and other Mustelids (except
ferrets)
   C.   Bears
   D.   All apes (including chimpanzees), baboons, and macaques
   E.   Monkeys, except the squirrel monkey
   F.   Elephants
   G.   Wild boar
   H.   Black widow spiders and scorpions
   I.   Snakes which are naturally venomous or poisonous, or constrictors
   J.   All cats, except domestic cats (Carnivora of the family Felidae
including but not limited to lions, cougars, tigers, jaguars, leopards, lynx,
bobcats, etc.)
   K.   Raccoons, opossums, and skunks
   L.   Alligators and crocodiles
1.   3.   “Vicious animal” means any animal, except for a dangerous animal as
listed above, that has attacked, bitten or clawed a person while running at
large and the attack was unprovoked, or any animal that has exhibited vicious
tendencies in present or past conduct, including such that said animal: (i) has
bitten more than one person during the animal’s lifetime; or (ii) has bitten
one person on two or more occasions during the animal’s lifetime; or (iii) has
attacked any domestic animal or fowl without provocation, causing injury or
death while off the property of the owner.
56.02 KEEPING OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
No person shall keep, shelter, or harbor any dangerous animal as a pet, or act
as a temporary custodian for such animal, or keep, shelter or harbor such
animal for any purpose or in any capacity within the City.
56.03 KEEPING OF VICIOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
No person shall keep, shelter, or harbor for any reason within the City a
vicious animal except in the following circumstances:
1.   Animals under the control of a law enforcement or military agency.
2.   The keeping of guard dogs; however, guard dogs must be kept within a
structure or fixed enclosure at all times, and any guard dog found at large may
be processed as a vicious animal pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
Any premises guarded by a guard dog shall be prominently posted with a sign
containing the wording “Guard Dog,” “Vicious Dog” or words of similar import,
and the owner of such premises shall inform the Mayor or peace officer that a
guard dog is on duty at said premises.
56.04 SEIZURE, IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION.
1.   In the event that a dangerous animal or vicious animal is found at large
and unattended upon public property, park property, public right-of-way or the
property of someone other than its owner, thereby creating a hazard to persons
or property, such animal may, in the discretion of the Mayor or peace officer,
be destroyed if it cannot be confined or captured. The City shall be under no
duty to attempt the confinement or capture of a dangerous animal or vicious
animal found at large, nor shall it have a duty to notify the owner of such
animal prior to its destruction.
2.   Upon the complaint of any individual that a person is keeping, sheltering
or harboring a dangerous animal or vicious animal on premises in the City, the
Mayor or peace officer shall cause the matter to be investigated and if after
investigation, the facts indicate that the person named in the complaint is
keeping, sheltering or harboring a dangerous or vicious animal in the City, the
Mayor or peace officer shall order the person named in the complaint to safely
remove such animal from the City or destroy the animal within three days of the
receipt of such an order. Such order shall be contained in a notice to remove
the dangerous or vicious animal, which notice shall be given in writing to the
person keeping, sheltering, or harboring the dangerous animal or vicious
animal, and shall be served personally or by certified mail. Such order and
notice to remove the dangerous animal or vicious animal shall not be required
where such animal has previously caused serious physical harm or death to any
person, in which case the Mayor or peace officer shall cause the animal to be
immediately seized and impounded or killed if seizure and impoundment are not
possible without risk of serious physical harm or death to any person.
3.   The order to remove a dangerous animal or vicious animal issued by the
Mayor or peace officer may be appealed to the Council. In order to appeal such
order, written notice of appeal must be filed with the Clerk within three days
after receipt of the order contained in the notice to remove the dangerous or
vicious animal. Failure to file such written notice of appeal shall constitute
a waiver of the right to appeal the order of the Mayor or peace officer.
4.   The notice of appeal shall state the grounds for such appeal and shall be
delivered personally or by certified mail to the Clerk. The hearing of such
appeal shall be scheduled within seven days of the receipt of the notice of
appeal. The hearing may be continued for good cause. After such hearing, the
Council may affirm or reverse the order of the Mayor or peace officer. Such
determination shall be contained in a written decision and shall be filed with
the Clerk within three days after the hearing or any continued session thereof.
5.   If the Council affirms the action of the Mayor or peace officer, the
Council shall order in its written decision that the person owning, sheltering,
harboring or keeping such dangerous or vicious animal remove such animal from
the City or destroy it. The decision and order shall immediately be served upon
the person against whom rendered in the same manner as the notice of removal.
If the original order of the Mayor or peace officer is not appealed and is not
complied with within three days or the order of the Council after appeal is not
complied with within three days of its issuance, the Mayor or peace officer is
authorized to seize, impound or destroy such dangerous or vicious animal.
Failure to comply with an order of the Mayor or peace officer issued pursuant
to this chapter and not appealed (or of the Council after appeal) constitutes a
simple misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 60
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE
 
60.01 Title                          60.05 Reports of Traffic Accidents
60.02 Definitions                    60.06 Peace Officer’s Authority
60.03 Administration and Enforcement 60.07 Obedience to Peace Officers
60.04 Power to Direct Traffic
 
60.01 TITLE.
Chapters
60 through
70 of this Code of Ordinances may be known and cited as the “Orleans Traffic
Code” (and are referred to herein as the “Traffic Code.”)
60.02 DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in the Traffic Code are defined by State law, such
definitions apply to their use in said Traffic Code and are adopted by
reference. Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, have the following
meanings:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)
1.    “Business District” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway when 50 percent or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of 300
feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business.
2.    “Park” or “parking” means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
3.   “Peace officer” means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
4.   “Residence district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway not comprising a business, suburban or school district, where 40
percent or more of the frontage on such a highway for a distance of 300 feet or
more is occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings in use for
business.
5.   “School district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway for a distance of 200 feet in either direction from a schoolhouse.
6.   “Stand” or “standing” means the halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving
or discharging passengers.
7.   “Stop” means when required, the complete cessation of movement.
8.   “Stop” or “stopping” means when prohibited, any halting of a vehicle, even
momentarily, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
9.   “Suburban district” means all other parts of the City not included in the
business, school, or residence districts.
10.   “Traffic control device” means all signs, signals, markings, and devices
not inconsistent with this chapter, lawfully placed or erected for the purpose
of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
11.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, street, or alley.
60.03 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
Provisions of this chapter and State law relating to motor vehicles and law of
the road are enforced by the Mayor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
60.04 POWER TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
A peace officer, and, in the absence of a peace officer, any officer of the
Fire Department when at the scene of a fire, is authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws. In the event
of an emergency, traffic may be directed as conditions require, notwithstanding
the provisions of the traffic laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.4 & 321.236[2])
60.05 TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS: REPORTS.
The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident within the limits of the City
shall file a report as and when required by the Iowa Department of
Transportation. A copy of this report shall be filed with the City for the
confidential use of peace officers and shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 321.271 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.273)
60.06 PEACE OFFICER’S AUTHORITY.
A peace officer is authorized to stop a vehicle to require exhibition of the
driver’s license of the driver, to serve a summons or memorandum of traffic
violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to inspect the vehicle with
reference to size, weight, cargo, log book, bills of lading or other manifest
of employment, tires and safety equipment, or to inspect the registration
certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or permit of such
vehicle. A peace officer having probable cause to stop a vehicle may require
exhibition of the proof of financial liability coverage card issued for the
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.492)
60.07 OBEDIENCE TO PEACE OFFICERS.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control, or regulate traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.229)
CHAPTER 61
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
 
61.01 Installation of Traffic Control Devices 61.04 Traffic Lanes
61.02 Compliance                              61.05 Standards
61.03 Crosswalks
 
61.01 INSTALLATION OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
The Council shall establish by resolution, and cause to be placed and
maintained, appropriate traffic control devices to indicate parking spaces and
zones, no parking zones, limited parking zones, reserved parking zones, loading
zones, safety zones, school zones, hospital zones, quiet zones, traffic zones
other than the above, truck routes, school stops, stop intersections, yield
right-of-way intersections, one-way streets, streets to be laned for traffic,
and play streets. The Council shall also have the power to designate and
indicate by resolution intersections at which traffic shall be controlled by
traffic signals; intersections at which left turns, right turns and U-turns
shall be prohibited; and intersections at which markers, buttons or other
indications shall be placed to indicate the course to be traveled by vehicles
traversing or turning at such intersections. The City shall keep a record of
all such traffic control devices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.254 & 321.255)
61.02 COMPLIANCE.
No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official traffic
control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, unless
at the time otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject to the exceptions
granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under Section 321.231 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
61.03 CROSSWALKS.
The Council is hereby authorized to designate and maintain crosswalks by
appropriate traffic control devices at intersections where, due to traffic
conditions, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street or
roadway, and at such other places as traffic conditions require.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] & 321.255)
61.04 TRAFFIC LANES.
Where traffic lanes have been marked on street pavements at such places as
traffic conditions require, it is unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the boundaries of any such lane
except when lawfully passing another vehicle or preparatory to making a lawful
turning movement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] & 321.255)
61.05 STANDARDS.
Traffic control devices shall comply with standards established by The Manual
of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
CHAPTER 62
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
 
62.01 Violation of Regulations 62.05 Quiet Zones
62.02 Play Streets Designated  62.06 Obstructing View at Intersections
62.03 Vehicles on Sidewalks    62.07 Engine Brakes and Compression Brakes
62.04 Clinging to Vehicle
 
62.01 VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
Any person who willfully fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order of a
peace officer or direction of a Fire Department officer during a fire, or who
fails to abide by the applicable provisions of the following Iowa statutory
laws relating to motor vehicles and the statutory law of the road is in
violation of this section. These sections of the Code of Iowa are adopted by
reference and are as follows:
1.   Display of Registration and License to Drive: 321.17, 321.32, 321.37,
321.38, 321.57, 321.67, 321.78, 321.79, 321.91, 321.98, 321.99, 321.104,
321.115, 321.174, 321.174A, 321.180, 321.180B, 321.193, 321.194, 321.208A,
321.216, 321.216B, 321.216C and 321.218 through 321.224.
2.   All Terrain Vehicles, Golf Carts, and Bicycles to Obey Traffic
Regulations, Speed Detection Jamming Devices, Road Workers: 321.232 through
321.234A, 235A and 321.247.
3.   Traffic Signs, Signals, and Markings: 321.259 and 321.260.
4.   Accidents and Accident Reporting: 321.262 through 321.266.
5.   Operation of Motorcycles and Motorized Bicycles: 321.275.
6.   Drag Racing; Speed; Open Containers; Control of Vehicle: 321.276, 321.277,
321.277A, 321.278, 321.281, 321.284, 321.284A, 321.288, 321.295, 321.333,
321.382 and 321.383.
7.   Driving on Right, Meeting, Overtaking, Following, or Towing: 321.297
through 321.299 and 321.302 through 321.310.
8.   Turning and Starting, Signals on Turning and Stopping: 321.312 through
321.318.
9.   Right-of-Way: 321.319 through 321.324A.
10.   Pedestrian Rights and Duties and Safety Zones: 321.329, 321.330, 321.332,
321.333, and 321.340.
11.   Railroad Crossings: 321.341 through 321.344 and 321.344B.
12.   Stopping, Standing, Parking: 321.354 and 321.359.
13.   Unattended Vehicle, Obstructing Driver’s View, Crossing Median, Following
Fire Apparatus, or Crossing Fire Hose, and Putting Glass, Etc., on Streets:
321.362 through 321.365 and 321.367 through 321.371.
14.   School Buses: 321.372.
15.   Lighting Equipment Required and Time of Use: 321.384 through 321.390,
321.392 through 321.395, 321.398, 321.402 through 321.405, 321.408, 321.409,
321.415, 321.417 through 321.423. In accordance with authorization granted by
Section 321.395, Code of Iowa, motor vehicles parked upon any street where
permitted by this chapter need not display required lights where there is
sufficient light emitted from City street lights to reveal any person or object
within a distance of five hundred (500) feet upon such street.
16.   Brakes, Horns, Sirens, Mufflers, Wipers, Mirrors, Tires, Flares, Windows,
Safety Belts, and Special Markings for Transporting Explosives: 321.430 through
321.434; 321.436 through 321.442; 321.444 through 321.446, 321.449, 321.449A,
321.449B, and 321.450.
17.   Size, Weight, and Load: 321.454 through 321.458, 321.460 through 321.463,
321.465 and 321.466.
18.   Unsafe Vehicles: 321.381 and 321.381A.
62.02 PLAY STREETS DESIGNATED.
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof as
a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street or portion
thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences are
within such closed area, and then any said driver shall exercise the greatest
care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
62.03 VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk area except
at a driveway.
62.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLE.
No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of the City unless all
passengers of said vehicle are inside the vehicle in the place intended for
their accommodation. No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
in-line skates, sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or
herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
62.05 QUIET ZONES.
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
62.06 OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS.
It is unlawful to allow any tree, hedge, billboard, or other object to obstruct
the view of an intersection by preventing persons from having a clear view of
traffic approaching the intersection from cross streets. Any such obstruction
is deemed a nuisance and in addition to the standard penalty may be abated in
the manner provided by
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
62.07 ENGINE BRAKES AND COMPRESSION BRAKES.
It is unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate within the City
any engine brake, compression brake, or mechanical exhaust device designed to
aid in the braking or deceleration of any vehicle, which results in excessive,
loud, unusual, or explosive noise from such vehicle, except in the case of an
emergency.
CHAPTER 63
SPEED REGULATIONS
 
63.01 General                            63.04 Special Speed Zones
63.02 State Code Speed Limits            63.05 Minimum Speed
63.03 Parks, Cemeteries and Parking Lots
 
63.01 GENERAL.
Every driver of a motor vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a careful
and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and proper,
having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and of any
other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle on any
street at a speed greater than will permit said driver to bring it to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right to
assume, however, that all persons using said street will observe the law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.285)
63.02 STATE CODE SPEED LIMITS.
The Council having determined that the entire community of Orleans is a
residence district, except as provided in Section
63.04, below, the City-wide speed limit is 25 miles per hour.
(Ord. 211 – Jun. 23 Supp.)
63.03 PARKS, CEMETERIES AND PARKING LOTS.
A speed in excess of 15 miles per hour in any public park, cemetery or parking
lot, unless specifically designated otherwise in this chapter, is unlawful.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[5])
63.04 SPECIAL SPEED ZONES.
In accordance with requirements of the Iowa Department of Transportation, or
whenever the Council shall determine upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that any speed limit listed in Section
63.02 is greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found
to exist at any intersection or other place or upon any part of the City street
system, the Council shall determine and adopt by ordinance such higher or lower
speed limit as it deems reasonable and safe at such location. The following
special speed zones have been established:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.290)
1.   Special 35 MPH Speed Zones.  
   A.   A speed in excess of 35 miles per hour is unlawful on the following
designated portion of 240th Avenue: from the intersection with Peoria Avenue
and 140th Street on the south to the north City limits.
(Subsection 1 – Ord. 211 – Jun. 23 Supp.)
63.05 MINIMUM SPEED.
A person shall not drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation, or in compliance with law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.294)
CHAPTER 64
TURNING REGULATIONS
 
64.01 Turning at Intersections 64.03 Left Turn for Parking
64.02 U-Turns
 
64.01 TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
2.   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half
of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to depart from the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
3.   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street shall
be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the centerline
thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it enters the
intersection. A left turn from a one-way street into a two-way street shall be
made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street being entered upon
leaving the intersection.
The Council may cause markers, buttons or signs to be placed within or adjacent
to intersections and thereby require and direct, as traffic conditions require,
that a different course from that specified above be traveled by vehicles
turning at intersections, and when markers, buttons or signs are so placed, no
driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as
directed and required by such markers, buttons or signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.311)
64.02 U-TURNS.
It is unlawful for a driver to make a U-turn except at an intersection;
however, U-turns are prohibited within the Business District and at any
intersection where a sign prohibiting U-turns is posted in accordance with
Chapter 61 of this Traffic Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[9])
64.03 LEFT TURN FOR PARKING.
No person shall make a left hand turn, crossing the centerline of the street,
for the purpose of parking on said street.
CHAPTER 65
STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED
 
65.01 Stop or Yield                 65.04 Stop When Traffic Is Obstructed
65.02 School Stops                  65.05 Yield to Pedestrians in Crosswalks
65.03 Stop Before Crossing Sidewalk
 
65.01 STOP OR YIELD.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop or yield as directed by traffic control
devices posted in accordance with
Chapter 61 of this Traffic Code.
1.   Through Street Stop.
   A.   140th Street from 253rd Avenue to 240th Avenue.
   B.   240th Avenue from 140th Street to end of City limits.
   C.   253rd Avenue from 140th Street to end of City limits.
2.   Four-Way Stop.
   A.   Sunset Drive and First Street. All vehicles approaching the
intersection of First Street and Sunset Drive shall stop before entering such
intersection.
65.02 SCHOOL STOPS.
At any school crossing zone, every driver of a vehicle approaching said zone
shall bring the vehicle to a full stop at a point 10 feet from the approach
side of the crosswalk marked by an authorized school stop sign and thereafter
proceed in a careful and prudent manner until the vehicle shall have passed
through such school crossing zone.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.249)
65.03 STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK.
The driver of a vehicle emerging from a private roadway, alley, driveway, or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk
area and thereafter shall proceed into the sidewalk area only when able to do
so without danger to pedestrian traffic and shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicular traffic on the street into which the vehicle is entering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.353)
65.04 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC IS OBSTRUCTED.
Notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed, no driver
shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient
space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the
vehicle.
65.05 YIELD TO PEDESTRIANS IN CROSSWALKS.
Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver of a
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need be, to
yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk or
within any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.327)
CHAPTER 66
LOAD AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
 
66.01 Temporary Embargo                  66.04 Load Limits on Bridges
66.02 Permits for Excess Size and Weight 66.05 Truck Route
66.03 Load Limits Upon Certain Streets
 
66.01 TEMPORARY EMBARGO.
If the Council declares an embargo when it appears by reason of deterioration,
rain, snow or other climatic conditions that certain streets will be seriously
damaged or destroyed by vehicles weighing in excess of an amount specified by
the signs, no such vehicles shall be operated on streets so designated by such
signs erected in accordance with
Chapter 61 of this Traffic Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471 & 472)
66.02 PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT.
The Clerk may, upon application and good cause being shown therefor, issue a
special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move a
vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight or load exceeding the
maximum specified by State law or the City over those streets or bridges named
in the permit which are under the jurisdiction of the City and for which the
City is responsible for maintenance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 & 321E.1)
66.03 LOAD LIMITS UPON CERTAIN STREETS.
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified on such signs at
any time upon any of the streets or parts of streets for which said signs are
erected in accordance with
Chapter 61 of this Traffic Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 & 475)
66.04 LOAD LIMITS ON BRIDGES.
Where it has been determined that any City bridge has a capacity less than the
maximum permitted on the streets of the City, or on the street serving the
bridge, the Council may cause to be posted and maintained signs, in accordance
with
Chapter 61 of this Traffic Code, on said bridge and at suitable distances ahead
of the entrances thereof to warn drivers of such maximum load limits, and no
person shall drive a vehicle weighing, loaded or unloaded, upon said bridge in
excess of such posted limit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471)
66.05 TRUCK ROUTE.
When truck routes have been designated in accordance with
Chapter 61, any motor vehicle exceeding established weight limits shall comply
with the following:
1.   Deliveries Off Truck Route. Any such motor vehicle, when loaded or empty,
having a fixed terminal, making a scheduled or definite stop within the City
for the purpose of loading or unloading shall proceed over or upon the
designated routes to the nearest point of its scheduled or definite stop and
shall proceed thereto, load or unload and return, by the most direct route to
its point of departure from said designated route.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
2.   Employer’s Responsibility. The owner, or any other person, employing or
otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle shall not require or knowingly
permit the operation of such vehicle upon a street in any manner contrary to
this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
CHAPTER 67
PEDESTRIANS
 
67.01 Walking in Street 67.03 Pedestrian Crossing
67.02 Hitchhiking
 
67.01 WALKING IN STREET.
Pedestrians shall at all times, when walking on or along a street, walk on the
left side of the street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.326)
67.02 HITCHHIKING.
No person shall stand in the traveled portion of a street for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the driver of any private vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.331)
67.03 PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.328)
CHAPTER 68
ONE-WAY TRAFFIC
68.01 ONE-WAY TRAFFIC REQUIRED.
When appropriate signs are in place, as provided for in
Chapter 61 of this Traffic Code, vehicular traffic, other than permitted cross
traffic, shall move only in the direction indicated on such signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[4])
1.   Any north-south alley shall be northbound only.
CHAPTER 69
PARKING REGULATIONS
 
69.01 Parking Limited or Controlled 69.08 No Parking Zones
69.02 Park Adjacent to Curb         69.09 Parking Time Limits
69.03 Parking on One-Way Streets    69.10 Persons With Disabilities Parking
69.04 Angle Parking                 69.11 Snow Removal
69.05 Manner of Angle Parking       69.12 Snow Routes
69.06 Parking for Certain Purposes  69.13 Trailer Parking
Illegal
69.07 Parking Prohibited
 
69.01 PARKING LIMITED OR CONTROLLED.
Parking of vehicles shall be controlled or limited where so indicated by
designated traffic control devices in accordance with
Chapter 61 of this Traffic Code. No person shall stop, park or stand a vehicle
in violation of any such posted parking regulations unless in compliance with
the directions of a peace officer.
69.02 PARK ADJACENT TO CURB.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with
the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and
with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in the case of angle parking and
vehicles parked on the left-hand side of one-way streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.03 PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle on the left-hand side of a one-way
street other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction
of lawful traffic movement and with the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within
18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in
the case of angle parking.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.04 ANGLE PARKING.
Angle or diagonal parking is permitted only in the following locations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
- NONE -
69.05 MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
Upon those streets or portions of streets which have been signed or marked for
angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at an angle
to the curb or edge of the roadway or in the center of the roadway as indicated
by such signs and markings. No part of any vehicle or the load thereon, when
said vehicle is parked within a diagonal parking district, shall extend into
the roadway more than a distance of 16 feet when measured at right angles to
the adjacent curb or edge of roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.06 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES ILLEGAL.
No person shall park a vehicle upon public property for more than 72 hours,
unless otherwise limited under the provisions of Section
69.01 of this chapter, or for any of the following principal purposes:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
1.   Sale. Displaying such vehicle for sale.
2.   Repairing. For lubricating, repairing or for commercial washing of such
vehicle except such repairs as are necessitated by an emergency.
3.   Advertising. Displaying advertising.
4.   Merchandise Sales. Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a duly
established market place or when so authorized or licensed under the Code of
Ordinances.
69.07 PARKING PROHIBITED.
No one shall stop, stand or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
1.   Crosswalk. On a crosswalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[5])
2.   Center Parkway. On the center parkway or dividing area of any divided
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
3.   Mailboxes. Within 20 feet on either side of a mailbox which is so placed
and so equipped as to permit the depositing of mail from vehicles on the
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
4.   Sidewalks. On or across a sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[1])
5.   Driveway. In front of a public or private driveway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[2])
6.   Intersection. Within an intersection or within 10 feet of an intersection
of any street or alley.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[3])
7.   Fire Hydrant. Within five feet of a fire hydrant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[4])
8.   Stop Sign or Signal. Within 10 feet upon the approach to any flashing
beacon, stop or yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[6])
9.   Railroad Crossing. Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing, except when parked parallel with such rail and not exhibiting a red
light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[8])
10.   Fire Station. Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of said entrance when properly sign posted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[9])
11.   Excavations. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction
when such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[10])
12.   Double Parking. On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at
the edge or curb of a street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[11])
13.   Hazardous Locations. When, because of restricted visibility or when
standing or parked vehicles would constitute a hazard to moving traffic, or
when other traffic conditions require, the Council may cause curbs to be
painted with a yellow color and erect no parking or standing signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[13])
14.   Churches, Nursing Homes and Other Buildings. A space of 50 feet is hereby
reserved at the side of the street in front of any theatre, auditorium, hotel
having more than 25 sleeping rooms, hospital, nursing home, taxicab stand, bus
depot, church, or other building where large assemblages of people are being
held, within which space, when clearly marked as such, no motor vehicle shall
be left standing, parked or stopped except in taking on or discharging
passengers or freight, and then only for such length of time as is necessary
for such purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.360)
15.   Alleys. No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner
or under such conditions as to leave available less than 10 feet of the width
of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall
stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block
the driveway entrance to any abutting property. The provisions of this
subsection shall not apply to a vehicle parked in any alley which is 18 feet
wide or less; provided said vehicle is parked to deliver goods or services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
16.   Ramps. In front of a curb cut or ramp which is located on public or
private property in a manner which blocks access to the curb cut or ramp.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[15])
17.   Area Between Lot Line and Curb Line. That area of the public way not
covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and the curb line, where
curbing has been installed.
   A.   Residential. Parking of pickups or automobiles is permitted adjacent to
one or two family dwellings as defined in the Uniform Building Code.
   B.   Manner. Where permitted, vehicles shall park parallel to the adjacent
curb line or edge of the roadway.
   C.   Intersection. No vehicles or equipment shall be permitted to be parked
on said portion of a street right-of-way within 40 feet of an intersecting
street’s nearest curb line at any time.
18.   In More Than One Space. In any designated parking space so that any part
of the vehicle occupies more than one such space or protrudes beyond the
markings designating such space.
69.08 NO PARKING ZONES.
No one shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any of the following specifically
designated no parking zones except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the direction of a peace officer or traffic
control signal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
1.   First Street, on the east side from 140th Street to Sunset Drive at any
time.
2.   On 140th Street:
   A.   On the north side from Hill Avenue to 253rd Avenue;
   B.   On the south side from Hill Avenue east a distance of 50’;
   C.   On the south side from 252nd Avenue west 560’.
(Subsection 2 – Ord. 212 – Jun. 23 Supp.)
3.   253rd Avenue, on both sides from 140th Street to north corporate line at
any time.
4.   Sunset Drive, on the east side from First Street to Second Street.
5.   Second Street, on the south side from Sunset Drive to 253rd Avenue.
6.   252nd Avenue, on both sides from 140th Street to Highway 9.
7.   140th Street, on both sides from Hill Avenue to 240th Avenue.
69.09 PARKING TIME LIMITS.
1.   City Streets. It is unlawful to stop or park any wagon, automobile, truck,
machinery, or vehicle on any municipal street for more than 18 hours unless
such parking is exempted elsewhere in this code.
2.   Municipal Parking Lot. It is unlawful to stop or park any wagon,
automobile, truck, machinery, or vehicle on any municipally owned area for more
than 18 hours.
69.10 PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.
The following regulations shall apply to the establishment and use of persons
with disabilities parking spaces:
1.   Establishment. Persons with disabilities parking spaces shall be
established and designated in accordance with Chapter 321L of the Code of Iowa
and Iowa Administrative Code, 661-18. No unauthorized person shall establish
any on-street persons with disabilities parking space without first obtaining
Council approval.
2.   Improper Use. The following uses of a persons with disabilities parking
space, located on either public or private property, constitute improper use of
a persons with disabilities parking permit, which is a violation of this Code
of Ordinances:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321L.4[2])
   A.   Use by an operator of a vehicle not displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit;
   B.   Use by an operator of a vehicle displaying a persons with disabilities
parking permit but not being used by a person issued a permit or being
transported in accordance with Section 321L.2[1b] of the Code of Iowa;
   C.   Use by a vehicle in violation of the rules adopted under Section 321L.8
of the Code of Iowa.
3.   Wheelchair Parking Cones. No person shall use or interfere with a
wheelchair parking cone in violation of the following:
   A.   A person issued a persons with disabilities parking permit must comply
with the requirements of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa when utilizing
a wheelchair parking cone.
   B.   A person shall not interfere with a wheelchair parking cone which is
properly placed under the provisions of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa.
69.11 SNOW REMOVAL.
No person shall park, abandon or leave unattended any vehicle on any public
street, alley, or City-owned off-street parking area during snow removal
operations unless the snow has been removed or plowed from said street, alley
or parking area and the snow has ceased to fall.
(Code of Iowa, 321.236[1])
69.12 SNOW ROUTES.
The Council may designate certain streets in the City as snow routes. When
conditions of snow or ice exist on the traffic surface of a designated snow
route, it is unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to impede or block traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[12])
69.13 TRAILER PARKING.
It is a parking violation to store any semitrailer, boat, motor home, utility
trailer, travel trailer, or cart of any kind on the streets of the City for a
period of more than 12 hours.
CHAPTER 70
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
 
70.01 Arrest or Citation            70.04 Parking Violations: Vehicle
                                    Unattended
70.02 Scheduled Violations          70.05 Presumption in Reference to Illegal
                                    Parking
70.03 Alternative Parking Violation 70.06 Impounding Vehicles
Enforcement
 
70.01 ARREST OR CITATION.
Whenever a peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provision of the Traffic Code, such officer may:
1.   Immediate Arrest. Immediately arrest such person and take such person
before a local magistrate; or
2.   Issue Citation. Without arresting the person, prepare in quintuplicate a
combined traffic citation and complaint as adopted by the Iowa Commissioner of
Public Safety, or issue a uniform citation and complaint utilizing a State-
approved computerized device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.6 & 321.485)
70.02 SCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.
For violations of the Traffic Code which are designated by Section 805.8A of
the Code of Iowa to be scheduled violations, the scheduled fine for each of
those violations shall be as specified in Section 805.8A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.8 & 805.8A)
70.03 ALTERNATIVE PARKING VIOLATION ENFORCEMENT.
1.   Officer’s Discretion – Notice of Violation. In the discretion of the
police officer, if conditions warrant, the officer may issue a “Notice of
Violation” in regard to violations of any provisions of this chapter, in lieu
of the statutorily prescribed citation.
2.   Civil Penalty. The penalty for a “Notice of Violation” under this section
is the amount of $25.00. Payment of the civil penalty shall be accomplished by
mailing payment to the City of Orleans, P.O. Box 345, Orleans, IA 51360. If a
“Notice of Violation” is issued and the civil penalty is not paid within 30
days of the date of the violation, or if the driver denies the violation, the
issuing officer shall cancel the “Notice of Violation” and issue a citation to
be processed through the court system in the normal procedure.
3.   The City of Orleans shall develop a form of “Notice of Violation” to be
issued pursuant to this section, shall maintain complete and adequate records
as to “Notices of Violation” issued, civil penalties paid, and of “Notice of
Violations” which are unpaid or denied.
70.04 PARKING VIOLATIONS: VEHICLE UNATTENDED.
When a vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the Traffic Code, and
the driver is not present, the notice of fine or citation as herein provided
shall be attached to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
70.05 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
In any proceeding charging a standing or parking violation, a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred, shall be raised by proof that:
1.   Described Vehicle. The particular vehicle described in the information was
parked in violation of the Traffic Code; and
2.   Registered Owner. The defendant named in the information was the
registered owner at the time in question.
70.06 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
A peace officer is hereby authorized to remove, or cause to be removed, a
vehicle from a street, public alley, public parking lot or highway to the
nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the City, under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
1.   Disabled Vehicle. When a vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
2.   Illegally Parked Vehicle. When any vehicle is left unattended and is so
illegally parked as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
3.   Snow Removal. When any vehicle is left parked in violation of a ban on
parking during snow removal operations.
4.   Parked Over Limited Time Period. When any vehicle is left parked for a
continuous period in violation of any limited parking time. If the owner can be
located, the owner shall be given an opportunity to remove the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
5.   Costs. In addition to the standard penalties provided, the owner or driver
of any vehicle impounded for the violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be required to pay the reasonable cost of towing and storage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
CHAPTER 75
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND SNOWMOBILES
 
75.01 Purpose                  75.06 Operation of All-Terrain Vehicles
75.02 Definitions              75.07 Operating Requirements
75.03 General Regulations      75.08 Negligence
75.04 Operation of Snowmobiles 75.09 Accident Reports
75.05 Manner of Operation
 
75.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of all-terrain
vehicles and snowmobiles within the City.
75.02 DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “All-terrain vehicle” or “ATV” means a motorized vehicle, with not less
than three and not more than six non-highway tires, that is limited in engine
displacement to less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to
less than 1,200 pounds and that has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled
by the operator and handlebars for steering control.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
2.   “Off-road motorcycle” means a two-wheeled motor vehicle that has a seat or
saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering
control and that is intended by the manufacturer for use on natural terrain.
“Off-road motorcycle” includes a motorcycle that was originally issued a
certificate of title and registered for highway use under Chapter 321 of the
Code of Iowa, but which contains design features that enable operation over
natural terrain. An operator of an off-road motorcycle is also subject to the
provisions of this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
3.   “Off-road utility vehicle” means a motorized vehicle, with not less than
four and not more than eight non-highway tires or rubberized tracks, that has a
seat that is of bucket or bench design, not intended to be straddled by the
operator, and a steering wheel or control levers for control. “Off-road utility
vehicle” includes the following vehicles:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   A.   “Off-road utility vehicle – type 1” includes vehicles with a total dry
weight of 1,200 pounds or less and a width of 50 inches or less.
   B.   “Off-road utility vehicle – type 2” includes vehicles, other than type
1 vehicles, with a total dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less and a width of 65
inches or less.
   C.   “Off-road utility vehicle – type 3” includes vehicles with a total dry
weight of more than 2,000 pounds or a width of more than 65 inches, or both.
An operator of an off-road utility vehicle is also subject to the provisions of
this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
4.   “Snowmobile” means a motorized vehicle that weighs less than 1,000 pounds,
that uses sled-type runners or skis, endless belt-type tread with a width of 48
inches or less, or any combination of runners, skis, or tread, and is designed
for travel on snow or ice. “Snowmobile” does not include an all-terrain vehicle
that has been altered or equipped with runners, skis, belt-type tracks, or
treads.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.1)
75.03 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
No person shall operate an ATV, off-road motorcycle or off-road utility vehicle
within the City in violation of Chapter 321I of the Code of Iowa or a
snowmobile within the City in violation of the provisions of Chapter 321G of
the Code of Iowa or in violation of rules established by the Natural Resource
Commission of the Department of Natural Resources governing their registration,
equipment and manner of operation.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 321G & Ch. 321I)
75.04 OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES.
The operators of snowmobiles shall comply with the following restrictions as to
where snowmobiles may be operated within the City:
1.   Streets. Snowmobiles shall be operated only upon streets that have not
been plowed during the snow season and on such other streets as may be
designated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4a])
2.   Exceptions. Snowmobiles may be operated on prohibited streets only under
the following circumstances:
   A.   Emergencies. Snowmobiles may be operated on any street in an emergency
during the period of time when and at locations where snow upon the roadway
renders travel by conventional motor vehicles impractical.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4c])
   B.   Direct Crossing. Snowmobiles may make a direct crossing of a prohibited
street provided all of the following occur:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
      (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
street;
      (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all on-coming traffic that
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
      (4)   In crossing a divided street, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such street with another street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[2])
3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on an operating
railroad right-of-way. A snowmobile may be driven directly across a railroad
right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any other
provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.13[1h])
4.   Trails. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on all-terrain vehicle trails
except where so designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4f])
5.   Parks and Other City Land. Snowmobiles shall not be operated in any park,
playground or upon any other City-owned property without the express permission
of the City. A snowmobile shall not be operated on any City land without a snow
cover of at least one-tenth of one inch.
6.   Sidewalk or Parking. Snowmobiles shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking” except for
purposes of crossing the same to a public street upon which operation is
authorized by this chapter.
75.05 MANNER OF OPERATION.
No person shall operate a snowmobile in the city except as hereafter provided:
1.   Registration. No snowmobile shall be operated in the City unless
registered pursuant to State law and unless the identifying number set forth in
the registration is displayed on each side of the snowmobile.
(Code of Iowa, Sec.321.G.3 & 321.G.5)
2.   Equipment. All snowmobiles shall be equipped with the original equipment
manufactured muffler and exhaust systems or their equivalent not to exceed
manufacturer’s original noise emissions specifications, lights, and other
equipment may be required by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.G.2, 21.G.11, & 321.G.12)
3.   Traffic Code. Snowmobile operators shall observe all State and local
traffic-control regulations and devices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
4.   Speed. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on streets at a speed in excess
of that posted nor at any time at a rate of speed greater than reasonable and
proper under all existing circumstances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.G.13 [2])
5.   Careless Operation. No person shall operate a snowmobile in a careless,
reckless, or negligent manner so as to endanger the person or property of
another or to cause injury or damage thereto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.G.13 [1b])
6.   Intoxicated. No person shall operate a snowmobile while under the
influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotics or habit-forming drugs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec.321.G.13 [1d])
7.   Lights. No person shall operate a snowmobile without a lighted headlight
and taillight when required for safety.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.G.13 [1d])
8.   Unattended. No operator or owner shall leave or allow a snowmobile to be
or remain unattended on public property while the motor is running or with keys
in the ignition switch.
9.   Flag. No snowmobile shall be operated upon a street without displaying a
flag with an area of not less than six by nine inches of fluorescent orange
color on a staff holder to put such flag at least five feet above the surface
of the street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec.321.G.13 [9])
10.   Minors. No person under 16 years of age shall operate a snowmobile on or
across a public street unless he has in his possession a valid safety
certificate issued to him by the State Conservation Commission nor shall the
owner or operator of any snowmobile having an engine rating of 300 cubic
centimeters or more permit any person under 12 years of age to operate such a
snowmobile at any time except when accompanied by a responsible person of at
least 18 years. of age.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.G.9 [6] & 321.G.20)
11.   Hours of Operation. Snowmobiles shall not be operated anywhere within in
the City, Sunday night through Thursday night between the hours of 11:00 P.M.
and 5:00 A.M. nor during the overnight hours of 1:00 A.M. and 5:00 A.M. on
Saturday and Sunday mornings. The only permitted operation during these hours
will be to directly unload and load snowmobiles from a truck or trailer.
12.   Thaw Ban. Snowmobiles shall not be operated during a publicized thaw ban
in areas posted to prohibit such operation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.G.2)
13.   Single File. Snowmobiles shall be driven in a single file manner in the
proper lane of traffic as close to the curb or edge of roadway as is possible
under existing conditions.
14.   Towing. No item shall be towed by a snowmobile unless coupled to said
snowmobile by a rigid tow bar.
15.   Dead Man Throttle. No snowmobile shall be operated within the City unless
equipped with a “dead man” throttle which when pressure is removed from the
accelerator or throttle causes the engine to be disengaged from the drive
mechanism.
16.   Financial Responsibility. The owner or driver of the snowmobile within
the City limits must maintain and provide current proof of financial
responsibility in accordance with Iowa Code Section 321.20B.
75.06 OPERATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
The operators of ATVs and UTVs shall comply with the following restrictions as
to where ATVs and UTVs may be operated within the City:
1.   Streets. ATVs and off-road utility vehicles may be operated on streets
only in accordance with Section 321.234A of the Code of Iowa and on all City
streets under the jurisdiction of the City of Orleans, except primary road
extensions or state highways. In designating such streets, the Council may
authorize ATVs and off-road utility vehicles to stop at service stations or
convenience stores along a designated street.
2.   Trails. ATVs or UTVs shall not be operated on snowmobile, bike or walking
trails except where designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[4])
3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. ATVs or UTVs shall not be operated on an operating
railroad right-of-way. An ATV or UTV may be driven directly across a railroad
right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any other
provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.14[1h])
4.   Parks and Other City Land. ATVs shall not be operated in any park,
playground or upon any other City-owned property without the express permission
of the City.
5.   Sidewalk or Parking. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking.”
6.   Direct Crossing. An all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle may
make a direct crossing of a highway provided all of the following occur:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[5])
   A.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing.
   B.   The all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle is brought to a
complete stop before crossing the shoulder or main traveled way of the highway.
   C.   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard.
   D.   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another public street or highway.
   E.   The crossing is made from a street, roadway, or highway designated as
an all-terrain vehicle trail by any State agency, the County, or the City to a
street, roadway, or highway designated as an all-terrain vehicle trail by any
State agency, the County, or the City.
7.   Private Property. ATVs shall not be operated on private property, except
with the consent of the owner.
75.07 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
1.   License. No person shall operate an all-terrain vehicle on the streets of
the City unless the operator holds a valid motor vehicle operator’s license.
2.   Equipment. All such vehicles shall be equipped with the original
manufacturer’s muffler and exhaust system or equivalent, not to exceed the
manufacturer’s original emission specifications. Every such vehicle shall be
equipped with lights and safety equipment required of motor vehicles under Iowa
law.
3.   Traffic Code Observed-Speed. Operators of such vehicles must observe all
State and local traffic control regulations and devices and shall not operate
such vehicles at speeds in excess of applicable limits, nor a speed greater
than is reasonable and proper under the existing conditions. In no event shall
such vehicles be operated at a speed greater than 35-mph.
4.   Unattended Vehicles and Parking. No operator of such vehicles shall leave
a vehicle unattended on public property with the engine running or with keys in
the ignition switch. Operators of such vehicles shall obey all parking
regulations of the City.
5.   Registration. The owner of an all-terrain vehicle shall maintain current
vehicle registration as required by Iowa law.
75.08 NEGLIGENCE.
The owner and operator of an ATV, UTV, or snowmobile are liable for any injury
or damage occasioned by the negligent operation of the ATV or snowmobile. The
owner of an ATV, UTV, or snowmobile shall be liable for any such injury or
damage only if the owner was the operator of the ATV, UTV, or snowmobile at the
time the injury or damage occurred or if the operator had the owner’s consent
to operate the ATV, UTV, or snowmobile at the time the injury or damage
occurred. The owner or operator shall maintain and provide current proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with the Code of Iowa 321.20B.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.18 & 321I.19)
75.09 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
Whenever an ATV, UTV, or snowmobile is involved in an accident resulting in
injury or death to anyone or property damage amounting to $1,500.00 or more,
either the operator or someone acting for the operator shall immediately notify
a law enforcement officer and shall file an accident report, in accordance with
State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.10 & 321I.11)
CHAPTER 76
BICYCLE REGULATIONS
 
76.01 Scope of Regulations            76.08 Riding on Sidewalks
76.02 Traffic Code Applies            76.09 Towing
76.03 Double Riding Restricted        76.10 Improper Riding
76.04 Two Abreast Limit               76.11 Parking
76.05 Speed                           76.12 Equipment Requirements
76.06 Emerging from Alley or Driveway 76.13 Special Penalty
76.07 Carrying Articles
 
76.01 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
These regulations shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street or
upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to
those exceptions stated herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.02 TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by the laws of the State declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or
by the Traffic Code of the City applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except
as to those provisions that by their nature can have no application. Whenever
such person dismounts from a bicycle, the person shall be subject to all
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234)
76.03 DOUBLE RIDING RESTRICTED.
A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent and
regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons
at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234[3 and 4])
76.04 TWO ABREAST LIMIT.
Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles. All bicycles ridden on the roadway shall be kept to the right and
shall be operated as near as practicable to the right-hand edge of the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.05 SPEED.
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.06 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall,
upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk or
sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.07 CARRYING ARTICLES.
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article that
prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.08 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
The following provisions apply to riding bicycles on sidewalks:
1.   Business District. No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within
the Business District, as defined in Section
60.02(1) of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
2.   Other Locations. When signs are erected on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, no person shall
disobey the signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
3.   Yield Right-of-Way. Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.09 TOWING.
It is unlawful for any person riding a bicycle to be towed or to tow any other
vehicle upon the streets of the City unless the vehicle is manufactured for
such use.
76.10 IMPROPER RIDING.
No person shall ride a bicycle in an irregular or reckless manner such as
zigzagging, stunting, speeding, or otherwise so as to disregard the safety of
the operator or others.
76.11 PARKING.
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.12 EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
Every person riding a bicycle shall be responsible for providing and using
equipment as provided herein:
1.   Lamps Required. Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped
with a lamp on the front emitting a white light visible from a distance of at
least 300 feet to the front and with a lamp on the rear exhibiting a red light
visible from a distance of 300 feet to the rear, except that a red reflector on
the rear, of a type that is visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet
to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a
motor vehicle, may be used in lieu of a rear light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.397)
2.   Brakes Required. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake that will
enable the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean
pavement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.13 SPECIAL PENALTY.
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter may, in lieu of the
scheduled fine for bicyclists or standard penalty provided for violations of
this Code of Ordinances, allow the person’s bicycle to be impounded by the City
for not less than five days for the first offense, 10 days for a second offense
and 30 days for a third offense.
CHAPTER 77
GOLF CARTS
 
77.01 Purpose            77.05 Safety
77.02 Definition         77.06 Prohibitions
77.03 Drivers            77.07 Rules of Operation
77.04 Hours of Operation
 
77.01 PURPOSE.
In order to facilitate and allow the safe operation of golf carts upon streets
within the City, it is necessary to enact rules and regulations for the
operation thereof.
77.02 DEFINITION.
For purposes of this chapter, the phrase “golf cart” means any vehicle with
three or more wheels, powered either by electricity or an internal combustion-
engine, which is used and designed primarily for the transportation of golfers
and golf clubs upon golf courses.
77.03 DRIVERS.
Any person operating a golf cart upon designated City streets shall be at least
16 years old and possess a valid motor vehicle operator’s license issued by the
Iowa Department of Transportation.
77.04 HOURS OF OPERATION.
Golf carts may be operated upon designated City streets only from sunrise to
sunset, regardless of whether the golf cart is equipped with lights.
77.05 SAFETY.
1.   Any golf cart operated upon designated City streets shall be equipped with
a slow moving vehicle sign on the back thereof as well as a bicycle safety
flag, and all carts shall have adequate brakes;
2.   A golf cart operated upon a designated City street only for the purpose of
crossing the street at or near a right angle, and not otherwise operated upon a
City street shall not be required to be equipped with a slow-moving vehicle,
sign and a bicycle safety flag, as otherwise herein required.
77.06 PROHIBITIONS.
Golf carts may be operated on all City streets and public rights-of-way; except
primary road extensions. Golf carts shall be allowed to cross a City street
which is primary road extension by the most direct route.
77.07 RULES OF OPERATION.
Drivers of golf cart upon designated City streets shall be subject to all
applicable provisions of Code of Iowa Chapter 321, as subsequently amended, and
any violation of the applicable provision said chapter shall also constitute a
violation of the City code. In addition, drivers of golf carts operated shall
be subject to the following additional rules:
1.   Except when executing a left turn, golf carts shall be driven as close as
practicable to the right-hand edge of any road;
2.   Golf carts must yield the right-of-way to other motor vehicles at all
uncontrolled intersections regardless of the dictates of Code of Iowa Section
321.319.
3.   Golf carts shall not be parked upon streets.
4.   When necessary to prevent congestion of traffic, golf carts shall be
pulled to the right-hand edge of streets and be stopped to allow other motor
vehicles traveling in the same direction to pass.
5.   When two or more golf carts are being operated in the same direction and
general vicinity they shall proceed in a single file.
6.   The owner or operator shall maintain and provide current proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with Code of Iowa, Section 321.20B.
CHAPTER 80
ABANDONED VEHICLES
 
80.01 Definitions                     80.06 Disposal of Abandoned Vehicles
80.02 Authority to Take Possession of 80.07 Disposal of Totally Inoperable
Abandoned Vehicles                    Vehicles
80.03 Notice by Mail                  80.08 Proceeds from Sales
80.04 Notification in Newspaper       80.09 Duties of Demolisher
80.05 Fees for Impoundment
 
80.01 DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[1] & Sec. 321.90)
1.   “Abandoned vehicle” means any of the following:
   A.   A vehicle that has been left unattended on public property for more
than 24 hours and lacks current registration plates or two or more wheels or
other parts which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
   B.   A vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for more than
24 hours.
   C.   A vehicle that has been unlawfully parked or placed on private property
without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property for more
than 24 hours.
   D.   A vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of a police
authority and has not been reclaimed for a period of 10 days. However, a police
authority may declare the vehicle abandoned within the 10-day period by
commencing the notification process.
   E.   Any vehicle parked on the highway determined by a police authority to
create a hazard to other vehicle traffic.
   F.   A vehicle that has been impounded pursuant to Section 321J.4B of the
Code of Iowa by order of the court and whose owner has not paid the impoundment
fees after notification by the person or agency responsible for carrying out
the impoundment order.
2.   “Demolisher” means a person licensed under Chapter 321H of the Code of
Iowa whose business it is to convert a vehicle to junk, processed scrap or
scrap metal, or otherwise to wreck, or dismantle vehicles.
3.   “Garage keeper” means any operator of a parking place or establishment,
motor vehicle storage facility, or establishment for the servicing, repair, or
maintenance of motor vehicles.
4.   “Police authority” means the Iowa State Patrol or any law enforcement
agency of a county or city.
80.02 AUTHORITY TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
A police authority, upon the authority’s own initiative or upon the request of
any other authority having the duties of control of highways or traffic, shall
take into custody an abandoned vehicle on public property and may take into
custody any abandoned vehicle on private property. The police authority may
employ its own personnel, equipment, and facilities or hire a private entity,
equipment, and facilities for the purpose of removing, preserving, storing, or
disposing of abandoned vehicles. A property owner or other person in control of
private property may employ a private entity that is a garage keeper to dispose
of an abandoned vehicle, and the private entity may take into custody the
abandoned vehicle without a police authority’s initiative. If a police
authority employs a private entity to dispose of abandoned vehicles, the police
authority shall provide the private entity with the names and addresses of the
registered owners, all lienholders of record, and any other known claimant to
the vehicle or the personal property found in the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[2])
80.03 NOTICE BY MAIL.
The police authority or private entity that takes into custody an abandoned
vehicle shall notify, within 20 days, by certified mail, the last known
registered owner of the vehicle, all lienholders of record, and any other known
claimant to the vehicle or to personal property found in the vehicle, addressed
to the parties’ last known addresses of record, that the abandoned vehicle has
been taken into custody. Notice shall be deemed given when mailed. The notice
shall describe the year, make, model and vehicle identification number of the
vehicle, describe the personal property found in the vehicle, set forth the
location of the facility where the vehicle is being held, and inform the
persons receiving the notice of their right to reclaim the vehicle and personal
property within 10 days after the effective date of the notice upon payment of
all towing, preservation, and storage charges resulting from placing the
vehicle in custody and upon payment of the costs of the notice. The notice
shall also state that the failure of the owner, lienholders or claimants to
exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
time provided shall be deemed a waiver by the owner, lienholders and claimants
of all right, title, claim and interest in the vehicle or personal property and
that failure to reclaim the vehicle or personal property is deemed consent to
the sale of the vehicle at a public auction or disposal of the vehicle to a
demolisher and to disposal of the personal property by sale or destruction. If
the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a private entity without a
police authority’s initiative, the notice shall state that the private entity
may claim a garage keeper’s lien as described in Section 321.90 of the Code of
Iowa, and may proceed to sell or dispose of the vehicle. If the abandoned
vehicle was taken into custody by a police authority or by a private entity
hired by a police authority, the notice shall state that any person claiming
rightful possession of the vehicle or personal property who disputes the
planned disposition of the vehicle or property by the police authority or
private entity or of the assessment of fees and charges provided by this
section may ask for an evidentiary hearing before the police authority to
contest those matters. If the persons receiving notice do not ask for a hearing
or exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
10-day reclaiming period, the owner, lienholders or claimants shall no longer
have any right, title, claim, or interest in or to the vehicle or the personal
property. A court in any case in law or equity shall not recognize any right,
title, claim, or interest of the owner, lienholders or claimants after the
expiration of the 10-day reclaiming period.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.04 NOTIFICATION IN NEWSPAPER.
If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and
addresses of the last registered owner and all lienholders, notice by one
publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the area where the
vehicle was abandoned shall be sufficient to meet all requirements of notice
under Section
80.03. The published notice may contain multiple listings of abandoned vehicles
and personal property but shall be published within the same time requirements
and contain the same information as prescribed for mailed notice in Section
80.03.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3b])
80.05 FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
The owner, lienholder, or claimant shall pay all towing and storage fees as
established by the storage facility, whereupon the vehicle shall be released.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.06 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
If an abandoned vehicle has not been reclaimed as provided herein, the police
authority or private entity shall make a determination as to whether or not the
motor vehicle should be sold for use upon the highways, and shall dispose of
the motor vehicle in accordance with State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.07 DISPOSAL OF TOTALLY INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
The City or any person upon whose property or in whose possession is found any
abandoned motor vehicle, or any person being the owner of a motor vehicle whose
title certificate is faulty, lost or destroyed, may dispose of such motor
vehicle to a demolisher for junk, without a title and without notification
procedures, if such motor vehicle lacks an engine or two or more wheels or
other structural part which renders the vehicle totally inoperable. The police
authority shall give the applicant a certificate of authority. The applicant
shall then apply to the County Treasurer for a junking certificate and shall
surrender the certificate of authority in lieu of the certificate of title.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[2e])
80.08 PROCEEDS FROM SALES.
Proceeds from the sale of any abandoned vehicle shall be applied to the expense
of auction, cost of towing, preserving, storing, and notification required, in
accordance with State law. Any balance shall be held for the owner of the motor
vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days, and then shall be deposited in the
State Road Use Tax Fund. Where the sale of any vehicle fails to realize the
amount necessary to meet costs the police authority shall apply for
reimbursement from the Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.09 DUTIES OF DEMOLISHER.
Any demolisher who purchases or otherwise acquires an abandoned motor vehicle
for junk shall junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or otherwise demolish such motor
vehicle. A demolisher shall not junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or demolish a
vehicle until the demolisher has obtained the junking certificate issued for
the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[3a])
CHAPTER 90
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
90.01 Definitions                   90.10 Installation of Water Service Pipe
90.02 Superintendent’s Duties     90.11 Responsibility for Water Service Pipe
90.03 Mandatory Connections         90.12 Failure to Maintain
90.04 Abandoned Connections         90.13 Curb Valve
90.05 Permit                        90.14 Interior Valve
90.06 Compliance with Plumbing Code 90.15 Inspection and Approval
90.07 Plumber Required              90.16 Completion by the City
90.08 Excavations                   90.17 Shutting Off Water Supply
90.09 Tapping Mains                 90.18 Operation of Curb Valve and Hydrants
 
90.01 DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in the chapters in this Code of
Ordinances pertaining to the Water Service System:
1.   “Combined service account” means a customer service account for the
provision of two or more utility services.
2.   “Customer” means, in addition to any person receiving water service from
the City, the owner of the property served, and as between such parties the
duties, responsibilities, liabilities and obligations hereinafter imposed shall
be joint and several.
3.   “Superintendent” means Iowa Lakes Regional Water, its authorized agents
and representatives.
(Ord. 216 – Jun. 23 Supp.)
4.   “Water main” means a water supply pipe provided for public or community
use.
5.   “Water service pipe” means the pipe from the water main to the building
served.
6.   “Water system” or “water works” means all public facilities for securing,
collecting, storing, pumping, treating, and distributing water.
90.02 SUPERINTENDENT’S DUTIES.
The Superintendent shall supervise the installation of water service pipes and
their connection to the water main and enforce all regulations pertaining to
water services in the City in accordance with this chapter. This chapter shall
apply to all replacements of existing water service pipes as well as to new
ones. The Superintendent shall make such rules, not in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter, as may be needed for the detailed operation of the
water system, subject to the approval of the Council. In the event of an
emergency the Superintendent may make temporary rules for the protection of the
system until due consideration by the Council may be had.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
90.03 MANDATORY CONNECTIONS.
All residences and business establishments within the City limits intended or
used for human habitation, occupancy or use shall be connected to the public
water system, if it is reasonably available and if the building is not
furnished with pure and wholesome water from some other source.
90.04 ABANDONED CONNECTIONS.
When an existing water service is abandoned or a service is renewed with a new
tap in the main, all abandoned connections with the mains shall be turned off
at the corporation stop and made absolutely watertight.
90.05 PERMIT.
Before any person makes a connection with the public water system, a written
permit must be obtained from the City. The application for the permit shall
include a legal description of the property, the name of the property owner,
the name and address of the person who will do the work, and the general uses
of the water. If the proposed work meets all the requirements of this chapter
and if all fees required under this chapter have been paid, the permit shall be
issued. Work under any permit must be completed within 60 days after the permit
is issued, except that when such time period is inequitable or unfair due to
conditions beyond the control of the person making the application, an
extension of time within which to complete the work may be granted. The permit
may be revoked at any time for any violation of these chapters.
90.06 COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE.
The installation of any water service pipe and any connection with the water
system shall comply with all pertinent and applicable provisions, whether
regulatory, procedural or enforcement provisions, of the State Plumbing Code.
90.07 PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installations of water service pipes and connections to the water system
shall be made by a State-licensed plumber.
90.08 EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required in making a connection
shall be performed in accordance with the State Plumbing Code and the
provisions of
Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
90.09 TAPPING MAINS.
All taps into water mains shall be made by or under the direct supervision of
the Superintendent and in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Independent Services. No more than one house, building, or premises shall
be supplied from one tap unless special written permission is obtained from the
Superintendent and unless provision is made so that each house, building, or
premises may be shut off independently of the other.
2.   Sizes and Location of Taps. All mains six inches or less in diameter shall
receive no larger than a three-fourths inch tap. All mains of over six inches
in diameter shall receive no larger than a one-inch tap. Where a larger
connection than a one-inch tap is desired, two or more small taps or saddles
shall be used, as the Superintendent shall order. All taps in the mains shall
be made in the top half of the pipe, at least 18 inches apart. No main shall be
tapped nearer than two feet of the joint in the main.
3.   Corporation Stop. A brass corporation stop, of the pattern and weight
approved by the Superintendent, shall be inserted in every tap in the main. The
corporation stop in the main shall be of the same size as the service pipe.
4.   Location Record. An accurate and dimensional sketch showing the exact
location of the tap shall be filed with the Superintendent in such form as the
Superintendent shall require.
90.10 INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE PIPE.
Water service pipes from the main to the meter setting shall be Type K copper.
The use of any other pipe material for the service line shall first be approved
by the Superintendent. Pipe must be laid sufficiently waving, and to such
depth, as to prevent rupture from settlement or freezing.
90.11 RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER SERVICE PIPE.
It is the responsibility of each water user to maintain the service line from
the premises to the adjacent public right-of-way. Each service line shall
include a curb stop or shut-off valve located near the boundary of the adjacent
public street right-of-way. The City is responsible for maintenance and repair
of the service line from the main to the boundary of the right-of-way. If there
is no curb stop or shut-off valve, then the owner of the served property is
responsible for the maintenance and repair of the service line to the City
water main until a shut-off valve is installed. In the event of a suspected
leak in a water service line, the user shall be deemed to have authorized the
service line to be shut off until such time as the leak is confirmed and
repaired. The repair and the cost thereof is the responsibility of the water
user.
90.12 FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
When any portion of the water service pipe which is the responsibility of the
property owner becomes defective or creates a nuisance and the owner fails to
correct such nuisance, the City may do so and assess the costs thereof to the
property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a & h])
90.13 CURB VALVE.
There shall be installed within the public right-of-way a main shut-off valve
on the water service pipe of a pattern approved by the Superintendent. The
shut-off valve shall be constructed to be visible and even with the pavement or
ground.
90.14 INTERIOR VALVE.
There shall be installed a shut-off valve on every service pipe inside the
building as close to the entrance of the pipe within the building as possible
and so located that the water can be shut off conveniently. Where one service
pipe supplies more than one customer within the building, there shall be
separate valves for each such customer so that service may be shut off for one
without interfering with service to the others.
90.15 INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
All water service pipes and their connections to the water system must be
inspected and approved in writing by the Superintendent before they are
covered, and the Superintendent shall keep a record of such approvals. If the
Superintendent refuses to approve the work, the plumber or property owner must
proceed immediately to correct the work. Every person who uses or intends to
use the municipal water system shall permit the Superintendent to enter the
premises to inspect or make necessary alterations or repairs at all reasonable
hours and on proof of authority.
90.16 COMPLETION BY THE CITY.
Should any excavation be left open or only partly refilled for 24 hours after
the water service pipe is installed and connected with the water system, or
should the work be improperly done, the City shall have the right to finish or
correct the work, and the Council shall assess the costs to the property owner
or the plumber. If the plumber is assessed, the plumber must pay the costs
before receiving another permit. If the property owner is assessed, such
assessment may be collected with and in the same manner as general property
taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a & h])
90.17 SHUTTING OFF WATER SUPPLY.
The Superintendent may shut off the supply of water to any customer because of
any violation of the regulations contained in these Water Service System
chapters that is not being contested in good faith. The supply shall not be
turned on again until all violations have been corrected and the Superintendent
has ordered the water to be turned on.
90.18 OPERATION OF CURB VALVE AND HYDRANTS.
It is unlawful for any person except the Superintendent to turn water on at the
curb valve, and no person, unless specifically authorized by the City, shall
open or attempt to draw water from any fire hydrant for any purpose whatsoever.
CHAPTER 91
WATER METERS
 
91.01 Purpose                           91.06 Meter Costs
91.02 Water Use Metered                 91.07 Meter Repairs
91.03 Fire Sprinkler Systems; Exception 91.08 Right of Entry
91.04 Location of Meters                91.09 Meter Testing
91.05 Meter Setting
 
91.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to encourage the conservation of water and
facilitate the equitable distribution of charges for water service among
customers.
91.02 WATER USE METERED.
All water furnished customers shall be measured through an approved meter,
including a remote reading attachment, purchased by the resident and installed
by the City of Spirit Lake or a plumber approved by the City of Spirit Lake.
91.03 FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS; EXCEPTION.
Fire sprinkler systems may be connected to water mains by direct connection
without meters under the direct supervision of the Superintendent. No other
open, unmetered connection shall be incorporated in the system, and there shall
be no valves except a main control valve at the entrance to the building which
must be sealed open.
91.04 LOCATION OF METERS.
All meters shall be so located that they are easily accessible to meter readers
and repairmen and protected from freezing.
91.05 METER SETTING.
The property owner shall provide all necessary piping and fittings for proper
setting of the meter including a valve on the discharge side of the meter.
Meter pits may be used only upon approval of the Superintendent and shall be of
a design and construction approved by the Superintendent.
91.06 METER COSTS.
The full cost of any meter larger than that required for a single-family
residence shall be paid to the City by the property owner or customer prior to
the installation of any such meter by the City, or, at the sole option of the
City, the property owner or customer may be required to purchase and install
such meter in accordance with requirements established by the City.
91.07 METER REPAIRS.
Whenever a water meter is found to be out of order the Superintendent shall
have it repaired. If it is found that damage to the meter has occurred due to
the carelessness or negligence of the customer or property owner, or the meter
is not owned by the City, then the property owner shall be liable for the cost
of repairs. No meter shall be removed except for repair or replacement, unless
water service to the premises is terminated. All water meter repairs and
removals shall be accomplished by the City of Spirit Lake or a plumber approved
by the City of Spirit Lake.
91.08 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Superintendent shall be permitted to enter the premises of any customer at
any reasonable time to read, remove, or change a meter.
91.09 METER TESTING.
The City of Spirit Lake may inspect and test any water meter upon reasonable
advance notice. Whenever it is deemed appropriate by the City of Spirit Lake
Water Department, the water user shall be required to repair or replace the
water meter at the expense of the water user.
CHAPTER 92
WATER RATES
 
92.01 Service Charges   92.03 Billing for Water Service
92.02 Rates For Service 92.04 Temporary Vacancy
 
92.01 SERVICE CHARGES.
Each customer shall pay for water service provided by the City based upon use
of water as determined by meters provided for in
Chapter 91. Each location, building, premises or connection shall be considered
a separate and distinct customer whether owned or controlled by the same person
or not.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.02 RATES FOR SERVICE.
Water service shall be furnished in Orleans at 133% of the rates established
for the City of Spirit Lake.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.03 BILLING FOR WATER SERVICE.
Water service is billed by the City of Spirit Lake.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.04 TEMPORARY VACANCY.
A property owner may request water service be temporarily discontinued and shut
off at the curb valve when the property is expected to be vacant for 12 months
of more. If this user requests water service again in less than 12 months from
the date of discontinued service, water shall not be restored until the monthly
premium is paid for the period for which water service was discontinued. During
a period when service is temporarily discontinued as provided herein there
shall be no minimum service charge. The City will not drain pipes or pull
meters for temporary vacancies.
CHAPTER 93
WATER EMERGENCY RESPONSE PROGRAM
 
93.01 Procedure                     93.05 Response
93.02 Notification                  93.06 Notification
93.03 Emergency Conservation Levels 93.07 Violations
93.04 Conditions
 
93.01 PROCEDURE.
If a water emergency arises in the City, the Mayor is authorized to implement
those water emergency response elements determined necessary to address the
water emergency.
93.02 NOTIFICATION.
The Mayor shall see that appropriate public officials are notified and that the
City notifies the water users impacted by the emergency of their need to
participate in the water emergency response elements.
93.03 EMERGENCY CONSERVATION LEVELS.
The level of appropriate response to a water emergency will depend upon
conditions of usage and availability of supply. Three levels are established
beginning with voluntary measures up to mandatory restrictions on water usage.
The levels of response regarding a water emergency event are as follows:
1.   Water Advisory
2.   Water Warning
3.   Water Emergency
The Mayor shall determine the level and shall direct public notification
efforts.
93.04 CONDITIONS.
The following conditions are defined for determining if a water emergency
exists and the level of response by the City. The availability of water supply
will be assessed and used as contributing information in determining the level
of water emergency. The levels of emergency are as follows:
1.   Level I - Water Advisory. May be declared when water shortage or equipment
failure poses a potential threat to the ability of the water system to meet the
needs of its customers currently or in the foreseeable future. Indicators of
the need to impose a water advisory include: system operation at 75% of pumping
capacity; moderate decrease in the pumping water level of the water tower; or
other potential moderate threats to the reliable availability of water supply.
2.   Level II - Water Warning. May be declared when a water shortage or
equipment failure poses a serious threat to the ability of the water system to
meet the needs of its customers currently or in the foreseeable future.
Indicators of the need to impose a Level 2 water warning include: system
operating at 85% of pumping capacity; significant decrease in the pumping water
level of tower or significant decrease in recovery rate of water level in clear
wells; significant decrease in lake levels measured in number of feet below
spillway to number of feet above intake; severe system emergencies, such as a
chemical spill or major system failure.
3.   Level III - Water Emergency. May be declared when a water shortage or
equipment failure poses a severe and immediate threat to the ability of the
water system to meet the needs of its customers. Indicators of the need to
impose a water emergency include: system operating at 95% of pumping capacity;
serious decrease in the pumping water level of tower or serious decrease in
recovery rate of water level in tower; serious decrease in lake levels measured
in number of feet below spillway to number of feet above intake.
93.05 RESPONSE.
Upon determination of the level of water emergency, the City will respond with
the actions described in this section. Each level may encompass elements of the
preceding level. City staff will contact large water consumers first and then
implement other elements as the need arises.
1.   Level 1 - Water Advisory. Under a water advisory, all customers of the
water utility are encouraged to limit or curtail all nonessential uses of water
in order to conserve water resources during the time or shortage or equipment
failure, customers may be encouraged to comply with the following voluntary
standards:
   A.   No watering of lawns, shrubs or gardens between the hours of 8:00 A.M.
and 8:00 P.M..
   B.   No water should be used to fill private swimming pools, children’s
wading pools, reflecting pools, or any other outdoor pool or pond.
   C.   No water should be used to wash streets, parking lots, driveways,
sidewalks, or building exteriors.
   D.   No water should be used for nonessential cleaning of commercial and
industrial equipment, machinery, and interior spaces.
   E.   Water should be served at restaurants only upon the request of the
customer.
   F.   Water restrictions allowed for odd/even sprinkling by customers.
2.   Level II - Water Warning. Under a water warning, the City may impose
mandatory restrictions on the usage of water. Restrictions may be enforced
through an order that may include any or all of the listed prohibitions on the
use of potable processed water of the municipal water service.
   A.   Outdoor watering or irrigation of lawns is prohibited.
   B.   Outdoor watering of any kind is prohibited between the hours of 8:00
A.M. and 8:00 P.M. daily.
   C.   Watering or irrigation of flower and vegetable gardens, trees, and
shrubs less than four years old, and new seeding or sod is permitted once per
week with an application not to exceed one inch.
   D.   Car washing is prohibited, except in commercial establishments that
provide that service.
   E.   No water shall be used to fill private swimming pools, children’s
wading pools, reflecting pools, or any other outdoor pool or pond.
   F.   No water shall be used to wash streets, parking lots, driveways,
sidewalks or building exteriors.
   G.   No water shall be used for nonessential cleaning of commercial and
industrial equipment machinery and interior spaces.
   H.   Water shall be served at restaurants only upon the request of the
customer.
   I.   Use of water-consuming comfort air conditioning equipment that consumes
in excess of 5% of the water circulating in such equipment is prohibited.
   J.   Tank load water sales may be curtailed or prohibited.
   K.   No car washing at home.
   L.   No washing of sidewalks.
   M.   Reduce water on City parks non-play areas.
   N.   Odd/even lawn watering during the night.
   O.   No park or play field watering.
   P.   No watering of commercial or industrial landscape areas.
   Q.   Other irrigation restrictions as deemed necessary.
   R.   No City street washing, unless legally required.
   S.   Request to large water users to reduce waster use by 10%.
Water reclaiming or recycled after some primary use, such as water that has
been used for washing or cooling, may be used without restriction.
Additionally, water derived from sources other than the City water utility,
such as water condensed from the atmosphere by air conditioners or collected
from rain or snow, may be used without restriction.
3.   Level III - Water Emergency.   Under water emergency, the most stringent
restriction may be imposed. No person shall use potable processed water of the
municipal water system in any manner contrary to the following:
   A.   All outside water use, except for domestic, sanitation, and fire is
prohibited.
   B.   All commercial and industrial use of water not essential in providing
products or services is prohibited.
   C.   Irrigation of agricultural crops is prohibited.
   D.   Recreational and leisure water use, including lawn and golf course
watering and other incidental or recreational use, is prohibited.
   E.   Water use not necessary for the preservation of life or the general
welfare of the community is prohibited.
93.06 NOTIFICATION.
The Mayor will provide notice to the public when any level of the water
emergency response is made effective. Local radio and newspaper outlets will be
notified and other forms of public communication will be utilized to the extent
possible.
93.07 VIOLATIONS.
Each occurrence of violation is considered a separate infraction. In the event
that a violation is recurring arid threatens the availability of water for
public safety and health, the violator is subject to immediate disconnection
from the water system.
CHAPTER 95
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
 
95.01 Purpose         95.05 Sewer Connection Required
95.02 Definitions     95.06 Right of Entry
95.03 Superintendent  95.07 Use of Easements
95.04 Prohibited Acts 95.08 Special Penalties
 
95.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters of this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Sanitary
Sewers is to establish rules and regulations governing the treatment and
disposal of sanitary sewage within the City in order to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
95.02 DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise,
the following terms are defined:
1.   “B.O.D.” (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand) means the quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20 degrees C, expressed in milligrams per
liter or parts per million.
2.   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the
building sewer.
3.   “Building sewer” means that part of the horizontal piping from the
building wall to its connection with the main sewer or the primary treatment
portion of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system conveying the
drainage of one building site.
4.   “Combined sewer” means a sewer receiving both surface run-off and sewage.
5.   “Customer” means any person responsible for the production of domestic,
commercial, or industrial waste that is directly or indirectly discharged into
the public sewer system.
6.   “Garbage” means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of
produce.
7.   “Industrial wastes” means the liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
8.   “Inspector” means the person duly authorized by the Council to inspect and
approve the installation of building sewers and their connections to the public
sewer system; and to inspect such sewage as may be discharged therefrom.
9.   “Natural outlet” means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake,
or other body of surface or groundwater.
10.   “On-site wastewater treatment and disposal system” means all equipment
and devices necessary for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment,
and disposal of wastewater from four or fewer dwelling units or other
facilities serving the equivalent of 15 persons (1,500 gpd) or less.
11.   “pH” means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions
in grams per liter of solution.
12.   “Public sewer” means a sewer in which all owners of abutting properties
have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
13.   “Sanitary sewage” means sewage discharging from the sanitary conveniences
of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office buildings,
factories, or institutions, and free from storm, surface water, and industrial
waste.
14.   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer that carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
15.   “Sewage” means a combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with
such ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
16.   “Sewage treatment plant” means any arrangement of devices and structures
used for treating sewage.
17.   “Sewage works” or “sewage system” means all facilities for collecting,
pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage.
18.   “Sewer” means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
19.   “Sewer service charges” means any and all charges, rates or fees levied
against and payable by customers, as consideration for the servicing of said
customers by said sewer system.
20.   “Slug” means any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste that in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
21.   “Storm drain” or “storm sewer” means a sewer that carries storm and
surface waters and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
22.   “Superintendent” means the Superintendent of sewage works and/or of water
pollution control of the City or any authorized deputy, agent, or
representative.
23.   “Suspended solids” means solids that either float on the surface of, or
are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and that are removable by
laboratory filtering.
24.   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
95.03 SUPERINTENDENT.
The City of Orleans sanitary sewer service is provided by the Iowa Great Lakes
Sanitary District. The Superintendent is the manager of the Iowa Great Lakes
Sanitary District and shall exercise the following powers and duties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Operation and Maintenance. Operate and maintain the City sewage system.
2.   Inspection and Tests. Conduct necessary inspections and tests to assure
compliance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
3.   Records. Maintain a complete and accurate record of all sewers, sewage
connections and manholes constructed showing the location and grades thereof.
95.04 PROHIBITED ACTS.
No person shall do, or allow, any of the following:
1.   Damage Sewer System. Maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment that is a part of the sewer system.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
2.   Surface Run-Off or Groundwater. Connect a roof downspout, sump pump,
exterior foundation drain, areaway drain, or other source of surface run-off or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
3.   Manholes. Open or enter any manhole of the sewer system, except by
authority of the Superintendent.
4.   Objectionable Wastes. Place or deposit in any unsanitary manner on public
or private property within the City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
5.   Septic Tanks. Construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage except
as provided in these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
6.   Untreated Discharge. Discharge to any natural outlet within the City, or
in any area under its jurisdiction, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
95.05 SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
The owners of any houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in
the future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer, are hereby required
to install, at such owner’s expense, suitable toilet facilities therein and a
building sewer connecting such facilities directly with the proper public
sewer, and to maintain the same all in accordance with the provisions of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters, such compliance to be completed within 60 days after
date of official notice from the City to do so provided that said public sewer
is located within 100 feet of the property line of such owner and is of such
design as to receive and convey by gravity such sewage as may be conveyed to
it. Billing for sanitary sewer service will begin the date of official notice
to connect to the public sewer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
95.06 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
The Superintendent or representatives shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper,
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
95.07 USE OF EASEMENTS.
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
95.08 SPECIAL PENALTIES.
The following special penalty provisions shall apply to violations of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters:
1.   Notice of Violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of
these chapters except Subsections 1, 3, and 4 of Section
95.04, shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
2.   Continuing Violations. Any person who shall continue any violation beyond
the time limit provided for in Subsection 1 hereof shall be in violation of
this Code of Ordinances. Each day in which any such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
3.   Liability Imposed. Any person violating any of the provisions of these
chapters shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the City by reason of such violation.
CHAPTER 96
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
96.01 IOWA GREAT LAKES SANITARY DISTRICT.
The rules and regulations of the Iowa Great Lakes Sanitary District apply to
the building sewers and connections in the City of Orleans. † 7
 
Notes
7 † EDITOR’S NOTE: On July 8, 1949 the residents of Orleans voted to form the
  Sanitary District.
CHAPTER 97
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
 
97.01 Storm Water              97.05 Restricted Discharges; Powers of
                               Superintendent
97.02 Surface Waters Exception 97.06 Special Facilities
97.03 Prohibited Discharges    97.07 Control Manholes
97.04 Restricted Discharges    97.08 Testing of Wastes
 
97.01 STORM WATER.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, groundwater, roof run-off, sub-surface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer. Storm
water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers that
are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process waters may be discharged on approval of the Superintendent, to a storm
sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
97.02 SURFACE WATERS EXCEPTION.
Special permits for discharging surface waters to a public sanitary sewer may
be issued by the Council upon recommendation of the Superintendent where such
discharge is deemed necessary or advisable for purposes of flushing, but any
permit so issued shall be subject to revocation at any time when deemed to the
best interests of the sewer system.
97.03 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
1.   Flammable or Explosive Material. Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil,
or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
2.   Toxic or Poisonous Materials. Any waters or wastes containing toxic or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or
create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant,
including but not limited to cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter as
CN in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
3.   Corrosive Wastes. Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
4.   Solid or Viscous Substances. Solid or viscous substances in quantities or
of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not
limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
5.   Excessive B.O.D., Solids or Flow.
   A.   Any waters or wastes: (i) having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand
greater than 300 parts per million by weight; or (ii) containing more than 350
parts per million by weight of suspended solids; or (iii) having an average
daily flow greater than two percent of the average sewage flow of the City,
shall be subject to the review of the Superintendent.
   B.   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner shall
provide, at the owner’s expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to: (i) reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight; or (ii) reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
or (iii) control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes. Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced
until said approvals are obtained in writing.
97.04 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances restricted are:
1.   High Temperature. Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150
degrees F (65 degrees C).
2.   Fat, Oil, Grease. Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils,
whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or 600
milligrams per liter of dispersed or other soluble matter.
3.   Viscous Substances. Water or wastes containing substances that may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 degrees F and 150 degrees
F (0 degrees to 65 degrees C).
4.   Garbage. Any garbage that has not been properly shredded, that is, to such
a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions
normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half
inch in any dimension.
5.   Acids. Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not.
6.   Toxic or Objectionable Wastes. Any waters or wastes containing iron,
chromium, copper, zinc, and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or
wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such
material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials.
7.   Odor or Taste. Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or
odor producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits that may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of State, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
8.   Radioactive Wastes. Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life
or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable State or federal regulations.
9.   Excess Alkalinity. Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
10.   Unusual Wastes. Materials that exert or cause:
   A.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
   B.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
   C.   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in such
quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works.
   D.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting “slugs”
as defined herein.
11.   Noxious or Malodorous Gases. Any noxious or malodorous gas or other
substance that, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, is capable
of creating a public nuisance or hazard to life or of preventing entry into
sewers for their maintenance and repair.
12.   Damaging Substances. Any waters, wastes, materials, or substances that
react with water or wastes in the sewer system to release noxious gases,
develop color of undesirable intensity, form suspended solids in objectionable
concentration or create any other condition deleterious to structures and
treatment processes.
13.   Untreatable Wastes. Waters or wastes containing substances that are not
amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed,
or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment
plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
97.05 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES; POWERS OF SUPERINTENDENT.
If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the
public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in Section
97.04 and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
1.   Rejection. Reject the wastes by requiring disconnection from the public
sewage system;
2.   Pretreatment. Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for
discharge to the public sewers;
3.   Controls Imposed. Require control over the quantities and rates of
discharge; and/or
97.06 SPECIAL FACILITIES.
If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws. Where preliminary treatment or
flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
the owner’s expense.
97.07 CONTROL MANHOLES.
When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at the owner’s
expense, and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
97.08 TESTING OF WASTES.
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids analyses are obtained
from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined from
periodic grab samples).
CHAPTER 98
ON-SITE WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
 
98.01 When Prohibited             98.05 Discharge Restrictions
98.02 When Required               98.06 Maintenance of System
98.03 Compliance with Regulations 98.07 Systems Abandoned
98.04 Permit Required             98.08 Disposal of Septage
 
98.01 WHEN PROHIBITED.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.02 WHEN REQUIRED.
When a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of Section
95.05, every building wherein persons reside, congregate or are employed shall
be provided with an approved on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system
complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
98.03 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system shall comply with the specifications and
requirements set forth by the Iowa Administrative Code 567, Chapter 69, and
with such additional requirements as are prescribed by the regulations of the
County Board of Health.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3 & 4])
98.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall install or alter an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system without first obtaining a permit from the County Board of Health.
98.05 DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.
It is unlawful to discharge any wastewater from an on-site wastewater treatment
and disposal system (except under an NPDES permit) to any ditch, stream, pond,
lake, natural or artificial waterway, drain tile or to the surface of the
ground.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
98.06 MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
The owner of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system shall operate
and maintain the system in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to
the City.
98.07 SYSTEMS ABANDONED.
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by an on-
site wastewater treatment and disposal system, as provided in Section
95.05, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
these Sanitary Sewer chapters and the on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.08 DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE.
No person shall dispose of septage from an on-site treatment system at any
location except an approved disposal site.
CHAPTER 100
STORMWATER UTILITY
 
100.01 Storm Water Utility District No. 100.06 Change of Ownership
1 Created
100.02 Definitions                      100.07 Finance Charges
100.03 Storm Water Utility Owner Charge 100.08 Collection of Unpaid Storm Water
                                        Utility Charges
100.04 Calculation and Imposition of    100.09 Adoption of Rules,
Charge                                  Interpretations and Appeals
100.05 Billing                          100.10 Use of Funds
 
100.01 STORM WATER UTILITY DISTRICT NO. 1 CREATED.
There is hereby created the “Orleans Storm Water Utility District No. 1” as
described in “Exhibit A” included in the Appendix and incorporated herein by
this reference.
100.02 DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined.
1.   “Benefit Unit” means a measurement unit based on an area of ten thousand
(10,000) square feet. The number of benefit units is multiplied by the zoning
classification adjustment to determine the number of benefit units for a
specific parcel. The zoning classification multipliers have been determined and
are set out in the table attached hereto, identified as “Exhibit B” and
incorporated herein. To obtain the “units of benefit” for a particular parcel,
the area is divided by 10,000 and the product is multiplied by the zoning
adjustment factor of the zoning district where the property is located. For
example, a commercial property of 22,500 square feet equates to 2.4232 units of
benefit (22,500 x 1.077=24,232.4 ÷ 10,000 = 2.4232).
2.   “District” means the “Orleans Storm Water Utility District No l.”
3.   “Owner” means the legal owner(s) of record as shown on the tax rolls of
Dickinson Count; or where there is a recorded real estate contract, the vendee.
100.03 STORM WATER UTILITY OWNER CHARGE.
There is hereby established an ·Orleans Storm Water Utility District No. 1
charge. This charge is imposed on every owner of property within the District
commencing on the first day of January, 2007. The charge due for the billing
period shall be the obligation of the owner.
100.04 CALCULATION AND IMPOSITION OF CHARGE.
1.   The Owner of each parcel of real property in the District shall incur, and
shall be required to pay, a storm water utility charge determined by
multiplying the units of benefit of the property times the basic unit rate,
which shall be established by the Council from time-to-time by adoption of an
ordinance,
2.   The City’s consulting engineer for Orleans Storm Water .Utility District
No. 1 has determined and prepared a table for each current real estate parcel
within the District, all as set forth in the table attached hereto as “Exhibit
C” and incorporated herein by this reference. The table includes a parcel ID
number, the parcel number assigned by Dickinson County, an abbreviated legal
description, the owner, the owner’s address, the computed area, the current
zoning factor and the current Units of Benefit for each parcel.
3.   As parcels are divided or combined, Units of Benefit for each new parcel
will be determined.
100.05 BILLING.
1.   The billing periods shall be semi-annual ending June 30th and December
31st.
2.   Following the end of a billing period, the City shall send a bill for the
storm water utility charge due to every owner of property in the district by
regular mail. The statement shall be sent within ten days of the billing
period; shall be due upon receipt; and shall be considered delinquent if not
paid by the last day of the month in which the statement was issued.
100.06 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP.
Changes of ownership for Orleans Storm Water Utility District No. 1 billing
purposes shall be effective only at the of each quarterly billing period. If
there is a transfer of ownership, either the seller or the buyer shall advise
the City, in writing, of the change in ownership. Beginning with the ·first
billing quarter that commences following the City’s receipt of notice of change
in ownership, the bill shall be mailed to the new owner.
100.07 FINANCE CHARGES.
There shall be finance charge of one and one-half percent per month imposed on
any storm water utility charge made by the City that is not paid by the
delinquent date.
100.08 COLLECTION OF UNPAID STORM WATER UTILITY CHARGES.
1.   Delinquent storm Water utility charges are a lien against the property
served. When charges become delinquent, the City may certify the delinquent
charges to the Dickinson County Treasurer to be collected in the same manner as
real property taxes, pursuant to the provisions of Section 384.84 of the Code
of Iowa.
2.   A lien for storm water utility charges shall not be certified to the
County Treasurer for collection unless prior written notice of intent to
certify a lien is given to the owner. The. notice shall be sent to the owner by
ordinary mail not less than 10 days prior to certificate of the lien to the
County Treasurer.
3.   An administrative fee of $5.00 shall be added to the delinquent account
certified to the County Treasurer for collection.
4.   In addition to the foregoing collection procedures, as authorized under
Section 384.84 of the Iowa Code, the City shall also have and reserve the right
to collect unpaid storm water utility charges by filing an action for
collection in the Dickinson County Small Claims Court.
100.09 ADOPTION OF RULES, INTERPRETATIONS AND APPEALS.
1.   The Council may, by resolution, adopt rules pertaining to matters within
the scope of this ordinance.
2.   Appels. The following may be appealed to the Council.
   A.   A determination that a person is obligated to pay the storm water
utility fee imposed herein;
   B.   A dispute as to the proper calculation of the amount due.
3.   Such appeals shall not include appeals to the overall establishment of
District or the amount charged per Benefit Unit as established by the Council.
4.   An appeal shall be filed, in writing, and must he actually received by the
City not later than thirty (3.0) days after the action appealed.
5.   The appeal shall be heard by the Council in an informal proceeding. The
appellant shall be provided reasonable opportunities to submit written and oral
support for the appellant’s position. The Council shall issue written decision
within 30 days of the hearing.
6.   Failure to properly exhaust the administrative remedy provided herein
shall constitute a bar to judicial relief.
100.10 USE OF FUNDS.
The funds paid and collected pursuant to this chapter shall be held by the City
in a special fund to be expended only for the purpose of constructing,
operating, repairing and maintaining all kinds of conduits, drains, storm water
detention devices, flow impediments, ponds, ditches, drainage ways, erosion
control devices, and appurtenances within the district; or to replenish funds
expended by the City that have been expended for the construction of such
improvements to serve the district; or to repay the outstanding loans to the
City used to finance storm water utility improvements constructed by the City
to serve the District.
CHAPTER 105
SOLID WASTE CONTROL
 
105.01 Purpose                           105.07 Storage of Yard Waste
105.02 Definitions                       105.08 Littering Prohibited
105.03 Sanitary Disposal Required        105.09 Toxic and Hazardous Waste
105.04 Health and Fire Hazard            105.10 Waste Storage Containers
105.05 Open Burning Restricted           105.11 Prohibited Practices
105.06 Separation of Yard Waste Required 105.12 Sanitary Disposal Required
 
105.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters in this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Solid
Waste Control and Collection is to provide for the sanitary storage,
collection, and disposal of solid waste and, thereby, to protect the citizens
of the City from such hazards to their health, safety and welfare as may result
from the uncontrolled disposal of solid waste.
105.02 DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters the following terms are defined:
1.   “Collector” means any person authorized to gather solid waste from public
and private places.
2.   “Discard” means to place, cause to be placed, throw, deposit, or drop.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[1])
3.   “Dwelling unit” means any room or group of rooms located within a
structure and forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used or
are intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
4.   “Garbage” means all solid and semisolid, putrescible animal and vegetable
waste resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing, serving and
consuming of food or of material intended for use as food, and all offal,
excluding useful industrial by-products, and includes all such substances from
all public and private establishments and from all residences.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
5.   “Landscape waste” means any vegetable or plant waste except garbage. The
term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves,
grass, shrubbery, and yard trimmings.
(IAC, 567-20.2[455B])
6.   “Litter” means any garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, waste materials, or
debris not exceeding 10 pounds in weight or 15 cubic feet in volume. Litter
includes but is not limited to empty beverage containers, cigarette butts, food
waste packaging, other food or candy wrappers, handbills, empty cartons, or
boxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[2])
7.   “Owner” means, in addition to the record titleholder, any person residing
in, renting, leasing, occupying, operating or transacting business in any
premises, and as between such parties the duties, responsibilities, liabilities
and obligations hereinafter imposed shall be joint and several.
8.   “Refuse” means putrescible and non-putrescible waste, including but not
limited to garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator residues, street cleanings,
market and industrial solid waste and sewage treatment waste in dry or
semisolid form.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
9.   “Residential premises” means a single-family dwelling and any multiple-
family dwelling.
10.   “Residential waste” means any refuse generated on the premises as a
result of residential activities. The term includes landscape waste grown on
the premises or deposited thereon by the elements, but excludes garbage, tires,
trade wastes and any locally recyclable goods or plastics.
(IAC, 567-20.2[455B])
11.   “Rubbish” means non-putrescible solid waste consisting of combustible and
non-combustible waste, such as ashes, paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, or litter of any kind.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
12.   “Sanitary disposal” means a method of treating solid waste so that it
does not produce a hazard to the public health or safety or create a nuisance.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
13.   “Sanitary disposal project” means all facilities and appurtenances
(including all real and personal property connected with such facilities) that
are acquired, purchased, constructed, reconstructed, equipped, improved,
extended, maintained, or operated to facilitate the final disposition of solid
waste without creating a significant hazard to the public health or safety, and
which are approved by the Director of the State Department of Natural
Resources. “Sanitary disposal project” does not include a pyrolysis or
gasification facility as defined in Section 455B.301 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
14.   “Solid waste” means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar discarded
solid or semisolid materials, including but not limited to such materials
resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic activities.
Solid waste may include vehicles, as defined in Section 321.1 of the Code of
Iowa. Solid waste does not include any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
   A.   Hazardous waste regulated under the Federal Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6921-6934.
   B.   Hazardous waste as defined in Section 455B.411 of the Code of Iowa,
except to the extent that rules allowing for the disposal of specific wastes
have been adopted by the State Environmental Protection Commission.
   C.   Source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined in the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended to January 1, 1979.
   D.   Petroleum contaminated soil that has been remediated to acceptable
State or Federal standards.
   E.   Steel slag which is a product resulting from the steel manufacturing
process and is managed as an item of value in a controlled manner and not as a
discarded material.
   F.   Material that is legitimately recycled pursuant to Section 455D.4A of
the Code of Iowa.
   G.   Post-use polymers or recoverable feedstocks that are any of the
following:
      (1)   Processed at a pyrolysis or gasification facility.
      (2)   Held at a pyrolysis or gasification facility prior to processing to
ensure production is not interrupted.
105.03 SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
It is the duty of each owner to provide for the sanitary disposal of all refuse
accumulating on the owner’s premises before it becomes a nuisance. Any such
accumulation remaining on any premises for a period of more than 30 days shall
be deemed a nuisance and the City may proceed to abate such nuisances in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 50 or by initiating proper action in district court.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 657)
105.04 HEALTH AND FIRE HAZARD.
It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any premises, improved
or vacant, or on any public place, such quantities of solid waste that
constitute a health, sanitation or fire hazard.
105.05 OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED.
No person shall allow, cause or permit open burning of combustible materials
where the products of combustion are emitted into the open air without passing
through a chimney or stack, except that open burning is permitted in the
following circumstances:
(IAC, 567-23.2[455B] and 567-100.2)
1.   Disaster Rubbish. The open burning of rubbish, including landscape waste,
for the duration of the community disaster period in cases where an officially
declared emergency condition exists, provided that the burning of any
structures or demolished structures is conducted in accordance with 40 CFR
Section 61.145.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3a])
2.   Trees and Tree Trimmings. The open burning of trees and tree trimmings at
a City-operated burning site, provided such burning is conducted in compliance
with the rules established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3b])
3.   Flare Stacks. The open burning or flaring of waste gases, provided such
open burning or flaring is conducted in compliance with applicable rules of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3c])
4.   Landscape Waste. The disposal by open burning of landscape waste
originating on the premises. However, the burning of landscape waste produced
in clearing, grubbing and construction operations shall be limited to areas
located at least one-fourth mile from any building inhabited by other than the
landowner or tenant conducting the open burning. Rubber tires shall not be used
to ignite landscape waste.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3d])
5.   Recreational Fires. Open fires for cooking, heating, recreation, and
ceremonies, provided they comply with the limits for emission of visible air
contaminants established by the State Department of Natural Resources. Rubber
tires shall not be burned in a recreational fire.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3e])
6.   Training Fires. Fires set for the purpose of conducting bona fide training
of public or industrial employees in firefighting methods, provided that the
training fires are conducted in compliance with rules established by the State
Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3g])
7.   Controlled Burning of a Demolished Building. The controlled burning of a
demolished building by the City, subject to approval of the Council, provided
that the controlled burning is conducted in accordance with rules and
limitations established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3j])
8.   Variance. Any person wishing to conduct open burning of materials not
permitted herein may make application for a variance to the Director of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[2])
105.06 SEPARATION OF YARD WASTE REQUIRED.
All yard waste shall be separated by the owner or occupant from all other solid
waste accumulated on the premises and shall be composted or burned on the
premises or placed in acceptable containers and set out for collection. As used
in this section, “yard waste” means any debris such as grass clippings, leaves,
garden waste, brush, and trees. Yard waste does not include tree stumps.
105.07 STORAGE OF YARD WASTE.
All yard wastes shall be stored in containers so constructed and maintained as
to prevent the dispersal of wastes placed therein upon the premises served,
upon adjacent premises, or upon adjacent public rights-of-way. Tree limbs less
than four inches in diameter and brush shall be securely tied in bundles not
larger than 48 inches long and 18 inches in diameter when not placed in storage
containers. The weight of any individual bundle or container shall not exceed
50 pounds.
105.08 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
No person shall discard any litter onto or in any water or land, except that
nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authorized collection
and discarding of such litter in or on areas or receptacles provided for such
purpose. When litter is discarded from a motor vehicle, the driver of the motor
vehicle shall be responsible for the act in any case where doubt exists as to
which occupant of the motor vehicle actually discarded the litter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.363)
105.09 TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS WASTE.
No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for
collection any toxic or hazardous waste. Such materials shall be transported
and disposed of as prescribed by the Director of the State Department of
Natural Resources. As used in this section, “toxic and hazardous waste” means
waste materials, including (but not limited to) poisons, pesticides,
herbicides, acids, caustics, pathological waste, flammable or explosive
materials, and similar harmful waste that requires special handling and that
must be disposed of in such a manner as to conserve the environment and protect
the public health and safety.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
(IAC, 567-102.13[2] and 400-27.14[2])
105.10 WASTE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing, or renting any premises,
dwelling unit or any place where refuse accumulates shall provide and at all
times maintain in good order and repair portable containers for refuse in
accordance with the following:
1.   Containers. Solid waste containers shall be provided by the City. In the
event a residence is sold, the bin remains with the property.
2.   Weight. The total weight of any container and contents shall not exceed 50
pounds.
3.   Storage of Containers. Residential solid waste containers shall be stored
upon the residential premises. Commercial solid waste containers shall be
stored upon private property, unless the owner has been granted written
permission from the City to use public property for such purposes. The storage
site shall be well drained and fully accessible to collection equipment, public
health personnel, and fire inspection personnel. All owners of residential and
commercial premises shall be responsible for proper storage of all garbage and
yard waste to prevent materials from being blown or scattered around
neighboring yards and streets.
4.   Location of Containers for Collection. Containers for the storage of solid
waste awaiting collection shall be placed within five feet of the curb or alley
line by the owner or occupant of the premises served, along the truck’s
collection route. Containers or other solid waste placed at the curb line by 7:
00 A.M. and shall be promptly removed from the curb line following collection.
5.   Books, magazines and newspapers in large quantities must be tied in bales
or in a disposable container not exceeding 50 pounds.
105.11 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
It is unlawful for any person to:
1.   Unlawful Use of Containers. Deposit refuse in any solid waste containers
not owned by such person without the written consent of the owner of such
containers.
2.   Interfere with Collectors. Interfere in any manner with solid waste
collection equipment or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance
of their duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors be those of the
City, or those of any other authorized waste collection service.
3.   Incinerators. Burn rubbish or garbage except in incinerators designed for
high temperature operation, in which solid, semisolid, liquid, or gaseous
combustible refuse is ignited and burned efficiently, and from which the solid
residues contain little or no combustible material, as acceptable to the
Environmental Protection Commission.
4.   Scavenging. Take or collect any solid waste that has been placed out for
collection on any premises, unless such person is an authorized solid waste
collector.
105.12 SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
It is the duty of each property owner to provide for the sanitary disposal of
all refuse accumulating on his or her premises. It shall be unlawful for any
person to permit such accumulation of refuse to remain upon any premises for a
period of more than seven days.
CHAPTER 106
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
 
106.01 Collection Service      106.06 Right of Entry
106.02 Collection Vehicles     106.07 Contract Requirements
106.03 Loading                 106.08 Collection Fees
106.04 Frequency of Collection 106.09 Recycling Program
106.05 Bulky Rubbish
 
106.01 COLLECTION SERVICE.
The City shall provide by contract for the collection of all solid waste except
bulky rubbish as provided in Section
106.05 within the City.
106.02 COLLECTION VEHICLES.
Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of garbage
and similar putrescible waste or solid waste containing such materials shall be
leak-proof, durable and of easily cleanable construction. They shall be cleaned
to prevent nuisances, pollution, or insect breeding and shall be maintained in
good repair.
(IAC, 567-104.9[455B])
106.03 LOADING.
Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of any solid
waste shall be loaded and moved in such a manner that the contents will not
fall, leak, or spill therefrom, and shall be covered to prevent blowing or loss
of material. Where spillage does occur, the material shall be picked up
immediately by the collector or transporter and returned to the vehicle or
container and the area properly cleaned.
106.04 FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
All solid waste shall be collected from residential premises curbside on Monday
and Thursday mornings from May through September and on Monday mornings from
October through April.
106.05 BULKY RUBBISH.
Bulky rubbish that is too large or heavy to be collected in the normal manner
of other solid waste may be collected by the collector upon request in
accordance with procedures established by the Council.
106.06 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
Solid waste collectors are hereby authorized to enter upon private property for
the purpose of collecting solid waste, as required by this chapter; however,
solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling units or other residential
buildings.
106.07 CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.
No person shall engage in the business of collecting, transporting, processing
or disposing of solid waste from residential premises for the City without
first entering into a contract with the City. This section does not prohibit an
owner from transporting solid waste accumulating upon premises owned, occupied
or used by such owner, provided such refuse is disposed of properly in an
approved sanitary disposal project. Furthermore, a contract is not required for
the removal, hauling, or disposal of earth and rock material from grading or
excavation activities, provided that all such materials are conveyed in tight
vehicles, trucks or receptacles so constructed and maintained that none of the
material being transported is spilled upon any public right-of-way.
106.08 COLLECTION FEES.
The collection and disposal of solid waste as provided by this chapter are
declared to be beneficial to the property served or eligible to be served. The
City does not charge for the service.
(Goreham vs. Des Moines, 1970, 179 NW 2nd, 449)
106.09 RECYCLING PROGRAM.
The City shall provide for the collection of recyclable materials in accordance
with the rules and regulations set by resolution of the Council. A bin is
located at 140th Street, one block south and one-half block east of City Hall.
CHAPTER 110
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
110.01 Franchise Granted                           110.09 Confidential
                                                   Information
110.02 Term                                        110.10 Force Majeure
110.03 Franchise Fees or Taxes                     110.11 Hold Harmless
110.04 Governing Rules and Regulations             110.12 Successors and
                                                   Assigns
110.05 Provision for Inadequate Energy Supplies    110.13 No Third Party
                                                   Beneficiaries
110.06 Construction and Maintenance of Grantee’s 110.14 Non-Waiver
Facilities
110.07 Extension of Grantee’s Facilities         110.15 Effective Date and
                                                   Acceptance
110.08 Relocation of Grantee’s Facilities
 
110.01 FRANCHISE GRANTED.  
The City of Orleans, Iowa (hereinafter referred to as “Grantor”), hereby grants
a non-exclusive franchise to Black Hills/Iowa Gas Utility Company, LLC d/b/
a Black Hills Energy, a Delaware limited liability corporation (hereinafter
called “Grantee”), its lessees, successors and assigns. Grantee is hereby
granted the right, privilege, franchise, permission and authority to lay,
construct, install, maintain, operate and extend in, along, over, above or
across the present and future streets, alleys, avenues, bridges, public rights-
of-way and public easements as are now within the present or future limits of
said Grantor, a natural gas distribution system and all facilities necessary
for the purpose of supplying natural gas or processed gas and other operations
connected therewith or incident thereto for all purposes to the inhabitants of
said Grantor and consumers in the vicinity thereof, and for the distribution of
natural gas from or through said Grantor to points beyond the limits thereof.
Such facilities shall include, but not be limited to, all mains, services,
pipes, poles, communication devices, conduits and all other apparatus and
appliances necessary or convenient for transporting, distributing and supplying
natural gas for all purposes for which it may be used, and to do all other
things necessary and proper in providing natural gas service to the inhabitants
of Grantor and in carrying on such business.
110.02 TERM.
The rights and privileges granted hereunder shall remain in effect for a period
of 25 years from the effective date of the ordinance codified by this chapter.†
8 The Grantor may cancel this franchise on the 15th or 20th anniversary of this
agreement by notifying the Grantee in writing of its desire to do so, said
notification to be given not less than one hundred and eighty days before the
15th or 20th anniversary, respectively, of this agreement.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 112, adopting a natural gas franchise for the
8 City, was passed and adopted on September 8, 2014.
   
110.03 FRANCHISE FEES OR TAXES.  
Grantor may, during the term of this franchise, in its discretion, in
compliance with and as authorized by State law, after public hearing and upon a
majority vote of a majority of the members of the Grantor’s City Council then
present, pass an ordinance imposing a franchise fee on Grantee’s customers
located within Grantor’s corporate limits; provided, however, that the
franchise fee shall not be effective, and Grantee shall not be obligated to
collect and pay same, unless and until: (i) it is satisfactory to Grantee with
respect to its compatibility with Grantee’s billing system; (ii) the form of
assessment and collection of the franchise fee is based on either: (a) a
percentage of Grantee’s gross receipts of regulated sales or transportation
revenues collected from Grantee’s customers within Grantor’s corporate limits;
(b) a volumetric fee based upon Grantee’s delivery of energy within Grantor’s
corporate limits; or (c) a flat fee collected on a nondiscriminatory basis from
each of Grantee’s customers within Grantor’s corporate limits; and (iii)
Grantor has imposed a franchise fee on all other parties supplying energy
within Grantor’s corporate limits, calculated in the same manner as the
franchise fee imposed on Grantee’s customers. Grantor and Grantee will
cooperate with each other to ensure that the franchise fee is properly
collected and that such collection does not impose burdens on either Grantee or
Grantor.
110.04 GOVERNING RULES AND REGULATIONS.
The franchise granted hereunder is subject to all conditions, limitations and
immunities now provided for, or as hereafter amended, and applicable to the
operations of a public utility, by State or Federal law. The rates to be
charged by Grantee for service within the present or future corporate limits of
Grantor and the rules and regulations regarding the character, quality and
standards of service to be furnished by Grantee, shall be under the
jurisdiction and control of such regulatory body or bodies as may, from time to
time, be vested by law with authority and jurisdiction over the rates,
regulations and quality and standards of service to be supplied by Grantee.
Provided however, should any judicial, regulatory or legislative body having
proper jurisdiction take any action that precludes Grantee from recovering from
its customers any cost associated with services provided hereunder, then
Grantee and Grantor shall renegotiate the terms of this Ordinance in accordance
with the action taken. In determining the rights and duties of the Grantee, the
terms of this Ordinance shall take precedence over any conflicting terms or
requirements contained in any other ordinance enacted by the Grantor.
110.05 PROVISION FOR INADEQUATE ENERGY SUPPLIES.  
If an energy supplier is unable to furnish an adequate supply of energy due to
an emergency, an order or decision of a public regulatory body, or other acts
beyond the control of the Grantee, then the Grantee shall have the right and
authority to adopt reasonable rules and regulations limiting, curtailing or
allocating extensions of service or supply of energy to any customers or
prospective customers, and withholding the supply of energy to new customers,
provided that such rules and regulations shall be uniform as applied to each
class of customers or prospective customers, and shall be non-discriminatory as
between communities receiving service from the Grantee.
110.06 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF GRANTEE’S FACILITIES.  
Any pavements, sidewalks or curbing taken up and any and all excavations made
shall be done in such a manner as to cause only such inconvenience to the
inhabitants of Grantor and the general public as is reasonably necessary, and
repairs and replacements shall be made promptly by Grantee, leaving such
properties in as good a condition as existed immediately prior to excavation.
Grantee agrees that for the term of this franchise, it will use its best
efforts to maintain its facilities and equipment in a condition sufficient to
meet the current and future energy requirements of Grantor, its inhabitants and
industries. While maintaining its facilities and equipment, Grantee shall
obtain permits as required by ordinance and will fix its excavations within a
commercially reasonable time period, except that in emergency situations
Grantee shall take such immediate unilateral actions as it determines are
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; in which case,
Grantee shall notify Grantor as soon as reasonably possible. Within a
reasonable time thereafter, Grantee shall request and Grantor shall issue any
permits or authorizations required by Grantor for the actions conducted by
Grantee during the emergency situation. Grantor will give Grantee reasonable
notice of plans for street improvements where paving or resurfacing of a
permanent nature is involved that affects Grantee’s facilities. The notice
shall contain the nature and character of the improvements, the rights-of-way
upon which the improvements are to be made, the extent of the improvements, and
the time when the Grantor will start the work, and, if more than one right-of-
way is involved, the order in which the work is to proceed. The notice shall be
given to the Grantee as soon as practical in advance of the actual commencement
of the work, considering seasonable working conditions, to permit the Grantee
to make any additions, alterations, or repairs to its facilities.
110.07 EXTENSION OF GRANTEE’S FACILITIES.  
Upon receipt and acceptance of a valid application for service, Grantee shall,
subject to its own economic feasibility criteria as approved by the Iowa
Utilities Board make reasonable extensions of its distribution facilities to
serve customers located within the current or future corporate limits of
Grantor.
110.08 RELOCATION OF GRANTEE’S FACILITIES.
If Grantor elects to change the grade of or otherwise alter any street, alley,
avenue, bridge, public right-of-way or public place for a public purpose,
unless otherwise reimbursed by Federal, State or local legislative act or
governmental agency, Grantee, upon reasonable notice from Grantor, shall remove
and relocate its facilities or equipment situated in the public rights-of-way,
at the cost and expense of Grantee, if such removal is necessary to prevent
interference with Grantor’s facilities. If Grantor orders or requests Grantee
to relocate its facilities or equipment for the primary benefit of a commercial
or private project, or as a result of the initial request of a commercial or
private developer or other non-public entity, and such removal is necessary to
prevent interference with such project, then Grantee shall receive payment for
the cost of such relocation as a precondition to relocating its facilities or
equipment. Grantor shall consider reasonable alternatives in designing its
public works projects and exercising its authority under this section so as not
to arbitrarily cause Grantee unreasonable additional expense. If alternative
public right-of-way space is available, Grantor shall also provide a reasonable
alterative location for Grantee’s facilities. Grantor shall give Grantee
written notice of an order or request to vacate a public right-of-way;
provided, however, that its receipt of such notice shall not deprive Grantee of
its right to operate and maintain its existing facilities in such public right-
of way until it (i) if applicable, receives the reasonable cost of relocating
the same and (ii) obtains a reasonable public right-of-way, dedicated utility
easement, or private easement alterative location for such facilities.
110.09 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.  
Grantor acknowledges that certain information it might request from Grantee
pursuant to this Ordinance may be of a proprietary and confidential nature, and
that such requests may be subject to the Homeland Security Act or other
confidentiality protections under State or Federal law. If Grantee requests
that any information provided by Grantee to Grantor be kept confidential due to
its proprietary or commercial value, Grantor and its employees, agents and
representatives shall maintain the confidentiality of such information, to the
extent allowed by law. If Grantor is requested or required by legal or
administrative process to disclose any such proprietary or confidential
information, Grantor shall promptly notify Grantee of such request or
requirement so that Grantee may seek an appropriate protective order or other
relief.
110.10 FORCE MAJEURE.  
It shall not be a breach or default under this Ordinance if either party fails
to perform its obligations hereunder due to force majeure. Force majeure shall
include, but not be limited to, the following: (i) physical events such as acts
of God, landslides, lightning, earthquakes, fires, freezing, storms, floods,
washouts, explosions, breakage or accident or necessity of repairs to
machinery, equipment or distribution or transmission lines; (ii) acts of others
such as strikes, work-force stoppages, riots, sabotage, insurrections or wars;
(iii) governmental actions such as necessity for compliance with any court
order, law, statute, ordinance, executive order, or regulation promulgated by a
governmental authority having jurisdiction; and (iv) any other causes, whether
of the kind herein enumerated or otherwise not reasonably within the control of
the affected party to prevent or overcome. Each party shall make reasonable
efforts to avoid force majeure and to resolve such event as promptly as
reasonably possible once it occurs in order to resume performance of its
obligations hereunder; provided, however, that this provision shall not
obligate a party to settle any labor strike.
110.11 HOLD HARMLESS.
Grantee, during the term of this Ordinance, agrees to save harmless Grantor
from and against all claims, demands, losses and expenses arising directly out
of the negligence of Grantee, its employees or agents, in constructing,
operating, and maintaining its distribution and transmission facilities or
equipment; provided, however, that Grantee need not save Grantor harmless from
claims, demands, losses and expenses arising out of the negligence of Grantor,
its employees or agents.
110.12 SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS.
All rights, privileges and authority granted to Grantee hereunder shall inure
to the benefit of Grantee’s lessees, successors and assigns, subject to the
terms, provisions and conditions herein contained, and all obligations imposed
upon Grantee hereunder shall be binding upon Grantee’s lessees, successors and
assigns. The Grantee agrees to give the Grantor 90 days advance written notice
of any transfer or assignment other than for security purposes.
110.13 NO THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES.  
This Ordinance constitutes a franchise agreement between the Grantor and
Grantee. No provision of this Ordinance shall inure to the benefit of any third
person, including the public at large, so as to constitute any such person as a
third party beneficiary of the agreement or of any one or more of the terms
hereof, or otherwise give rise to any cause of action for any person not a
party hereto.
110.14 NON-WAIVER.  
Any waiver of any obligation or default under this Ordinance shall not be
construed as a waiver of any future defaults, whether of like or different
character.
110.15 EFFECTIVE DATE AND ACCEPTANCE.  
This Ordinance shall become effective and be a binding contract between the
Grantor and Grantee upon its final passage and approval by Grantor, in
accordance with applicable laws and regulations, and upon Grantee’s acceptance
by written instrument, within 60 days of passage by the City Council, and
filing with the Clerk of the City of Orleans, Iowa. The Clerk of the City of
Orleans, Iowa shall sign and affix the community seal to acknowledge receipt of
such acceptance, and return one copy to Grantee. If Grantee does not, within 60
days following passage of this Ordinance, either express in writing its
objections to any terms or provisions contained therein, or reject this
Ordinance in its entirety, Grantee shall be deemed to have accepted this
Ordinance and all of its terms and conditions.
CHAPTER 111
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
 
111.01 Franchise Granted                111.07 Nonexclusive
111.02 Poles and Wires; Indemnification 111.08 Continuous Service
111.03 Excavations                      111.09 Franchise Fee
111.04 Construction and Maintenance     111.10 Term of Franchise
111.05 Meters                           111.11 Entire Agreement
111.06 System Requirements
 
111.01 FRANCHISE GRANTED
There is hereby granted to INTERSTATE POWER & LIGHT COMPANY, hereinafter
referred to as the “Company,” its successors and assigns, the right and
franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain and operate in the City works
and plants for the manufacture and generation of electricity and a distribution
system for electric light, heat and power and the right to erect and maintain
the necessary poles, lines, wires, conduits and other appliances for the
distribution of electric current along, under and upon the streets, avenues,
alleys and public places in the said City to supply individuals, corporations,
communities and municipalities both inside and outside of the City with
electric light, heat and power for the period 25 years; subject to a right of
cancellation only at the end of the 10th and 20th year anniversaries of the
“Anniversary Date;” also the right of eminent domain as provided in section
364.2 of the Code or Iowa.
111.02 POLES AND WIRES; INDEMNIFICATION.
The poles, lines, wires, circuits and other appliances shall be placed and
maintained so as not to unnecessarily interfere with the travel on said
streets, alleys and public places in the City or unnecessarily interfere with
the proper use of the same, including ordinary drainage or with the sewers,
underground pipe and other property of the City, and the Company, its
successors and assigns shall hold the City free and harmless from all damages
to the extent arising from the negligent acts or omissions of the Company in
the erection or maintenance of said system.
111.03 EXCAVATIONS.
In making any excavations in any street, alley, avenue or public place,
Company, its successors and assigns, shall protect the site while work is in
progress by guards, barriers or signals, shall not unnecessarily obstruct the
use of the streets, shall back fill all openings in such manner as to prevent
settling or depressions in surface, and shall replace the surface, pavement or
sidewalk of such excavations with same materials, restoring the condition as
nearly as practical.
111.04 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
The Company shall, at its cost, locate and relocate its existing facilities or
equipment in, on, over or under any public street or alley in the City in such
manner as the City may at any time reasonably require for the purposes of
facilitating the construction, reconstruction, maintenance or repair of the
street or alley or any public improvement thereof, in or about any such street
or alley or reasonably promoting the efficient operation of any such
improvement. If the City orders or requests the Company to relocate its
existing facilities or equipment for any reason other than as specified above,
or as the result of the initial request of a commercial or private developer,
the Company shall receive payment for the cost of such relocation as a
precondition to relocating its existing facilities or equipment. The City shall
consider reasonable alternatives in designing its public works projects so as
not arbitrarily to cause the Company unreasonable additional expense in
exercising its authority under this section. The City will cooperate with and
assist the Company in finding a reasonable alternative location for the
company’s facilities. The City shall also provide a reasonable alternative
location for the Company’s facilities as part of its relocation request. The
City shall give the Company reasonable advance written notice to vacate a
public right-of-way. Prior to vacating a public right-of-way, the Company shall
be provided an opportunity to secure an easement to allow it to operate and
maintain its existing facilities.
111.05 METERS.
The Company, its successors and assigns shall furnish and install all meters at
its own expense, and shall provide the service wire to buildings as set forth
in the Company’s tariff filed with the Iowa Utilities Board.
111.06 SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
The system authorized by this chapter shall be modern and up-to-date and shall
be of sufficient capacity to supply all reasonable demands of the City and the
inhabitants thereof and shall be kept in a modern and up-to-date condition.
111.07 NONEXCLUSIVE.
The franchise granted by this chapter shall not be exclusive.
111.08 CONTINUOUS SERVICE.
Service to be rendered by the Company under this chapter shall be continuous
unless prevented from so doing by fire, acts of God, unavoidable accidents or
casualties, or reasonable interruptions necessary to properly service the
Company’s equipment, and in such event service shall be resumed as quickly as
is reasonably possible.
111.09 FRANCHISE FEE.
1.   In its monthly billing the Company shall include a franchise fee of zero
percent or such other amount as hereinafter authorized by the City Council,
consistent with State law, on the gross receipts from the sale of electricity
to the Company’s electric customers located within the corporate limits of the
City.
2.   The franchise fee shall be applied to all customers’ bills in accordance
with Iowa Code Chapter 364.2 and 423B.5. The amount of the franchise fee shall
be shown separately on the utility bill to each customer.
3.   The Company shall commence collecting the franchise fees on or before the
first Company billing cycle of the first calendar month following 90 days of
receipt of information required of the City to implement the franchise fee.
This information shall include but not be limited to a copy of the City’s
Revenue Purpose Statement and written proof of legal adoption and publication
of the Revenue Purpose Statement, City’s list of City utility accounts exempt
per Iowa law from the franchise fee, signed Nondisclosure Agreement pertaining
to the protection of the confidentiality of utility service address information
provided by the Company to the City, and the City’s verified utility customer
service address list.
4.   Upon receipt of a final and unappealable order or approval authorizing
annexation, or changes in the corporate limits of said City, the City Clerk
shall provide written notification by certified mail to an officer of Company
of such annexation or change in the limits of said City, and the Company shall
apply the franchise fee to its customers who are affected by the annexation or
change in the corporate limits of the City, commencing on an agreed upon date
which is not less than 90 days from receipt of the information required of the
City to implement the franchise fee. The Company shall have no obligation to
collect franchise fees from customers in any annexed area until and unless the
following have all been provided to the Company by certified mail: such final
and unappealable orders or approvals, the City’s list of City utility accounts
exempt from the franchise fee in the annexed area, and the City’s verified
utility customer service address list for the annexed area.
5.   The City shall indemnify the Company from claims of any nature arising out
of or related to the imposition and collection of the franchise fee. In
addition, the Company shall not be liable for collecting franchise fees from
any customer originally or subsequently identified, or incorrectly identified,
by the City as being subject to the franchise fee or being exempt from the
imposition of franchise fees.
6.   The Company shall remit franchise fee revenues, minus uncollectible
amounts, to the City no more frequently than on or before the last business day
of the month following each calendar year quarter. Company shall notify City at
least 30 days in advance of any changes made in this collection schedule,
including any alterations in the calendar quarters or any other changes in the
remittance periods.
7.   The City shall give the Company a minimum six-month notice prior to the
request to implement any adjustment in the percentage of franchise fee to be
collected pursuant to this section. The City agrees to modify the level of
franchise fees imposed only once in any 24-month period. When any such
ordinance increasing, decreasing, modifying or eliminating the franchise fee
shall become effective, billings reflecting the change shall commence on an
agreed upon date which is not less than 90 days following written notice to the
Company by certified mail. The Company shall not be required to implement such
new percentage unless and until it determines that it has received appropriate
official documentation of final action by the City Council. In no event may the
percentage of franchise fee exceed the statutory amount authorized by Iowa law.
8.   The City shall be solely responsible for the proper use of any amounts
collected as franchise fees, and shall only use such fees as collected for a
purpose as allowed by applicable law.
9.   The Company shall not, under any circumstances be required to return or
refund any franchise fees that have been collected from City customers and
remitted to the City. In the event the Company is required to provide data or
information in defense of the City’s imposition of franchise fees or the
Company is required to assist the City in identifying customers or calculating
any franchise fee refunds for groups of customers or individual customers, the
City shall reimburse the Company for the expenses incurred by the Company to
provide such data or information.
10.   Collection of the franchise fee shall cease at the earlier of the
modification or repeal of the franchise fee or the end of the franchise term.
   A.   The obligation to collect and remit the fee imposed by this chapter is
modified if:
      (1)   Any other person is authorized to sell electricity to customers
within the corporate limits of the City and the City imposes a franchise fee or
its lawful equivalent at zero or a lesser rate than provided in this chapter,
in which case the obligation of Company to collect and remit franchise fee
shall be modified to zero or the lesser rate; or
      (2)   The City adds additional territory by annexation or consolidation
and is unable or unwilling to impose the franchise fee upon all persons selling
electricity to consumers within the additional territory, in which case the
franchise fee imposed on the revenue from sales by Company in the additional
territory shall be zero or equal to that of the lowest fee being paid by any
other retail seller of electricity within the City; or
      (3)   The Iowa General Assembly enacts legislation, or any Iowa court
issues a final judicial decision regarding franchise fees, or the Iowa
Utilities Board issues a final nonappealable order (collectively, “Final
Franchise Fee Action”) that modifies, but does not repeal, the ability of the
City to impose a franchise fee or the ability of Company to collect from City
customers and remit franchise fees to City. Within 60 days of Final Franchise
Fee Action, the City shall notify Company and the parties shall meet to
determine whether this chapter can be revised, and, if so, how to revise the
franchise fee on a continuing basis to meet revised legal requirements. After
Final Franchise Fee Action and until passage by the City of revisions to the
franchise fee ordinance, Company may temporarily discontinue collection and
remittance of the franchise fee if in its sole opinion it believes it is
required to do so in order to comply with revised legal requirements.
   B.   The obligation to collect and remit the fee imposed by this chapter is
repealed, effective as of the date specified in the franchise ordinance with no
liability therefor, if:
      (1)   Any of the imposition, collection or remittance of a franchise fee
is ruled to be unlawful by the Supreme Court of Iowa, effective as of the date
of such ruling or as may be specified by that Court; or
      (2)   The Iowa General Assembly enacts legislation making imposition,
collection or remittance of a franchise fee unlawful, effective as of the date
lawfully specified by the General Assembly; or
      (3)   The Iowa Utilities Board, or any successor agency, denies the
Company the right to impose, collect or remit a franchise fee provided such
denial is affirmed by the Supreme Court of Iowa, effective as of the date of
the final agency order from which the appeal is taken.
11.   Pursuant to Chapter 480A of the Iowa Code, the franchise fee, if and when
imposed, shall be in lieu of any other payments to the City for the Company’s
use of streets, alleys and public places in the said City and other
administrative or regulatory costs with regard to said franchise; and said
poles, lines, wires, conduits and other appliances for the distribution of
electric current along, under and upon the streets, alleys and public places in
the said City to supply individuals, corporations, communities, and
municipalities both inside and outside of said City with electric light, heat
and power shall be exempt from any special tax, assessment, license or rental
charge during the entire term of this chapter, except as permitted pursuant to
Section
111.11.
12.   If and when the franchise fee is imposed, the City shall not, pursuant to
Chapter 480A.6 of the Code of Iowa, impose or charge right-of-way management
fees upon the Company or fees for permits for Company construction,
maintenance, repairs, excavation, pavement cutting or inspections of Company
work sites and projects or related matters, except as permitted pursuant to
Section
111.11 below.
111.10 TERM OF FRANCHISE.  
The term of the franchise granted by this chapter and the rights thereunder
shall continue for the period of 25 years from and after its acceptance by the
Company, as herein provided.† 9  The City may cancel this franchise on the 10th
or 20th anniversary of the anniversary date of this franchise by notifying
Company in writing of its desire to do so, said notification to be given within
30 days of the 10th or 20th anniversary respectively of this franchise. If
Company is not notified of the cancellation by the 10th or 20th anniversary
then this franchise shall continue without cancellation until the 25th year.
The anniversary date shall be the date this franchise is filed with the City
Clerk or otherwise effectively by operation of law.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 111 adopting an electric franchise for the City was
9 passed and adopted on May 12, 2014.
   
111.11 ENTIRE AGREEMENT.
This chapter sets forth and constitutes the entire agreement between the
Company and the City with respect to the rights contained herein, and may not
be superseded, modified or otherwise amended without the written approval and
acceptance of the Company. Upon written acceptance by the Company, this
franchise ordinance shall supersede, abrogate and repeal the prior electric
system ordinance between the Company and the City as of the date this franchise
ordinance is accepted by the Company. It is agreed that the City shall not
enact any ordinance or place any limitations upon the Company that create
additional burdens on the Company or which delay its operations; except for the
provisions of this Ordinance; ordinance enacted pursuant to the City’s Police
Powers required for the public safety or welfare of it citizens which
incidentally or temporarily burden the Company; or ordinances imposing fees,
charges or requirements hereafter authorized by the State of Iowa.
CHAPTER 120
LIQUOR LICENSES AND WINE AND BEER PERMITS
 
120.01 License or Permit Required 120.04 Action by Council
120.02 General Prohibition        120.05 Prohibited Sales and Acts
120.03 Investigation              120.06 Amusement Devices
 
120.01 LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall manufacture for sale, import, sell, or offer or keep for sale,
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer without first securing a liquor control
license, wine permit, or beer permit in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.22, 123.122 & 123.171)
120.02 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, sell, offer or keep for sale, possess
or transport alcoholic liquor, wine or beer except upon the terms, conditions,
limitations, and restrictions enumerated in Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa,
and a license or permit may be suspended or revoked or a civil penalty may be
imposed for a violation thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.2, 123.39 & 123.50)
120.03 INVESTIGATION.
Upon receipt of an application for a liquor license, wine or beer permit, the
Clerk may forward it to the Peace Officer, who shall then conduct an
investigation and submit a written report as to the truth of the facts averred
in the application. The Fire Chief may also inspect the premises to determine
if they conform to the requirements of the City. The Council shall not approve
an application for a license or permit for any premises that does not conform
to the applicable law and ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.30)
120.04 ACTION BY COUNCIL.
The Council shall either approve or disapprove the issuance of a liquor control
license, a retail wine permit, or a retail beer permit and shall endorse its
approval or disapproval on the application, and thereafter the application,
necessary fee and bond, if required, shall be forwarded to the Alcoholic
Beverages Division of the State Department of Commerce for such further action
as is provided by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.32[2])
120.05 PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS.
A person holding a liquor license or retail wine or beer permit and the
person’s agents or employees shall not do any of the following:
1.   Sell, dispense, or give to any intoxicated person, or one simulating
intoxication, any alcoholic beverage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[1])
2.   Sell or dispense any alcoholic beverage on the premises covered by the
license or permit, or permit its consumption thereon between the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on a weekday, and between the hours of 2:00 a.m. on Sunday
and 6:00 a.m. on the following Monday; however, a holder of a liquor control
license or retail wine or beer permit granted the privilege of selling
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer on Sunday may sell or dispense alcoholic
liquor, wine, or beer between the hours of 8:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. of
the following Monday, and further provided that a holder of any class of liquor
control license or the holder of a class “B” beer permit may sell or dispense
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer for consumption on the premises between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on Monday when that Monday is New
Year’s Day and beer for consumption off the premises between the hours of 8:00
a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on the following Monday when that Sunday is the
day before New Year’s Day.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2b] & 123.150)
3.   Sell alcoholic beverages to any person on credit, except with a bona fide
credit card. This provision does not apply to sales by a club to its members,
to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide registered guests or to retail sales
by the managing entity of a convention center, civic center, or events center.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2c])
4.   Employ a person under 18 years of age in the sale or serving of alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises where sold.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2f])
5.   In the case of a retail wine or beer permittee, knowingly allow the mixing
or adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to wine, beer, or any other
beverage in or about the permittee’s place of business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2i])
6.   Knowingly permit any gambling, except in accordance with Iowa law, or
knowingly permit any solicitation for immoral purposes, or immoral or
disorderly conduct on the premises covered by the license or permit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2a])
7.   Knowingly permit or engage in any criminal activity on the premises
covered by the license or permit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2j])
8.   Keep on premises covered by a liquor control license any alcoholic liquor
in any container except the original package purchased from the Alcoholic
Beverages Division of the State Department of Commerce and except mixed drinks
or cocktails mixed on the premises for immediate consumption. However, mixed
drinks or cocktails that are mixed on the premises and are not for immediate
consumption may be consumed on the licensed premises, subject to rules adopted
by the Alcoholic Beverages Division.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2d])
9.   Reuse for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine any container or receptacle
used originally for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine; or adulterate, by the
addition of any substance, the contents or remaining contents of an original
package of an alcoholic liquor or wine; or knowingly possess any original
package that has been reused or adulterated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2e])
10.   Allow any person other than the licensee, permittee, or employees of the
licensee or permittee to use or keep on the licensed premises any alcoholic
liquor in any bottle or other container that is designed for the transporting
of such beverages, except as allowed by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2g])
11.   Sell, give, possess, or otherwise supply a machine that is used to
vaporize an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of being consumed in a vaporized
form.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[21])
120.06 AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
The following provisions pertain to electrical or mechanical amusement devices
possessed and used in accordance with Chapter 99B of the Code of Iowa. (Said
devices are allowed only in premises with a liquor control license or beer
permit, as specifically authorized in said Chapter 99B.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 99B.57)
1.   As used in this section, “registered electrical or mechanical amusement
device” means an electrical or mechanical device required to be registered with
the Iowa Department of Inspection and Appeals, as provided in Section 99B.53 of
the Code of Iowa.
2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to participate in the
operation of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device.
3.   It is unlawful for any person owning or leasing a registered electrical or
mechanical amusement device, or an employee of a person owning or leasing a
registered electrical or mechanical amusement device, to knowingly allow a
person under the age of 21 to participate in the operation of a registered
electrical or mechanical amusement device.
4.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly participate in the operation of
a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device with a person under the
age of 21.
CHAPTER 121
CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO PERMITS
 
121.01 Definitions             121.06 Refunds
121.02 Permit Required         121.07 Persons Under Legal Age
121.03 Application             121.08 Self-Service Sales Prohibited
121.04 Fees                    121.09 Permit Revocation
121.05 Issuance and Expiration
 
121.01 DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.1)
1.   “Alternative nicotine product” means a product, not consisting of or
containing tobacco, that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing, or
by any other means. “Alternative nicotine product” does not include cigarettes,
tobacco products, or vapor products, or a product that is regulated as a drug
or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
2.   “Cigarette” means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of tobacco,
or any substitute for tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and irrespective
of tobacco or any substitute for tobacco being flavored, adulterated, or mixed
with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper or cover made of paper
or any other material. However, cigarette shall not be construed to include
cigars.
3.   “Place of business” means any place where cigarettes, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or vapor products are sold, stored, or kept for
the purpose of sale or consumption by a retailer.
4.   “Retailer” means every person who sells, distributes or offers for sale
for consumption, or possesses for the purpose of sale for consumption,
cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products, irrespective of
the quantity or amount or the number of sales, or who engages in the business
of selling tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products to ultimate consumers.
5.   “Self-service display” means any manner of product display, placement, or
storage from which a person purchasing the product may take possession of the
product, prior to purchase, without assistance from the retailer or employee of
the retailer, in removing the product from a restricted access location.
6.   “Tobacco products” means the following: cigars; little cigars; cheroots;
stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed and other
smoking tobacco; snuff; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and other
chewing tobaccos; shorts or refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings and sweepings of
tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such manner as to be
suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or for both chewing and
smoking, but does not mean cigarettes.
7.   “Vapor product” means any noncombustible product, which may or may not
contain nicotine, that employs a heating element, power source, electronic
circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of
shape or size, that can be used to produce vapor from a solution or other
substance. “Vapor product” includes an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device, and any
cartridge or other container of a solution or other substance, which may or may
not contain nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar
product or device. “Vapor product” does not include a product regulated as a
drug or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter
V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
121.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
1.   Retail Cigarette Permits. It is unlawful for any person, other than a
holder of a retail permit, to sell cigarettes, alternative nicotine products,
or vapor products at retail and no retailer shall distribute, sell, or solicit
the sale of any cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products
within the City without a valid permit for each place of business. The permit
shall, at all times, be publicly displayed at the place of business so as to be
easily seen by the public and the persons authorized to inspect the place of
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13)
2.   Retail Tobacco Permits. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a retailer of tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products at any place of business without first having
received a permit as a retailer for each place of business owned or operated by
the retailer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A)
A retailer who holds a retail cigarette permit is not required to also obtain a
retail tobacco permit. However, if a retailer only holds a retail cigarette
permit and that permit is suspended, revoked, or expired, the retailer shall
not sell any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products, during such time.
121.03 APPLICATION.
A completed application on forms furnished by the State Department of Revenue
or on forms made available or approved by the Department and accompanied by the
required fee shall be filed with the Clerk. Renewal applications shall be filed
at least five days prior to the last regular meeting of the Council in June. If
a renewal application is not timely filed, and a special Council meeting is
called to act on the application, the costs of such special meeting shall be
paid by the applicant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 & 453A.47A)
121.04 FEES.
The fee for a retail cigarette or tobacco permit shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 & 453A.47A)
 
FOR PERMITS GRANTED DURING:   FEE:
July, August or September     $ 75.00
October, November or December $ 56.25
January, February or March    $ 37.50
April, May or June            $ 18.75
 
121.05 ISSUANCE AND EXPIRATION.
Upon proper application and payment of the required fee, a permit shall be
issued. Each permit issued shall describe clearly the place of business for
which it is issued and shall be nonassignable. All permits expire on June 30 of
each year. The Clerk shall submit a duplicate of any application for a permit
to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce within 30
days of issuance of a permit.
121.06 REFUNDS.
A retailer may surrender an unrevoked permit and receive a refund from the
City, except during April, May, or June, in accordance with the schedule of
refunds as provided in Section 453A.13 or 453A.47A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, 453A.13 & 453A.47A)
121.07 PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
No person shall sell, give, or otherwise supply any tobacco, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes to any person
under 18 years of age. The provision of this section includes prohibiting a
minor from purchasing tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products, and cigarettes from a vending machine. If a retailer or
employee of a retailer violates the provisions of this section, the Council
shall, after written notice and hearing, and in addition to the other penalties
fixed for such violation, assess the following:
1.   For a first violation, the retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty in
the amount of $300.00. Failure to pay the civil penalty as ordered under this
subsection shall result in automatic suspension of the permit for a period of
14 days.
2.   For a second violation within a period of two years, the retailer shall be
assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 or the retailer’s permit
shall be suspended for a period of 30 days. The retailer may select its
preference in the penalty to be applied under this subsection.
3.   For a third violation within a period of three years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.
4.   For a fourth violation within a period of three years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 60 days.
5.   For a fifth violation within a period of four years, the retailer’s permit
shall be revoked.
The Clerk shall give 10 days’ written notice to the retailer by mailing a copy
of the notice to the place of business as it appears on the application for a
permit. The notice shall state the reason for the contemplated action and the
time and place at which the retailer may appear and be heard.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2, 453A.22 and 453A.36[6])
121.08 SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED.
Except for the sale of cigarettes through a cigarette vending machine as
provided in Section 453A.36[6] of the Code of Iowa, a retailer shall not sell
or offer for sale tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products, or cigarettes through the use of a self-service display.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.36A)
121.09 PERMIT REVOCATION.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, as provided by the
Code of Iowa, the Council may also revoke a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter for a violation of Division I of Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or
any rule adopted thereunder. If a permit is revoked, a new permit shall not be
issued to the permit holder for any place of business, or to any other person
for the place of business at which the violation occurred, until one year has
expired from the date of revocation, unless good cause to the contrary is shown
to the Council. The Clerk shall report the revocation or suspension of a retail
permit to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce within
30 days of the revocation or suspension.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.22)
CHAPTER 122
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
122.01 Purpose                  122.10 Time Restriction
122.02 Definitions              122.11 Revocation of License
122.03 License Required         122.12 Hearing
122.04 Application for License  122.13 Record and Determination
122.05 License Fees             122.14 Appeal
122.06 Bond Required            122.15 Effect of Revocation
122.07 License Issued           122.16 License Exemptions
122.08 Display of License       122.17 Charitable and Nonprofit Organizations
122.09 License Not Transferable
 
122.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to protect residents of the City against fraud,
unfair competition, and intrusion into the privacy of their homes by licensing
and regulating peddlers, solicitors, and transient merchants.
122.02 DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Peddler” means any person carrying goods or merchandise who sells or
offers for sale for immediate delivery such goods or merchandise from house to
house or upon the public street.
2.   “Solicitor” means any person who solicits or attempts to solicit from
house to house or upon the public street any contribution or donation or any
order for goods, services, subscriptions or merchandise to be delivered at a
future date.
3.   “Transient merchant” means any person who engages in a temporary or
itinerant merchandising business and in the course of such business hires,
leases or occupies any building or structure whatsoever, or who operates out of
a vehicle that is parked anywhere within the City limits. Temporary association
with a local merchant, dealer, trader or auctioneer, or conduct of such
transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any
local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer does not exempt any person from
being considered a transient merchant.
122.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
Any person engaging in peddling, soliciting or in the business of a transient
merchant in the City without first obtaining a license as herein provided is in
violation of this chapter.
122.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
An application in writing shall be filed with the Mayor for a license under
this chapter. Such application shall set forth the applicant’s name, permanent
and local address, and business address if any. The application shall also set
forth the applicant’s employer, if any, and the employer’s address, the nature
of the applicant’s business, the last three places of such business and the
length of time sought to be covered by the license. An application fee of $5.00
shall be paid at the time of filing such application to cover the cost of
investigating the facts stated therein.
122.05 LICENSE FEES.
The following license fees shall be paid to the Clerk prior to the issuance of
any license.
1.   Solicitors. In addition to the application fee for each person actually
soliciting (principal or agent), a fee for the principal of $5.00 per year.
2.   Peddlers or Transient Merchants.
   A.   For one day   $5.00
   B.   For one week   $25.00
   C.   For up to six (6) months   $100.00
   D.   For one year or major part thereof   $   175.00
122.06 BOND REQUIRED.
Before a license under this chapter is issued to a transient merchant, an
applicant shall provide to the Clerk evidence that the applicant has filed a
bond with the Secretary of State in accordance with Chapter 9C of the Code of
Iowa.
122.07 LICENSE ISSUED.
If the Clerk finds the application is completed in conformance with the
requirements of this chapter, the facts stated therein are found to be correct,
and the license fee paid, a license shall be issued immediately.
122.08 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
Each solicitor or peddler shall keep such license in possession at all times
while doing business in the City and shall, upon the request of prospective
customers, exhibit the license as evidence of compliance with all requirements
of this chapter. Each transient merchant shall display publicly such merchant’s
license in the merchant’s place of business.
122.09 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter are not transferable in
any situation and are to be applicable only to the person filing the
application.
122.10 TIME RESTRICTION.
All peddler’s and solicitor’s licenses shall provide that said licenses are in
force and effect only between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
122.11 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, the Clerk may
revoke any license issued pursuant to this chapter for the following reasons:
1.   Fraudulent Statements. The licensee has made fraudulent statements in the
application for the license or in the conduct of the business.
2.   Violation of Law. The licensee has violated this chapter or has otherwise
conducted the business in an unlawful manner.
3.   Endangered Public Welfare, Health, or Safety. The licensee has conducted
the business in such manner as to endanger the public welfare, safety, order,
or morals.
The Clerk shall send the written notice to the licensee at the licensee’s local
address. The notice shall contain particulars of the complaints against the
licensee, the ordinance provisions or State statutes allegedly violated, and
the date, time, and place for hearing on the matter.
122.12 HEARING.
The Clerk shall conduct a hearing at which both the licensee and any
complainants shall be present to determine the truth of the facts alleged in
the complaint and notice. Should the licensee, or authorized representative,
fail to appear without good cause, the Clerk may proceed to a determination of
the complaint.
122.13 RECORD AND DETERMINATION.
The Clerk shall make and record findings of fact and conclusions of law, and
shall revoke a license only when upon review of the entire record the Clerk
finds clear and convincing evidence of substantial violation of this chapter or
State law.
122.14 APPEAL.
If the Clerk revokes or refuses to issue a license, the Clerk shall make a part
of the record the reasons for such revocation or refusal. The licensee, or the
applicant, shall have a right to a hearing before the Council at its next
regular meeting. The Council may reverse, modify, or affirm the decision of the
Clerk by a majority vote of the Council members present and the Clerk shall
carry out the decision of the Council.
122.15 EFFECT OF REVOCATION.
Revocation of any license shall bar the licensee from being eligible for any
license under this chapter for a period of one year from the date of the
revocation.
122.16 LICENSE EXEMPTIONS.
The following are excluded from the application of this chapter.
1.   Newspapers. Persons delivering, collecting for, or selling subscriptions
to newspapers.
2.   Club Members. Members of local civic and service clubs, Boy Scout, Girl
Scout, 4-H Clubs, Future Farmers of America, and similar organizations.
3.   Local Residents and Farmers. Local residents and farmers who offer for
sale their own products.
4.   Students. Students representing the Spirit Lake Community School District
conducting projects sponsored by organizations recognized by the school.
5.   Route Sales. Route delivery persons who only incidentally solicit
additional business or make special sales.
6.   Resale or Institutional Use. Persons customarily calling on businesses or
institutions for the purposes of selling products for resale or institutional
use.
122.17 CHARITABLE AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
Authorized representatives of charitable or nonprofit organizations operating
under the provisions of Chapter 504 of the Code of Iowa desiring to solicit
money or to distribute literature are exempt from the operation of Sections
122.04 and
122.05. All such organizations are required to submit in writing to the Clerk
the name and purpose of the cause for which such activities are sought, names
and addresses of the officers and directors of the organization, the period
during which such activities are to be carried on, and whether any commissions,
fees or wages are to be charged by the solicitor and the amount thereof. If the
Clerk finds that the organization is a bona fide charity or nonprofit
organization, the Clerk shall issue, free of charge, a license containing the
above information to the applicant. In the event the Clerk denies the
exemption, the authorized representatives of the organization may appeal the
decision to the Council, as provided in Section
122.14 of this chapter.
CHAPTER 123
BUILDING MOVERS
 
123.01 Definitions        123.07 Permit Issued
123.02 Permit Required    123.08 Public Safety
123.03 Application        123.09 Time Limit
123.04 Bond Required      123.10 Removal by City
123.05 Insurance Required 123.11 Protect Pavement
123.06 Permit Fee         123.12 Overhead Wires
 
123.01 DEFINITIONS.
1.   “Building mover” means any person who undertakes to move a building or
similar structure upon, over or across public streets or property when the
building or structure is of such size that it requires the use of skids, jacks,
dollies, or any other specialized moving equipment.
2.   “Residential district” and “Multiple family district” means the
residential district and multiple family district as the same are set forth in
and upon the official zoning plan map on file in the office of the Community
Development Director and by this reference said Official Zoning Plan Map is
made a part of this chapter.
123.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any person to engage in the activity of building mover as
herein defined, of a structure with gross floor area over 300 square feet,
without a valid permit from the City for each house, building or similar
structure to be moved.
123.03 APPLICATION.
Application for a building mover’s permit shall be made in writing to the
Clerk. The application shall include:
1.   Name and Address. The applicant’s full name and address and, if a
corporation, the names and addresses of its principal officers.
2.   Building Location. An accurate description of the present location and
future site of the building or similar structure to be moved.
3.   Routing Plan. A routing plan approved by the Mayor, street superintendent,
and public utility officials. The route approved shall be the shortest route
compatible with the greatest public convenience and safety.
123.04 BOND REQUIRED.
The applicant shall post with the Clerk a penal bond, in the amount determined
by the Mayor, issued by a surety company authorized to issue such bonds in the
State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for any damage done to
the City or to public property, and payment of all costs incurred by the City
in the course of moving the building or structure.
123.05 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
Each applicant shall also file a certificate of insurance indicating that the
applicant is carrying public liability insurance in effect for the duration of
the permit covering the applicant and all agents and employees for the
following minimum amounts:
1.   Bodily Injury – $1,000,000.00 per person; $1,000,000.00 per accident.
2.   Property Damage – $500,000.00 per accident.
123.06 PERMIT FEE.
A permit fee of $25.00 shall be payable at the time of filing the application
with the Clerk. A separate permit shall be required for each house, building or
similar structure to be moved.
123.07 PERMIT ISSUED.
Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and insurance certificate, and
payment of the required fee, the Mayor shall issue a permit. The permit will be
granted or denied after the hearing. If no written objections are filed on or
before the date set for the hearing, the permit may be issued without a
hearing.
123.08 PUBLIC SAFETY.
At all times when a building or similar structure is in motion upon any street,
alley, sidewalk or public property, the permittee shall maintain flag persons
at the closest intersections or other possible channels of traffic to the
sides, behind and ahead of the building or structure. At all times when the
building or structure is at rest upon any street, alley, sidewalk or public
property the permittee shall maintain adequate warning signs or lights at the
intersections or channels of traffic to the sides, behind and ahead of the
building or structure.
123.09 TIME LIMIT.
No building mover shall permit or allow a building or similar structure to
remain upon any street or other public way for a period of more than 12 hours
without having first secured the written approval of the City.
123.10 REMOVAL BY CITY.
In the event any building or similar structure is found to be in violation of
Section
123.09, the City is authorized to remove such building or structure and assess
the costs thereof against the permit holder and the surety on the permit
holder’s bond.
123.11 PROTECT PAVEMENT.
It is unlawful to move any house or building of any kind over any pavement,
unless the wheels or rollers upon which the house or building is moved are at
least one inch in width for each 1,000 pounds of weight of such building. If
there is any question as to the weight of a house or building, the estimate of
the City as to such weight shall be final.
123.12 OVERHEAD WIRES.
The holder of any permit to move a building shall see that all telephone, cable
television and electric wires and poles are removed when necessary and replaced
in good order, and shall be liable for the costs of the same.
CHAPTER 135
STREET USE AND MAINTENANCE
 
135.01 Removal of Warning Devices 135.08 Burning Prohibited
135.02 Obstructing or Defacing    135.09 Excavations
135.03 Placing Debris On          135.10 Property Owner’s Responsibility for
                                  Maintenance
135.04 Playing In                 135.11 Failure to Maintain
135.05 Traveling on Barricaded    135.12 Dumping of Snow
Street or Alley
135.06 Use for Business Purposes  135.13 Storm Drainage on Public Rights-of-
                                  Way
135.07 Washing Vehicles
 
135.01 REMOVAL OF WARNING DEVICES.
It is unlawful for a person to willfully remove, throw down, destroy or carry
away from any street or alley any lamp, obstruction, guard or other article or
things, or extinguish any lamp or other light, erected or placed thereupon for
the purpose of guarding or enclosing unsafe or dangerous places in said street
or alley without the consent of the person in control thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.02 OBSTRUCTING OR DEFACING.
It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, deface or injure any street or alley
in any manner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.03 PLACING DEBRIS ON.
1.   It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street or right
of way alley any glass, glass bottle, nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage,
rubbish, litter, offal, leaves, grass or any other debris likely to be washed
into the storm sewer and clog the storm sewer, or any substance likely to
injure any person, animal or vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.369)
2.   It is unlawful to place or deposit landscape or yard waste of any kind
including grass clippings, leaves, tree branches, brush or lake weeds on any
street right-of-way.
135.04 PLAYING IN.
It is unlawful for any person to coast, sled, or play games on streets or
alleys, except in the areas blocked off by the City for such purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.05 TRAVELING ON BARRICADED STREET OR ALLEY.
It is unlawful for any person to travel or operate any vehicle on any street or
alley temporarily closed by barricades, lights, signs, or flares placed thereon
by the authority or permission of any City official, police officer or member
of the Fire Department.
135.06 USE FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.
It is unlawful to park, store or place, temporarily or permanently, any
machinery or junk or any other goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind upon
any street or alley for the purpose of storage, exhibition, sale or offering
same for sale, without permission of the Council.
135.07 WASHING VEHICLES.
It is unlawful for any person to use any public sidewalk, street, or alley for
the purpose of washing or cleaning any automobile, truck equipment, or any
vehicle of any kind when such work is done for hire or as a business. This does
not prevent any person from washing or cleaning his or her own vehicle or
equipment when it is lawfully parked in the street or alley.
135.08 BURNING PROHIBITED.
No person shall burn any trash, leaves, rubbish, or other combustible material
in any curb and gutter or on any paved or surfaced street or alley.
135.09 EXCAVATIONS.
No person shall dig, excavate, or in any manner disturb any street, parking or
alley except in accordance with the following:
1.   Permit Required. No excavation shall be commenced without first obtaining
a permit. A written application for such permit shall be filed with the City
and shall contain the following:
   A.   An exact description of the property, by lot and street number, in
front of or along which it is desired to excavate;
   B.   A statement of the purpose, for whom and by whom the excavation is to
be made;
   C.   The person responsible for the refilling of said excavation and
restoration of the street or alley surface; and
   D.   Date of commencement of the work and estimated completion date.
2.   Public Convenience. Streets and alleys shall be opened in the manner that
will cause the least inconvenience to the public and admit the uninterrupted
passage of water along the gutter on the street.
3.   Barricades, Fencing and Lighting. Adequate barricades, fencing and warning
lights meeting standards specified by the City shall be so placed as to protect
the public from hazard. Any costs incurred by the City in providing or
maintaining adequate barricades, fencing or warning lights shall be paid to the
City by the permit holder/property owner.
4.   Insurance Required. Each applicant shall also file a certificate of
insurance indicating that the applicant is carrying public liability insurance
in effect for the duration of the permit covering the applicant and all agents
and employees for the following minimum amounts:
   A.   Bodily Injury - $500,000.00 per person; $1,000,000.00 per accident.
   B.   Property Damage - $100,000.00 per accident.
5.   Restoration of Public Property. Streets, sidewalks, alleys and other
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored to the
condition of the property prior to the commencement of the work, or in a manner
satisfactory to the City, at the expense of the permit holder/property owner.
6.   Inspection. All work shall be subject to inspection by the City. Backfill
shall not be deemed completed, and no resurfacing of any improved street or
alley surface shall begin, until such backfill is inspected and approved by the
City. The permit holder/property owner shall provide the City with notice at
least 24 hours prior to the time when inspection of backfill is desired.
7.   Completion by the City. Should any excavation in any street or alley be
discontinued or left open and unfinished for a period of 24 hours after the
approved completion date, or in the event the work is improperly done, the City
has the right to finish or correct the excavation work and charge any expenses
for such work to the permit holder/property owner.
8.   Responsibility for Costs. All costs and expenses incident to the
excavation shall be borne by the permit holder and/or property owner. The
permit holder and owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by such excavation.
9.   Notification. At least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the
excavation, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, the person
performing the excavation shall contact the Statewide Notification Center and
provide the center with the information required under Section 480.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
10.   Permit Issued. Upon approval of the application and filing of bond and
insurance certificate, a permit shall be issued. A separate permit shall be
required for each excavation.
135.10 PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall maintain all property outside the lot and
property lines and inside the curb lines upon public streets and shall keep
such area in a safe condition, free from nuisances, obstructions, and hazards.
In the absence of a curb, such property shall extend from the property line to
that portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes. The
abutting property owner shall not be required to remove diseased trees or dead
wood on the publicly owned property or right-of-way. Maintenance includes, but
is not limited to, timely mowing, trimming trees and shrubs, and picking up
litter and debris. The abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused
by failure to maintain the publicly owned property or right-of-way.† 10
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
 
Notes
10 † EDITOR’S NOTE: See also Section 136.04 relating to property owner’s
   responsibility for maintenance of sidewalks.
135.11 FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
If the abutting property owner does not perform an action required under the
above section within a reasonable time, the City may perform the required
action and assess the cost against the abutting property for collection in the
same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2e])
135.12 DUMPING OF SNOW.
It is unlawful for any person to throw, push, or place or cause to be thrown,
pushed or placed, any ice or snow from private property, sidewalks, or
driveways onto the traveled way of a street or alley so as to obstruct gutters,
or impede the passage of vehicles upon the street or alley or to create a
hazardous condition therein; except where, in the cleaning of large commercial
drives in the business district it is absolutely necessary to move the snow
onto the street or alley temporarily, such accumulation shall be removed
promptly by the property owner or agent. Arrangements for the prompt removal of
such accumulations shall be made prior to moving the snow.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.13 STORM DRAINAGE ON PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
1.   No person shall construct or otherwise make changes or improvements on
private property which has the affect or potential of interfering with,
restricting, diverting, blocking, increasing or otherwise affecting storm water
drainage on City rights-of-way, except pursuant to permit or approval as
provided in this chapter.
2.   No person shall make any change in the surface of land which is public
right-of-way, nor install intakes, culvers, or other drainage structures on or
under any public rights-of-way of the City except pursuant to permit or
approval as provided in this chapter.
CHAPTER 136
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
136.01 Purpose                               136.11 Interference with Sidewalk
                                             Improvements
136.02 Definitions                           136.12 Awnings
136.03 Removal of Snow, Ice, and             136.13 Encroaching Steps
Accumulations
136.04 Property Owner’s Responsibility for 136.14 Openings and Enclosures
Maintenance
136.05 City May Order Repairs                136.15 Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
136.06 Sidewalk Construction Ordered         136.16 Defacing
136.07 Permit Required                       136.17 Debris on Sidewalks
136.08 Sidewalk Standards                    136.18 Merchandise Display
136.09 Barricades and Warning Lights         136.19 Sales Stands
136.10 Failure to Repair or Barricade        136.20 Discharge of Water from
                                             Roofs
 
136.01 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to enhance safe passage by citizens on
sidewalks, to place the responsibility for the maintenance, repair,
replacement, or reconstruction of sidewalks upon the abutting property owner
and to minimize the liability of the City.
136.02 DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Broom finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by sweeping the
sidewalk when it is hardening.
2.    “Established grade” means that grade established by the City for the
particular area in which a sidewalk is to be constructed.
3.   “One-course construction” means that the full thickness of the concrete is
placed at one time, using the same mixture throughout.
4.   “Owner” means the person owning the fee title to property abutting any
sidewalk and includes any contract purchaser for purposes of notification
required herein. For all other purposes, “owner” includes the lessee, if any.
5.   “Portland cement” means any type of cement except bituminous cement.
6.   “Sidewalk” means all permanent public walks in business, residential or
suburban areas.
7.   “Sidewalk improvements” means the construction, reconstruction, repair,
replacement, or removal, of a public sidewalk and/or the excavating, filling or
depositing of material in the public right-of-way in connection therewith.
8.   “Wood float finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by smoothing the
surface of the sidewalk with a wooden trowel.
136.03 REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, AND ACCUMULATIONS.
The abutting property owner shall remove snow, ice, and accumulations promptly
from sidewalks. If a property owner does not remove snow, ice, or accumulations
within a reasonable time, the City may do so and assess the costs against the
property owner for collection in the same manner as a property tax. The
abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused by failure to remove
snow, ice, and accumulations promptly from the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2b & e])
136.04 PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall maintain in a safe and hazard-free condition
any sidewalk outside the lot and property lines and inside the curb lines or,
in the absence of a curb, any sidewalk between the property line and that
portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes. The
abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused by failure to maintain
the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
136.05 CITY MAY ORDER REPAIRS.
If the abutting property owner does not maintain sidewalks as required, the
Council may serve notice on such owner, by certified mail, requiring the owner
to repair, replace or reconstruct sidewalks within a reasonable time and if
such action is not completed within the time stated in the notice, the Council
may require the work to be done and assess the costs against the abutting
property for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2d & e])
136.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION ORDERED.
The Council may order the construction of permanent sidewalks upon any street
or court in the City and may specially assess the cost of such improvement to
abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 384 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.38)
136.07 PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall remove, reconstruct, or install a sidewalk unless such person
has obtained a permit from the City and has agreed in writing that said
removal, reconstruction, or installation will comply with all ordinances and
requirements of the City for such work. A written application for such permit
shall be filed with the City and shall be accompanied by a permit fee of
$75.00.
136.08 SIDEWALK STANDARDS.
Sidewalks repaired, replaced, or constructed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be of the following construction and meet the following
standards:
1.   Cement. Portland cement shall be the only cement used in the construction
and repair of sidewalks.
2.   Construction. Sidewalks shall be of one-course construction.
3.   Sidewalk Base. Concrete may be placed directly on compact and well-drained
soil. Where soil is not well drained, a three-inch sub-base of compact, clean,
coarse gravel or sand shall be laid. The adequacy of the soil drainage is to be
determined by the City.
4.   Sidewalk Bed. The sidewalk bed shall be so graded that the constructed
sidewalk will be at established grade.
5.   Length, Width and Depth. Length, width and depth requirements are as
follows:
   A.   Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide and four inches
thick, and each section shall be no more than four feet in length.
   B.   Business District sidewalks shall extend from the property line to the
curb. Each section shall be four inches thick and no more than six feet in
length.
   C.   Driveway areas shall be not less than six inches in thickness.
6.   Location. Residential sidewalks shall be located with the inner edge (edge
nearest the abutting private property) on the property line, unless the Council
establishes a different distance due to special circumstances.
7.   Grade. Curb tops shall be on level with the centerline of the street,
which is the established grade.
8.   Elevations. The street edge of a sidewalk shall be at an elevation even
with the curb at the curb or not less than one-half inch above the curb for
each foot between the curb and the sidewalk.
9.   Slope. All sidewalks shall slope one-fourth inch per foot toward the curb.
10.   Finish. All sidewalks shall be finished with a broom finish or wood float
finish.
11.   Curb Ramps and Sloped Areas for Persons with Disabilities. If a street,
road, or highway is newly built or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped area
shall be constructed or installed at each intersection of the street, road, or
highway with a sidewalk or path. If a sidewalk or path is newly built or
reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped area shall be constructed or installed at
each intersection of the sidewalk or path with a street, highway, or road. Curb
ramps and sloped areas that are required pursuant to this subsection shall be
constructed or installed in compliance with applicable federal requirements
adopted in accordance with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act,
including (but not limited to) the guidelines issued by the Federal
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 216C.9)
136.09 BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
Whenever any material of any kind is deposited on any street, avenue, highway,
passageway or alley when sidewalk improvements are being made or when any
sidewalk is in a dangerous condition, it shall be the duty of all persons
having an interest therein, either as the contractor or the owner, agent, or
lessee of the property in front of or along which such material may be
deposited, or such dangerous condition exists, to put in conspicuous places at
each end of such sidewalk and at each end of any pile of material deposited in
the street, a sufficient number of approved warning lights or flares, and to
keep them lighted during the entire night and to erect sufficient barricades
both at night and in the daytime to secure the same. The party or parties using
the street for any of the purposes specified in this chapter shall be liable
for all injuries or damage to persons or property arising from any wrongful act
or negligence of the party or parties, or their agents or employees or for any
misuse of the privileges conferred by this chapter or of any failure to comply
with provisions hereof.
136.10 FAILURE TO REPAIR OR BARRICADE.
It is the duty of the owner of the property abutting the sidewalk, or the
owner’s contractor or agent, to notify the City immediately in the event of
failure or inability to make necessary sidewalk improvements or to install or
erect necessary barricades as required by this chapter.
136.11 INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
No person shall knowingly or willfully drive any vehicle upon any portion of
any sidewalk or approach thereto while in the process of being improved or upon
any portion of any completed sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove or
destroy any part or all of any sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove,
destroy, mar or deface any sidewalk at any time or destroy, mar, remove or
deface any notice provided by this chapter.
136.12 AWNINGS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any awning over any sidewalk
unless all parts of the awning are elevated at least eight feet above the
surface of the sidewalk and the roof or covering is made of duck, canvas or
other suitable material supported by iron frames or brackets securely fastened
to the building, without any posts or other device that will obstruct the
sidewalk or hinder or interfere with the free passage of pedestrians.
136.13 ENCROACHING STEPS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any stairs or steps to any
building upon any part of any sidewalk without permission by resolution of the
Council.
136.14 OPENINGS AND ENCLOSURES.
It is unlawful for a person to:
1.   Stairs and Railings. Construct or build a stairway or passageway to any
cellar or basement by occupying any part of the sidewalk, or to enclose any
portion of a sidewalk with a railing without permission by resolution of the
Council.
2.   Openings. Keep open any cellar door, grating, or cover to any vault on any
sidewalk except while in actual use with adequate guards to protect the public.
3.   Protect Openings. Neglect to properly protect or barricade all openings on
or within six feet of any sidewalk.
136.15 FIRES OR FUEL ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to make a fire of any kind on any sidewalk or to
place or allow any fuel to remain upon any sidewalk.
136.16 DEFACING.
It is unlawful for a person to scatter or place any paste, paint, or writing on
any sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
136.17 DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to throw or deposit on any sidewalk any glass,
nails, glass bottle, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, offal,
or any other debris, or any substance likely to injure any person, animal, or
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
136.18 MERCHANDISE DISPLAY.
It is unlawful for a person to place upon or above any sidewalk, any goods or
merchandise for sale or for display in such a manner as to interfere with the
free and uninterrupted passage of pedestrians on the sidewalk; in no case shall
more than three feet of the sidewalk next to the building be occupied for such
purposes.
136.19 SALES STANDS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or keep any vending machine or stand for
the sale of fruit, vegetables or other substances or commodities on any
sidewalk without first obtaining a written permit from the Council.
136.20 DISCHARGE OF WATER FROM ROOFS.
It shall be unlawful to cause or permit any water spout, trough, gutter, or
balcony extending from any building owned or leased, to discharge or conduct
water upon the surface of any sidewalk, but all such water shall be conducted
under the sidewalk in accordance with plans and specification approved by the
Mayor.
CHAPTER 137
VACATION AND DISPOSAL OF STREETS
 
137.01 Power to Vacate                137.04 Findings Required
137.02 Planning and Zoning Commission 137.05 Disposal of Vacated Streets or
                                      Alleys
137.03 Notice of Vacation Hearing     137.06 Disposal by Gift Limited
 
137.01 POWER TO VACATE.
When, in the judgment of the Council, it would be in the best interest of the
City to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds, the
Council may do so by ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2a])
137.02 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
Any proposal to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds
shall be referred by the Council to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its
study and recommendation prior to further consideration by the Council. The
Commission shall submit a written report including recommendations to the
Council within 30 days after the date the proposed vacation is referred to the
Commission.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
137.03 NOTICE OF VACATION HEARING.
The Council shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing of the time
at which the proposal to vacate shall be considered.
137.04 FINDINGS REQUIRED.
No street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds shall be vacated
unless the Council finds that:
1.   Public Use. The street, alley, portion thereof, or any public ground
proposed to be vacated is not needed for the use of the public, and therefore,
its maintenance at public expense is no longer justified.
2.   Abutting Property. The proposed vacation will not deny owners of property
abutting on the street or alley reasonable access to their property.
137.05 DISPOSAL OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS.
When in the judgment of the Council it would be in the best interest of the
City to dispose of a vacated street or alley, portion thereof or public ground,
the Council may do so in accordance with the provisions of Section 364.7, Code
of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7)
137.06 DISPOSAL BY GIFT LIMITED.
The City may not dispose of real property by gift except to a governmental body
for a public purpose or to a fair.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 174.15[2] & 364.7[3])
 
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO.    ADOPTED           ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
Resolution 19-01 February 11, 2019
 
CHAPTER 138
STREET GRADES
 
138.01 Established Grades 138.02 Record Maintained
 
138.01 ESTABLISHED GRADES.
The grades of all streets, alleys and sidewalks, which have been heretofore
established by ordinance, are hereby confirmed, ratified, and established as
official grades.
138.02 RECORD MAINTAINED.
The Clerk shall maintain a record of all established grades and furnish
information concerning such grades upon request.
 
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street and/or sidewalk grades and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
 
CHAPTER 139
NAMING OF STREETS
 
139.01 Naming New Streets      139.04 Official Street Name Map
139.02 Changing Name of Street 139.05 Revision of Street Name Map
139.03 Recording Street Names
 
139.01 NAMING NEW STREETS.
New streets shall be assigned names in accordance with the following:
1.   Extension of Existing Street. Streets added to the City that are natural
extensions of existing streets shall be assigned the name of the existing
street.
2.   Ordinance. All street names, except streets named as a part of a
subdivision or platting procedure, shall be named by ordinance.
3.   Planning and Zoning commission. Proposed street names shall be referred to
the Planning and Zoning Commission for review and recommendation.
139.02 CHANGING NAME OF STREET.
The Council may, by ordinance, change the name of a street.
139.03 RECORDING STREET NAMES.
Following official action naming or changing the name of a street, the Clerk
shall file a copy thereof with the County Recorder, County Auditor, and County
Assessor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.26)
139.04 OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP.
Streets within the City are named as shown on the Official Street Name Map,
which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
The Official Street Name Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor,
and bearing the seal of the City under the following words: “This is to certify
that this is the Official Street Name Map referred to in Section 139.04 of the
Code of Ordinances of Orleans, Iowa.”
139.05 REVISION OF STREET NAME MAP.
If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in
street names, such changes shall be entered on the Official Street Name Map
promptly after the amendment has been approved by the Council with an entry on
the Official Street Name Map as follows: “On (date), by official action of the
City Council, the following changes were made in the Official Street Name Map:
(brief description),” which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by
the Clerk. No amendment to this chapter which involves naming or changing the
name of a street shall become effective until after such change and entry have
been made on said map.
CHAPTER 145
EROSION AND SILT CONTROL
 
145.01 Definitions   145.03 Plan Directives
145.02 Plan Required 145.04 Violations
 
145.01 DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter
1.   “Erosion” means detachment, transportation, and deposition of soil
particles by water or wind. Sheet erosion, rill erosion, gully erosion, lake
bank and stream bank erosion and streambed erosion are common types of erosion
that create sediment-laden runoff, which moves sediment to a point of
deposition down-gradient from its point of origin.
2.   “Land-disturbing activity” means any earth movements that alter the
surface of the land that may result in soil erosion from wind and water and the
movement of sediment and sediment-related pollutants off-site; including but
not limited to grading, topsoil removal, road or bank cutting, waterway
construction or enlargement, excavation, filling or stripping of vegetation.
The following activities are excluded from this definition:
   A.   Excavation, filling or a combination thereof involving less than three
cubic yards, tilling, vegetation and/or tree cover removal from an area less
than 200 square feet.
   B.   Tilling, planting or harvesting of agricultural, horticultural or
forest crops.
   C.   Minor activities such as home gardening, landscaping, repairs and
maintenance work.
   D.   Installation of public utility lines and connections, fence posts, sign
posts, telephone poles, electric poles and other kinds of posts or poles.
   E.   Installing septic tanks and drainage fields, unless these are to serve
a building whose construction is a land-disturbing activity.
   F.   Emergency work to protect life or property.
   G.   Construction, relocation, alteration or maintenance of public roads.
3.   “National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)” means Section
402 of the U.S. Clean Water Act containing the National Pollution Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) regulations. The key aspect of this section is that
any land disturbing activity that impacts one acre or more is required to get a
NPDES permit from DNR.
The application process requires that the applicant certify that an adequate
Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) has been developed for the site.
145.02 PLAN REQUIRED.
No person shall engage in any land disturbing activity, without first providing
and then implementing and following an Erosion and Silt Control Plan compliant
with this chapter. This plan is required before a Zoning Permit shall be
issued.
145.03 PLAN DIRECTIVES.
The Erosion and Silt Control Plan shall comply with the following directives:
1.   Scope. The plan must describe the nature and extent of the work.
2.   Silt Screen Fence. A silt screen fence shall be installed below the
direction of run-off in a manner so as to be most effective in preventing
siltation of soil into downstream adjacent properties, streets or into a public
lake or storm sewer.
   A.   The silt screen fence shall be installed to run the entire length of
the land disturbing activity and be blocked on each end to prevent run-off
around the ends of the fence in order to protect the adjacent properties,
streets, public lake or storm sewer from siltation from the entire land
disturbing activity area. Silt fence should be spaced so that not more than
one-fourth acre of land drains into 100 feet of silt fence run. The bottom edge
of a silt fence should equal the top elevation of the next fence downstream,
especially when the slope is steep or the flows are concentrated. The spacing
of silt fence on a slope should never be more than 100 feet to keep drainage
areas to one-fourth acre per 100 foot of run.
   B.   The silt screen shall have a minimum width of 24" and be installed in
such a manner so that the bottom of the screen is tucked into the surface of
the lot a minimum of 6" by digging a narrow slit and simultaneously tucking the
fabric into the ground and compacting the silt, thus reducing the chance of
piping under the fence.
   C.   The silt screen fence support posts shall be spaced along the entire
length of the fence with a maximum distance of 8' between the posts. Said posts
shall extend above the silt screen and be placed into the ground at a depth
consistent with their design and to provide adequate support of the silt
screen.
   D.   Silt screening shall also be constructed around any storm sewer or
drain intakes that could receive dirt or silt from the land disturbing
activity.
3.   Alternative Methods of Erosion Control. An alternative solution to erosion
control and siltation management may be proposed to the Zoning Officer such as
the use of compost blankets. Approved erosion control methods as defined in the
Iowa DNR erosion control manuals (including Construction Site Erosion Control
Manual and How To Control Streambank Erosion) or the Iowa Stormwater Management
Manual may be used if erosion is kept to acceptable levels and sediment is
contained on site. In addition, Section 402 of the U.S. Clean Water Act, which
contains the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
regulations, should be referenced.
4.   Duration. The silt screen fence or alternative method of erosion control
shall be installed before any land disturbing activity begins, and shall remain
in place and be maintained until all land disturbing activity is completed and
sufficient landscaping or vegetation stabilization exists to prevent any run-
off. National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPEDS) considers the site
stabilized when 70% of the soil surface is vegetated. Before the silt screen
fence or alternate method of erosion control is permanently removed, all
collected silt at the base of the fencing must be removed and disposed of at a
site that poses no continued threat of siltation.
5.   Permit. With a development of one acre or more, it is required to exhibit
to the City a copy of the NPDES permit before approval of a plat can be made.
145.04 VIOLATIONS.
Violations of this Chapter constitute a simple misdemeanor. Each day such
violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
CHAPTER 146
MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES
 
146.01 Definitions                 146.03 Foundation Requirements
146.02 Conversion to Real Property
 
146.01 DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.1)
1.   “Manufactured home” means a factory-built structure built under the
authority of 42 U.S.C. Sec. 5403 which was constructed on or after June 15,
1976, and is required by federal law to display a seal from the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development.
2.   “Manufactured home community” means any site, lot, field, or tract of land
under common ownership upon which ten or more occupied manufactured homes are
harbored, either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and includes any
building, structure or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the
equipment of the manufactured home community.
3.   “Mobile home” means any vehicle without motive power used or so
manufactured or constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon
the public streets and highways and so designed, constructed or reconstructed
as will permit the vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or
more persons; but also includes any such vehicle with motive power not
registered as a motor vehicle in Iowa. A mobile home means any such vehicle
built before June 15, 1976, which was not built to a mandatory building code
and which contains no State or federal seals.
4.   “Mobile home park” means any site, lot, field or tract of land upon which
three or more mobile homes or manufactured homes, or a combination of any of
these homes, are placed on developed spaces and operated as a for-profit
enterprise with water, sewer or septic, and electrical services available.
The term “manufactured home community” or “mobile home park” is not to be
construed to include manufactured or mobile homes, buildings, tents, or other
structures temporarily maintained by any individual, educational institution,
or company on its own premises and used exclusively to house said entity’s own
labor or students. The manufactured home community or mobile home park shall
meet the requirements of any zoning regulations that are in effect.
146.02 CONVERSION TO REAL PROPERTY.
A mobile home or manufactured home that is located outside a manufactured home
community or mobile home park shall be converted to real estate by being placed
on a permanent foundation and shall be assessed for real estate taxes except in
the following cases:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.26 & Sec. 435.35)
1.   Retailer’s Stock. Mobile homes or manufactured homes on private property
as part of a retailer’s or a manufacturer’s stock not used as a place for human
habitation.
2.   Existing Homes. A taxable mobile home or manufactured home that is located
outside of a manufactured home community or mobile home park as of January 1,
1995, shall be assessed and taxed as real estate, but is exempt from the
permanent foundation requirement of this chapter until the home is relocated.
146.03 FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS.
A mobile home or manufactured home located outside of a manufactured home
community or mobile home park shall be placed on a permanent frost-free
foundation system that meets the support and anchorage requirements as
recommended by the manufacturer or required by the State Building Code. The
foundation system must be visually compatible with permanent foundation systems
of surrounding residential structures. Any such home shall be installed in
accordance with the requirements of the State Building Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.10 & 414.28)
CHAPTER 151
TREES
 
151.01 Definition            151.04 Trimming Trees to Be Supervised
151.02 Planting Restrictions 151.05 Disease Control
151.03 Duty to Trim Trees    151.06 Inspection and Removal
 
151.01 DEFINITION.
For use in this chapter, “parking” means that part of the street, avenue, or
highway in the City not covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and
the curb line or, on unpaved streets, that part of the street, avenue, or
highway lying between the lot line and that portion of the street usually
traveled by vehicular traffic.
151.02 PLANTING RESTRICTIONS.
No tree shall be planted in any parking or street except in accordance with the
following:
1.   Alignment. All trees planted in any street shall be planted in the parking
midway between the outer line of the sidewalk and the curb. In the event a curb
line is not established, trees shall be planted on a line 10 feet from the
property line. No coniferous evergreen trees shall be planted in the parking.
2.   Spacing. Trees shall not be planted closer than 30 feet from one another
and 10 feet from street intersections (property lines extended) and driveways.
No plant should be planted within five feet of the curb line or sidewalk except
in the business district. If it is at all possible, trees should be planted
inside the property lines and not between the sidewalk and the curb.
3.   Prohibited Trees. No person shall plant in any street any fruit-bearing
tree or any tree of the kinds commonly known as cottonwood, poplar, box elder,
Chinese elm, evergreen, willow, or black walnut.
4.   Plantings. It is unlawful to plant or maintain on any parking, street, or
other public place, any shrubbery or other plantings, except trees or annual
flowers.
5.   Electrical Wires. No tree shall be planted under any electrical
distribution or transmission wires.
151.03 DUTY TO TRIM TREES.
The owner or agent of the abutting property shall keep the trees on, or
overhanging the street, trimmed so that all branches will be at least 15 feet
above the surface of the street and eight feet above the sidewalks. If the
abutting property owner fails to trim the trees, the City may serve notice on
the abutting property owner requiring that such action be taken within five
days. If such action is not taken within that time, the City may perform the
required action and assess the costs against the abutting property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c, d & e])
151.04 TRIMMING TREES TO BE SUPERVISED.
Except as allowed in Section
151.03, it is unlawful for any person to trim or cut any tree in a street or
public place unless the work is done under the supervision of the City.
151.05 DISEASE CONTROL.
Any dead, diseased, or damaged tree or shrub that may harbor serious insect or
disease pests or disease injurious to other trees is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
151.06 INSPECTION AND REMOVAL.
The Council shall inspect or cause to be inspected any trees or shrubs in the
City reported or suspected to be dead, diseased or damaged, and such trees and
shrubs shall be subject to the following:
1.   City Property. If it is determined that any such condition exists on any
public property, including the strip between the curb and the lot line of
private property, the Council may cause such condition to be corrected by
treatment or removal. The Council may also order the removal of any trees on
the streets of the City which interfere with the making of improvements or with
travel thereon.
2.   Private Property. If it is determined with reasonable certainty that any
such condition exists on private property and that danger to other trees or to
adjoining property or passing motorists or pedestrians is imminent, the Council
shall notify by certified mail the owner, occupant or person in charge of such
property to correct such condition by treatment or removal within 14 days of
said notification. If such owner, occupant, or person in charge of said
property fails to comply within 14 days of receipt of notice, the Council may
cause the condition to be corrected and the cost assessed against the property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3b & h])
CHAPTER 153
DRIVEWAY REGULATIONS
 
153.01 Definitions           153.04 Inspection and Approval
153.02 Driveway Requirements 153.05 Driveway Culverts
153.03 Sidewalks
 
153.01 DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined.
1.   “Driveway” means that part of any approach for motor vehicles to private
property that lies between the property line and the roadway of the public
street.
2.   “Paving” means any kind of hard surfacing including, but not limited to,
Portland cement concrete, asphaltic concrete, brick, or combinations of such
materials, with the necessary base. “Paving” shall not include surfacing with
oil, gravel, oil and gravel, or chloride.
153.02 DRIVEWAY REQUIREMENTS.
All driveways shall be of paving of a depth of not less than six inches. The
driveway may be placed directly on compact and well-drained soil. Where soil is
not well-drained, a six-inch sub-base of compact, clean coarse gravel, sand, or
cinders shall be laid. The driveway shall slope not more than two inches per
foot toward the roadway.
1.   Residential Driveway Widths. Limit one driveway entrance per street
frontage. Twenty-four feet maximum at curb, or the width of the garage,
whichever is greater. An additional two feet per side is permitted to provide
an entry flare or radius.
2.   Commercial or Industrial Driveway Widths. Not more than two driveway
entrances per street frontage. Maximum width at curb per driveway - 75 feet.
Not more than 60% of the street frontage shall be used for driveway and there
shall be a minimum of 30 feet between driveway entrances. Existing vertical
curb and gutter section must be replaced with drive-over curb and gutter
section to City specifications on new driveway construction.
3.   Intersections. No driveway shall be constructed within 30 feet of an
intersecting street curb line or within one foot of the adjacent property line
at the curb.
4.   Variances. The City Council has authority to grant variances from the
above standards in situations where the variances will not create any
substantial hazard in the use of the street or sidewalk for public travel or
drainage, or create any defect.
153.03 SIDEWALKS.
The grade of any sidewalk shall not be altered by the work done. The driveway
at the sidewalk area shall be at the same level as any existing sidewalk.
153.04 INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
The driveway must be inspected and approved by the City within thirty days
after completion of the work. If the City refuses to approve the work, it must
be corrected immediately so that it will meet approval. If the work has been
done improperly, the City shall have the right to finish or correct the work
and assess the costs to the property owner. Such assessment shall be collected
with the general property taxes and in the same manner.
153.05 DRIVEWAY CULVERTS.
The property owner shall, at the owner’s expense, install any culvert deemed
necessary under any driveway or any other access to the owner’s property, and
before installing a culvert, permission must be first obtained from the City.
In the event repairs are needed at any time with respect to culverts, it shall
be the responsibility of the property owner to make such repairs, and, in the
event he fails to do so, the City shall have the right to make the repairs. If
the property owner fails to reimburse the City for the cost of said repairs,
the cost shall be certified to the County Auditor and specially assessed
against the property as by law provided.
CHAPTER 165
ZONING REGULATIONS
 
EDITOR’S NOTE
The Orleans Zoning Code adopted January 9, 2017, by Ordinance No. 202 and
amendments thereto, contained in a separate volume, are a part of this Code
of Ordinances and are in full force and effect. The following ordinances have
been adopted amending the Zoning Regulations of the City.
ORDINANCE ADOPTED         SUBJECT
214       January 9, 2023 Accessory Buildings
215       January 9, 2023 Use of Campgrounds in Agricultural Zoning District
 
