CODE OF ORDINANCES
OF THE
CITY OF
PIERSON, IOWA
Adopted November 21, 2016, by Ordinance No. 160
Code current through: Ord. 195, passed 4-10-24
 
Prepared By:   IOWA CODIFICATION, INC.
P. O. Box 141
610 Buddy Holly Place
Clear Lake, Iowa 50428
(641) 357-7596
www.iowacodification.com
SUPPLEMENT RECORD
SUPPLEMENT ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No.  Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date Subject
SUPPLEMENT ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No.  Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date     Subject
Dec-19     100.02                  161      9-18-17  System Improvement
                                                     Surcharge
           91.02                   162      2-19-18  Water Use Metered
           92.02                   163      5-21-18  Water Rates
           115.05; 115.06          164      5-21-18  Cemetery Regulations
           Ch. 77                  165      5-21-18  Golf Carts
           100.02                  166      12-17-18 System Improvement
                                                     Surcharge
           106.08                  167      5-20-19  Solid Waste Collection
                                                     Fees
           92.05                   168      7-15-19  Water Service Discontinued
           7.05                    169      12-16-19 Operating Budget
                                                     Preparation
           5.07(10-12)             170      12-16-19 Conflict of Interest
May-23     92.05                   171      6-10-20  Service Discontinued
           100.02                  172      2-10-21  System Improvement
                                                     Surcharge
           Ch. 155                 173      5-12-21  Storage Container
           Ch. 137                 174      8-11-21  Alley Vacation
           92.02                   175      8-11-21  Water Rates
           99.02                   176      8-11-21  Sewer Rates
           Ch. 155                 177      3-9-22   Cargo Containers
           145.02                  178      6-8-22   Property Maintenance Code
           69.07(18)               179      2-8-23   Parking Regulations
           Ch. 110                 180      3-8-23   Electric Franchise
           100.02                  181      4-12-23  System Improvement
                                                     Surcharge
           92.02                   182      4-12-23  Water Rates
           99.02                   183      5-10-23  Sewer Rates
           15.04                   184      5-10-23  Compensation of Mayor
           17.06                   185      5-10-23  Compensation of City
                                                     Council
Oct-23     115.07                  186      8-9-23   Burial of Persons on
                                                     Private Property
           121.05                  187      10-11-23 Cigarette and Tobacco
                                                     Permits
           7.05; 7.08              188      10-11-23 Fiscal Management
           Ch. 9                   189      10-11-23 Debt Setoff Policy and
                                                     Procedures
Dec-23     105.05(2); 150.05(3)    190      12-13-23 Open Burning
           47.06                   191      12-13-23 Camping
           150.02; 150.05; 150.06  192      12-13-23 Building Permits
           35.07(3); 35.08; 35.15  193      12-13-23 Fire Department
Apr-24     Ch. 160                 194      4-10-24  Floodplain Management
           91.08; 92.02; 92.05(4)  195      4-10-24  Water Rates, Fees, and
                                                     Shut Off
Jan-25     69.10                   196      5-8-24   Snow Emergency Parking
           105.05(4)               197      9-11-24  Recreational Fires
 
CHAPTER 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES
1.01 Title                  1.09 Catchlines and Notes
1.02 Definitions            1.10 Altering Code
1.03 City Powers            1.11 Severability
1.04 Indemnity              1.12 Warrants
1.05 Personal Injuries      1.13 General Standards for Action
1.06 Rules of Construction  1.14 Standard Penalty
1.07 Extension of Authority 1.15 Right of Entry
1.08 Amendments
 
1.01 TITLE.
   This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Pierson, Iowa.
1.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Where words and phrases used in this Code of Ordinances are defined in the
Code of Iowa, such definitions apply to their use in this Code of Ordinances
unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the
Council or repugnant to the context of the provision. Other words and phrases
used herein have the following meanings, unless specifically defined otherwise
in another portion of this Code of Ordinances or unless such construction would
be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council or repugnant to the
context of the provision:
   1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street, affording
secondary means of access to abutting property.
   2.   “City” means the City of Pierson, Iowa.
   3.   “Clerk” means the city clerk of Pierson, Iowa.
   4.   “Code” means the specific chapter of this Code of Ordinances in which a
specific subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such as the
Building Code and/or a standard code adopted by reference).
   5.   “Code of Ordinances” means the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Pierson, Iowa.
   6.   “Council” means the city council of Pierson, Iowa.
   7.   “County” means Woodbury County, Iowa.
   8.   “May” confers a power.
   9.   “Measure” means an ordinance, amendment, resolution or motion.
   10.   “Must” states a requirement.
   11.   “Occupant” or “tenant,” applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
   12.   “Ordinances” means the ordinances of the City of Pierson, Iowa, as
embodied in this Code of Ordinances, ordinances not repealed by the ordinance
adopting this Code of Ordinances, and those enacted hereafter.
   13.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust or other
legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.
   14.   “Public way” includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.
   15.   “Shall” imposes a duty.
   16.   “Sidewalk” means that surfaced portion of the street between the edge
of the traveled way, surfacing, or curb line and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   17.   “State” means the State of Iowa.
   18.   “Statutes” or “laws” means the latest edition of the Code of Iowa, as
amended.
   19.   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
   Words that are not defined in this Code of Ordinances or by the Code of Iowa
have their ordinary meaning unless such construction would be inconsistent with
the manifest intent of the Council, or repugnant to the context of the
provision.
1.03 CITY POWERS.
   The City may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if
not inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any power
and perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the
rights, privileges and property of the City and of its residents, and to
preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort and
convenience of its residents and each and every provision of this Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and
the performance of the foregoing functions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.1)
1.04 INDEMNITY.
   The applicant for any permit or license under this Code of Ordinances, by
making such application, assumes and agrees to pay for any injury to or death
of any person or persons whomsoever, and any loss of or damage to property
whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however arising
from or related to, directly, indirectly or remotely, the issuance of the
permit or license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of such
applicant, or the agents, employees or servants of such applicant, to abide by
or comply with any of the provisions of this Code of Ordinances or the terms
and conditions of such permit or license, and such applicant, by making such
application, forever agrees to indemnify the City and its officers, agents and
employees, and agrees to save them harmless from any and all claims, demands,
lawsuits or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage, injury or death,
including all costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason of the foregoing.
The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a part of any permit or
license issued under this Code of Ordinances or any other ordinance of the City
whether expressly recited therein or not.
1.05 PERSONAL INJURIES.
   When action is brought against the City for personal injuries alleged to
have been caused by its negligence, the City may notify in writing any person
by whose negligence it claims the injury was caused. The notice shall state the
pendency of the action, the name of the plaintiff, the name and location of the
court where the action is pending, a brief statement of the alleged facts from
which the cause arose, that the City believes that the person notified is
liable to it for any judgment rendered against the City, and asking the person
to appear and defend. A judgment obtained in the suit is conclusive in any
action by the City against any person so notified, as to the existence of the
defect or other cause of the injury or damage, as to the liability of the City
to the plaintiff in the first named action, and as to the amount of the damage
or injury. The City may maintain an action against the person notified to
recover the amount of the judgment together with all the expenses incurred by
the City in the suit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.14)
1.06 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the rules of statutory
construction as set forth in Chapter 4 of the Code of Iowa shall be utilized to
ascertain the intent of the Council with the understanding that the term
“statute” as used therein will be deemed to be synonymous with the term
“ordinance” when applied to this Code of Ordinances.
1.07 EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
   Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this Code of Ordinances, the provision shall be construed as
authorizing performance by a regular assistant, subordinate or a duly
authorized designee of said officer or employee.
1.08 AMENDMENTS.
   All ordinances which amend, repeal or in any manner affect this Code of
Ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, subsection, or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.2)
1.09 CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of the Code of Ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section and subsection), editor’s notes, cross references
and State law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself,
contained in the Code of Ordinances, do not constitute any part of the law, and
are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement or clarify the contents of
a section.
1.10 ALTERING CODE.
   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend by additions
or deletions, any part or portion of the Code of Ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the Code of
Ordinances in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
1.11 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, provision, or part of the Code of Ordinances is adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity of
the Code of Ordinances as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof
not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
1.12 WARRANTS.
   If consent to enter upon or inspect any building, structure or property
pursuant to a municipal ordinance is withheld by any person having the lawful
right to exclude, the City officer or employee having the duty to enter upon or
conduct the inspection may apply to the Iowa District Court in and for the
County, pursuant to Section 808.14 of the Code of Iowa, for an administrative
search warrant. No owner, operator or occupant or any other person having
charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, rooming unit, structure,
building, or premises shall fail or neglect, after presentation of a search
warrant, to permit entry therein by the municipal officer or employee.
1.13 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACTION.
   Whenever this Code of Ordinances grants any discretionary power to the
Council or any commission, board or officer or employee of the City and does
not specify standards to govern the exercise of the power, the power shall be
exercised in light of the following standard: The discretionary power to grant,
deny or revoke any matter shall be considered in light of the facts and
circumstances then existing and as may be reasonably foreseeable, and due
consideration shall be given to the impact upon the public health, safety, and
welfare, and the decision shall be that of a reasonably prudent person under
similar circumstances in the exercise of the police power.
1.14 STANDARD PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this Code of Ordinances for
violation of any particular provision, section or chapter, any person failing
to perform a duty required by this Code of Ordinances or otherwise violating
any provision of this Code of Ordinances or any rule or regulation adopted
herein by reference shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of at least
$65.00 but not to exceed $625.00. The court may order imprisonment not to
exceed 30 days in lieu of a fine or in addition to a fine. † 1   
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[2] and 903.1[1a])
 
Notes
1 † EDITOR’S NOTE: For civil penalty for violations of this Code of Ordinances, see
  Chapter 3.
1.15 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any ordinance, or
whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that there exists an ordinance
violation in any building or upon any premises within the jurisdiction of the
City, any authorized official of the City may, upon presentation of proper
credentials, enter such building or premises at all reasonable times to inspect
the same and to perform any duty imposed upon such official by ordinance;
provided, except in emergency situations, such official shall first give the
owner and/or occupant, if they can be located after reasonable effort, 24-hour
written notice of the authorized official’s intention to inspect. In the event
the owner or occupant refuses entry, the official is empowered to seek
assistance from any court of competent jurisdiction in obtaining such entry.
CHAPTER 2
CHARTER
 
2.01 Title                              2.04 Number and Term of Council
2.02 Form of Government                 2.05 Term of Mayor
2.03 Powers and Duties of City Officers 2.06 Copies on File
 
2.01 TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the charter of the City of Pierson, Iowa.
2.02 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government of the City is the Mayor-Council form of government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
2.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   The Council and Mayor and other City officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by State law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the City.
2.04 NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
   The Council consists of five Council Members elected at large for
overlapping terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.05 TERM OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor is elected for a term of two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.06 COPIES ON FILE.
   The Clerk shall keep an official copy of the charter on file with the
official records of the Clerk and the Secretary of State, and shall keep copies
of the charter available at the Clerk’s office for public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.1)
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
 
3.01 Municipal Infraction    3.04 Civil Citations
3.02 Environmental Violation 3.05 Alternative Relief
3.03 Penalties               3.06 Alternative Penalties
 
3.01 MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
   A violation of, or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty
required by, this Code of Ordinances or any ordinance or code herein adopted by
reference with the exception of those provisions specifically provided under
State law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious misdemeanor, or
a simple misdemeanor under Chapters 687 through 747 of the Code of Iowa, is a
municipal infraction punishable by civil penalty as provided herein.† 2
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[3])
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: For criminal penalty for violations of this Code of
2 Ordinances, see Section
  1.14.
3.02 ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATION.
   A municipal infraction which is a violation of Chapter 455B of the Code of
Iowa or of a standard established by the City in consultation with the
Department of Natural Resources, or both, may be classified as an environmental
violation. However, the provisions of this section shall not be applicable
until the City has offered to participate in informal negotiations regarding
the violation or to the following specific violations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22 [1])
   1.   A violation arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment standard or
requirement referred to in 40 C.F.R. § 403.8.
   2.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person not engaged in the industrial
production or manufacturing of grain products.
   3.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person engaged in such industrial production
or manufacturing if such discharge occurs from September 15 to January 15.
3.03 PENALTIES.
   A municipal infraction is punishable by the following civil penalties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22 [1])
   1.   Standard Civil Penalties.
      A.   First offense – not to exceed $750.00
      B.   Each repeat offense – not to exceed $1,000.00
Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a repeat
offense.
   2.   Special Civil Penalties.
      A.   A municipal infraction arising from noncompliance with a
pretreatment standard or requirement, referred to in 40 C.F.R. § 403.8, by an
industrial user is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each
day a violation exists or continues.
      B.   A municipal infraction classified as an environmental violation is
punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each occurrence.
However, an environmental violation is not subject to such penalty if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
         (1)   The violation results solely from conducting an initial startup,
cleaning, repairing, performing scheduled maintenance, testing, or conducting a
shutdown of either equipment causing the violation or the equipment designed to
reduce or eliminate the violation.
         (2)   The City is notified of the violation within 24 hours from the
time that the violation begins.
         (3)   The violation does not continue in existence for more than eight
hours.
3.04 CIVIL CITATIONS.
   Any officer authorized by the City to enforce this Code of Ordinances may
issue a civil citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction. A copy
of the citation may be served by personal service as provided in Rule of Civil
Procedure 1.305, by certified mail addressed to the defendant at defendant’s
last known mailing address, return receipt requested, or by publication in the
manner as provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.310 and subject to the
conditions of Rule of Civil Procedure 1.311. A copy of the citation shall be
retained by the issuing officer, and the original citation shall be sent to the
Clerk of the District Court. The citation shall serve as notification that a
civil offense has been committed and shall contain the following information:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[4])
   1.   The name and address of the defendant.
   2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation.
   3.   The location and time of the infraction.
   4.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative relief
sought, or both.
   5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid.
   6.   The time and place of court appearance.
   7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.
   8.   The legal description of the affected real property, if applicable.
   If the citation affects real property and charges a violation relating to
the condition of the property, including a building code violation, a local
housing regulation violation, a housing code violation, or a public health or
safety violation, after filing the citation with the Clerk of the District
Court, the City shall also file the citation in the office of the County
Treasurer.
3.05 ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.  
   Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not preclude the
City from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action. Such
alternative relief may include, but is not limited to, an order for abatement
or injunctive relief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22 [8])
3.06 ALTERNATIVE PENALTIES.
   This chapter does not preclude a peace officer from issuing a criminal
citation for a violation of this Code of Ordinances or regulation if criminal
penalties are also provided for the violation. Nor does it preclude or limit
the authority of the City to enforce the provisions of this Code of Ordinances
by criminal sanctions or other lawful means.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[11])
CHAPTER 5
OPERATING PROCEDURES
 
5.01 Oaths                 5.08 Resignations
5.02 Bonds                 5.09 Removal of Appointed Officers and Employees
5.03 Powers and Duties     5.10 Vacancies
5.04 Books and Records     5.11 Gifts
5.05 Transfer to Successor 5.12 Nepotism
5.06 Meetings              5.13 Offset Appeal Process
5.07 Conflict of Interest
 
5.01 OATHS.
   The oath of office shall be required and administered in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Qualify for Office. Each elected or appointed officer shall qualify for
office by taking the prescribed oath and by giving, when required, a bond. The
oath shall be taken, and bond provided, after such officer is certified as
elected, no later than noon of the first day that is not a Sunday or a legal
holiday in January of the first year of the term for which the officer was
elected.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.1)
   2.   Prescribed Oath. The prescribed oath is: “I, (name), do solemnly swear
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of the State of Iowa, and that I will faithfully and impartially, to the best
of my ability, discharge all duties of the office of (name of office) in
Pierson as now or hereafter required by law.”
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.10)
   3.   Officers Empowered to Administer Oaths. The following are empowered to
administer oaths and to take affirmations in any matter pertaining to the
business of their respective offices:
      A.   Mayor
      B.   City Clerk
      C.   Members of all boards, commissions, or bodies created by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63A.2)
5.02 BONDS.
   Surety bonds are provided in accordance with the following:
   1.   Required. The Council shall provide by resolution for a surety bond or
blanket position bond running to the City and covering the Mayor, Clerk,
Treasurer, and such other officers and employees as may be necessary and
advisable.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.13)
   2.   Bonds Approved. Bonds shall be approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.19)
   3.   Bonds Filed. All bonds, after approval and proper record, shall be
filed with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.23[6])
   4.   Record. The Clerk shall keep a book, to be known as the “Record of
Official Bonds” in which shall be recorded the official bonds of all City
officers, elective or appointive.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.24[3])
5.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Each municipal officer shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
prescribed by law and Code of Ordinances, or as otherwise directed by the
Council unless contrary to State law or City charter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.04 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   All books and records required to be kept by law or ordinance shall be open
to examination by the public upon request, unless some other provisions of law
expressly limit such right or require such records to be kept confidential.
Access to public records that are combined with data processing software shall
be in accordance with policies and procedures established by the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 22.2 & 22.3A)
5.05 TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR.
   Each officer shall transfer to his or her successor in office all books,
papers, records, documents and property in the officer’s custody and
appertaining to that office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.06 MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Council, any board or commission, or any multi-membered
body formally and directly created by any of the foregoing bodies shall be held
in accordance with the following:
   1.   Notice of Meetings. Reasonable notice, as defined by State law, of the
time, date, and place of each meeting, and its tentative agenda, shall be
given.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4)
   2.   Meetings Open. All meetings shall be held in open session unless closed
sessions are held as expressly permitted by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   3.   Minutes. Minutes shall be kept of all meetings showing the date, time
and place, the members present, and the action taken at each meeting. The
minutes shall show the results of each vote taken and information sufficient to
indicate the vote of each member present. The vote of each member present shall
be made public at the open session. The minutes shall be public records open to
public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   4.   Closed Session. A closed session may be held only by affirmative vote
of either two-thirds of the body or all of the members present at the meeting
and in accordance with Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.5)
   5.   Cameras and Recorders. The public may use cameras or recording devices
at any open session.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.7)
   6.   Electronic Meetings. A meeting may be conducted by electronic means
only in circumstances where such a meeting in person is impossible or
impractical and then only in compliance with the provisions of Chapter 21 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8)
5.07 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   A City officer or employee shall not have an interest, direct or indirect,
in any contract or job of work or material or the profits thereof or services
to be furnished or performed for the City, unless expressly permitted by law. A
contract entered into in violation of this section is void. The provisions of
this section do not apply to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5)
   1.   Compensation of Officers. The payment of lawful compensation of a City
officer or employee holding more than one City office or position, the holding
of which is not incompatible with another public office or is not prohibited by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3a])
   2.   Investment of Funds. The designation of a bank or trust company as a
depository, paying agent, or for investment of funds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3b])
   3.   City Treasurer. An employee of a bank or trust company, who serves as
Treasurer of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3c])
   4.   Stock Interests. Contracts in which a City officer or employee has an
interest solely by reason of employment, or a stock interest of the kind
described in subsection 8 of this section, or both, if the contracts are made
by competitive bid in writing, publicly invited and opened, or if the
remuneration of employment will not be directly affected as a result of the
contract and the duties of employment do not directly involve the procurement
or preparation of any part of the contract. The competitive bid qualification
of this subsection does not apply to a contract for professional services not
customarily awarded by competitive bid.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3e])
   5.   Newspaper. The designation of an official newspaper.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3f])
   6.   Existing Contracts. A contract in which a City officer or employee has
an interest if the contract was made before the time the officer or employee
was elected or appointed, but the contract may not be renewed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3g])
   7.   Volunteers. Contracts with volunteer firefighters or civil defense
volunteers.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3h])
   8.   Corporations. A contract with a corporation in which a City officer or
employee has an interest by reason of stock holdings when less than five
percent of the outstanding stock of the corporation is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the officer or employee or the spouse or immediate
family of such officer or employee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3i])
   9.   Contracts. Contracts made by the City upon competitive bid in writing,
publicly invited, and opened.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3d])
   10.   Cumulative Purchases. Contracts not otherwise permitted by this
section, for the purchase of goods or services that benefit a City officer or
employee, if the purchases benefiting that officer or employee do not exceed a
cumulative total purchase price of $6,000.00 in a fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3j])
   11.   Franchise Agreements. Franchise agreements between the City and a
utility and contracts entered into by the City for the provision of essential
City utility services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3k])
   12.   Third Party Contracts. A contract that is a bond, note or other
obligation of the City and the contract is not acquired directly from the City
but is acquired in a transaction with a third party who may or may not be the
original underwriter, purchaser, or obligee of the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3l])
(Subsections 10-12 – Ord. 170 – Dec. 19 Supp.)
5.08 RESIGNATIONS.
   An elected officer who wishes to resign may do so by submitting a
resignation in writing to the Clerk so that it shall be properly recorded and
considered. A person who resigns from an elective office is not eligible for
appointment to the same office during the time for which the person was
elected, if during that time the compensation of the office has been increased.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[9])
5.09 REMOVAL OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Except as otherwise provided by State or City law, all persons appointed to
City office or employment may be removed by the officer or body making the
appointment, but every such removal shall be by written order. The order shall
give the reasons, be filed in the office of the Clerk, and a copy shall be sent
by certified mail to the person removed, who, upon request filed with the Clerk
within 30 days after the date of mailing the copy, shall be granted a public
hearing before the Council on all issues connected with the removal. The
hearing shall be held within 30 days after the date the request is filed,
unless the person removed requests a later date.
   (Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.15)
5.10 VACANCIES.
   A vacancy in an elective City office during a term of office shall be filled
in accordance with Section 372.13[2] of the Code of Iowa.
5.11 GIFTS.
   Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 68B of the Code of Iowa, a public
official, public employee or candidate, or that person’s immediate family
member, shall not, directly or indirectly, accept or receive any gift or series
of gifts from a “restricted donor” as defined in Chapter 68B and a restricted
donor shall not, directly or indirectly, individually or jointly with one or
more other restricted donors, offer or make a gift or a series of gifts to a
public official, public employee or candidate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 68B.22)
5.12 NEPOTISM.
   1.   In order to avoid favoritism or the appearance of favoritism based on
family relationships, no one shall be employed in a Department where the
immediate Supervisor, Superintendent, or Department Head is a member of said
person’s immediate family. “Immediate family” is defined to include only an
employee’s parents, stepparents, stepchildren, spouse, children, sister,
brother, grandparents, grandchildren, mother- or father-in-law, sons- or
daughters-in-law and brothers- or sisters-in-law.
   2.   In addition to the above, no person shall be employed in a position in
any division, if that person is a member of the immediate family of another
employee within that division. Members of immediate families may be employed
within the same division as seasonal or temporary employees for a period not to
exceed six months in any 12 consecutive months.
   3.   If two employees marry or otherwise obtain a relationship whereby they
become members of each other’s immediate family, in compliance with subsections
1 and 2 above, one of the employees shall be transferred to another division or
department, if possible, without loss of pay or benefits. However, the
establishment of such a relationship shall not be the basis for termination of
employment.
5.13 OFFSET APPEAL PROCESS.
   Upon the receipt of notice by the City, from the State Offset Program, of a
“hit,” meaning that funds are owed by the State of Iowa to a person or entity
whose name was submitted to the State by the City of Pierson as owing money to
the City, the City shall:
   1.   Notify the person/entity in writing at said person’s last known address
of the “hit” and of the right to request a hearing/appeal with the City of
Pierson and the appeal process to be employed.
   2.   In the event written notice of appeal and/or written request for a
hearing is received, the following hearing process will be followed:
      A.   A letter shall be sent to the person at said person’s last known
address, advising of said person’s right to appeal the offset with the City.
      B.   The appeal shall be heard by the City within 14 days after the
receipt of the written appeal.
      C.   An attempt will be made to work with the appellant to schedule the
hearing on a date and time that will work for the appellant; however, all
hearings will be held between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:30 p.m., Monday
through Friday.
      D.   In the event that the appeal involves a City utility-related
billing, the appeal shall be heard by the City Clerk, Mayor, and a Council
member. After their consideration of the testimony and/or evidence presented by
the appellant, a decision shall be made within three days, with written notice
of the decision being sent to the appellant by regular mail.
      E.   In the event that the appeal involves a City Ambulance-related
billing, the appeal shall be heard by the City Clerk, the Ambulance Director,
and the Mayor. After their consideration of the testimony and/or evidence
presented by the appellant, a decision shall be made within three days, with
written notice of the decision being sent to the appellant by regular mail.
      F.   In the event that the appeal involves any other City-related
billing, the appeal shall be heard by the City Clerk, Mayor, and a Council
member. After their consideration of the testimony and/or evidence presented by
the appellant, a decision shall be made within three days, with written notice
of the decision being sent to the appellant by regular mail.
CHAPTER 6
CITY ELECTIONS
 
6.01 Nominating Method to be Used 6.04 Preparation of Petition and Affidavit
6.02 Nominations by Petition      6.05 Filing, Presumption, Withdrawals,
                                  Objections
6.03 Adding Name by Petition      6.06 Persons Elected
 
6.01 NOMINATING METHOD TO BE USED.
   All candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated under the
provisions of Chapter 45 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.3)
6.02 NOMINATIONS BY PETITION.
   Nominations for elective municipal offices of the City may be made by
nomination paper or papers signed by not less than ten (10) eligible electors,
residents of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.1)
6.03 ADDING NAME BY PETITION.
   The name of a candidate placed upon the ballot by any other method than by
petition shall not be added by petition for the same office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.2)
6.04 PREPARATION OF PETITION AND AFFIDAVIT.
   Nomination papers shall include a petition and an affidavit of candidacy.
The petition and affidavit shall be substantially in the form prescribed by the
State Commissioner of Elections, shall include information required by the Code
of Iowa, and shall be signed in accordance with the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.3, 45.5 & 45.6)
6.05 FILING, PRESUMPTION, WITHDRAWALS, OBJECTIONS.
   The time and place of filing nomination petitions, the presumption of
validity thereof, the right of a candidate so nominated to withdraw and the
effect of such withdrawal, and the right to object to the legal sufficiency of
such petitions, or to the eligibility of the candidate, shall be governed by
the appropriate provisions of Chapter 44 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.4)
6.06 PERSONS ELECTED.
   The candidates who receive the greatest number of votes for each office on
the ballot are elected, to the extent necessary to fill the positions open.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.8[3])
CHAPTER 7
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
 
7.01 Purpose         7.05 Operating Budget Preparation
7.02 Finance Officer 7.06 Budget Amendments
7.03 Cash Control    7.07 Accounting
7.04 Fund Control    7.08 Financial Reports
 
7.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and provide for rules
and regulations governing the management of the financial affairs of the City.
7.02 FINANCE OFFICER.
   The Clerk is the finance and accounting officer of the City and is
responsible for the administration of the provisions of this chapter.
7.03 CASH CONTROL.
   To assure the proper accounting and safe custody of moneys the following
shall apply:
   1.   Deposit of Funds. All moneys or fees collected for any purpose by any
City officer shall be deposited through the office of the finance officer. If
any said fees are due to an officer, they shall be paid to the officer by check
drawn by the finance officer and approved by the Council only upon such
officer’s making adequate reports relating thereto as required by law,
ordinance, or Council directive.
   2.   Deposits and Investments. All moneys belonging to the City shall be
promptly deposited in depositories selected by the Council in amounts not
exceeding the authorized depository limitation established by the Council or
invested in accordance with the City’s written investment policy and State law,
including joint investments as authorized by Section 384.21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.21, 12B.10, 12C.1)
7.04 FUND CONTROL.
   There shall be established and maintained separate and distinct funds in
accordance with the following:
   1.   Revenues. All moneys received by the City shall be credited to the
proper fund as required by law, ordinance, or resolution.
   2.   Expenditures. No disbursement shall be made from a fund unless such
disbursement is authorized by law, ordinance, or resolution, was properly
budgeted, and supported by a claim approved by the Council.
   3.   Emergency Fund. No transfer may be made from any fund to the Emergency
Fund.
(IAC, 545-2.5 [384,388], Sec. 2.5[2])
   4.   Debt Service Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by State law,
moneys may be transferred from any other City fund to the Debt Service Fund to
meet payments of principal and interest. Such transfers must be authorized by
the original budget or a budget amendment.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388] Sec. 2.5[3])
   5.   Capital Improvements Reserve Fund. Except where specifically prohibited
by State law, moneys may be transferred from any City fund to the Capital
Improvements Reserve Fund. Such transfers must be authorized by the original
budget or a budget amendment.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388] Sec. 2.5[4])
   6.   Utility and Enterprise Funds. A surplus in a Utility or Enterprise Fund
may be transferred to any other City fund, except the Emergency Fund and Road
Use Tax Funds, by resolution of the Council. A surplus may exist only after all
required transfers have been made to any restricted accounts in accordance with
the terms and provisions of any revenue bonds or loan agreements relating to
the Utility or Enterprise Fund. A surplus is defined as the cash balance in the
operating account or the unrestricted retained earnings calculated in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in excess of:
      A.   The amount of the expense of disbursements for operating and
maintaining the utility or enterprise for the preceding three (3) months, and
      B.   The amount necessary to make all required transfers to restricted
accounts for the succeeding three (3) months.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388], Sec. 2.5[5])
   7.   Balancing of Funds. Fund accounts shall be reconciled at the close of
each month and a report thereof submitted to the Council.
7.05 OPERATING BUDGET PREPARATION.
   The annual operating budget of the City shall be prepared in accordance with
the following:
   1.   Proposal Prepared. The finance officer is responsible for preparation
of the annual budget detail, for review by the Mayor and Council and adoption
by the Council in accordance with directives of the Mayor and Council.
   2.   Boards and Commissions. All boards, commissions, and other
administrative agencies of the City that are authorized to prepare and
administer budgets must submit their budget proposals to the finance officer
for inclusion in the proposed City budget at such time and in such form as
required by the Council.
   3.   Submission to Council. The finance officer shall submit the completed
budget proposal to the Council each year at such time as directed by the
Council.
   4.   Annual Statement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 24.2A[2])
      A.   On or before March 15 of each year, the City shall file, with the
Department of Management, a report containing all necessary information for the
Department of Management to compile and calculate amounts required to be
included in the statement mailed under Paragraph B.
      B.   Not later than March 20, the County Auditor, using information
compiled and calculated by the Department of Management shall send to each
property owner or taxpayer within the County, by regular mail, an individual
statement containing all of the required information as provided under Section
24.2(2)(B)(1-9) of the Code of Iowa.
      C.   The Department of Management shall prescribe the form for the report
required under Paragraph A, the statements to be mailed under Paragraph B, and
the public hearing notice required under Paragraph D.
      D.   The Council shall set a time and place for a public hearing on the
City’s proposed property tax amount for the budget year and the City’s
information included in the statements under Paragraph B. At the hearing, the
Council shall receive oral or written testimony from any resident or property
owner of the City. This public hearing shall be separate from any other meeting
of the Council, including any other meeting or public hearing relating to the
City’s budget, and other business of the City that is not related to the
proposed property tax amounts and the information in the statements shall not
be conducted at the public hearing. After all testimony has been received and
considered, the governing body may decrease, but not increase, the proposed
property tax amount to be included in the City’s budget.
         (1)   Notice of the public hearing shall be published not less than 10
nor more than 20 days prior to the hearing, in a newspaper published at least
once weekly and having general circulation in the City. However, if the City
has a population of 200 or less, publication may be made by posting in three
public places in the City.
         (2)   Notice of the hearing shall also be posted and clearly
identified on the City’s internet site for public viewing beginning on the date
of the newspaper publication and shall be maintained on the City’s internet
site with all such prior year notices and copies of the statements mailed under
this section.
         (3)   Additionally, if the City maintains a social media account on
one or more social media applications, the public hearing notice or an
electronic link to the public hearing notice shall be posted on each such
account on the same day as the publication of the notice.
   5.   Council Review. The Council shall review the proposed budget and may
make any adjustments it deems appropriate in the budget before accepting such
proposal for publication, hearing, and final adoption.
   6.   Notice of Hearing. Following, and not until the requirements, of
Subsection 4 of this section, are completed, the Council shall set a time and
place for public hearing on the budget to be held before April 30 and shall
publish notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days before the
hearing. A summary of the proposed budget and a description of the procedure
for protesting the City budget under Section 384.19 of the Code of Iowa, in the
form prescribed by the Director of the Department of Management, shall be
included in the notice.  Proof of publication of the notice under
this subsection must be filed with the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[3])
   7.   Copies of Budget on File. Not less than 20 days before the date that
the budget must be certified to the County Auditor and not less than 10 days
before the public hearing, the Clerk shall make available a sufficient number
of copies of the detailed budget to meet the requests of taxpayers and
organizations and have them available for distribution at the offices of the
Mayor and City Clerk and have a copy posted at one of the places designated for
the posting of notices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[2])
   8.   Adoption and Certification. After the hearing, the Council shall adopt,
by resolution, a budget for at least the next fiscal year and the Clerk shall
certify the necessary tax levy for the next fiscal year to the County Auditor
and the County Board of Supervisors. The tax levy certified may be less than,
but not more than, the amount estimated in the proposed budget submitted at the
final hearing, unless an additional tax levy is approved at a City election.
Two copies each of the detailed budget as adopted and of the tax certificate
must be transmitted to the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[5])
(Section 7.05 – Ord. 188 – Oct. 23 Supp.)
7.06 BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
   A City budget finally adopted for the following fiscal year becomes
effective July 1 and constitutes the City appropriation for each program and
purpose specified therein until amended as provided by this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.18)
   1.   Program Increase. Any increase in the amount appropriated to a program
must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as the
original budget.
(IAC, 545-2.2 [384, 388])
   2.   Program Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one program to
another must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as
the original budget.
(IAC, 545-2.3 [384, 388])
   3.   Activity Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one activity to
another activity within a program must be approved by resolution of the
Council.
(IAC, 545-2.4 [384, 388])
   4.   Administrative Transfers. The finance officer shall have the authority
to adjust, by transfer or otherwise, the appropriations allocated within a
specific activity without prior Council approval.
(IAC, 545-2.4 [384, 388])
7.07 ACCOUNTING.
   The accounting records of the City shall consist of not less than the
following:
   1.   Books of Original Entry. There shall be established and maintained
books of original entry to provide a chronological record of cash received and
disbursed.
   2.   General Ledger. There shall be established and maintained a general
ledger controlling all cash transactions, budgetary accounts and for recording
unappropriated surpluses.
   3.   Checks. Checks shall be prenumbered and signed by the Clerk following
Council approval, except as provided by Subsection 5 hereof.
   4.   Budget Accounts. There shall be established such individual accounts to
record receipts by source and expenditures by program and activity as will
provide adequate information and control for budgeting purposes as planned and
approved by the Council. Each individual account shall be maintained within its
proper fund and so kept that receipts can be immediately and directly compared
with revenue estimates and expenditures can be related to the authorizing
appropriation. No expenditure shall be posted except to the appropriation for
the function and purpose for which the expense was incurred.
   5.   Immediate Payment Authorized. The Council may by resolution authorize
the Clerk to issue checks for immediate payment of amounts due, which if not
paid promptly would result in loss of discount, penalty for late payment or
additional interest cost. Any such payments made shall be reported to the
Council for review and approval with and in the same manner as other claims at
the next meeting following such payment. The resolution authorizing immediate
payment shall specify the type of payment so authorized and may include but is
not limited to payment of utility bills, contractual obligations, payroll and
bond principal and interest.
   6.   Utilities. The finance officer shall perform and be responsible for
accounting functions of the municipally owned utilities.
7.08 FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   The finance officer shall prepare and file the following financial reports:
   1.   Monthly Reports. There shall be submitted to the Council each month a
report showing the activity and status of each fund, program, sub-program, and
activity for the preceding month.
   2.   Annual Report. Not later than December 1 of each year there shall be
published an annual report containing a summary for the preceding fiscal year
of all collections and receipts, all accounts due the City, and all
expenditures, the current public debt of the City, and the legal debt limit of
the City for the current fiscal year. The Annual Financial Report shall be
prepared on forms and pursuant to instructions prescribed by the Auditor of
State. Beginning with the Annual Financial Report published by December 1,
2025, each report shall include a list of bonds, notes, or other obligations
issued by the City during the most recently completed fiscal year, and the
applicable lists for other fiscal years beginning on or after July 1, 2024, for
which obligations remain unpaid, payable from any source, including the amount
of the issuance, the project or purpose of the issuance, whether the issuance
was approved at election, eligible to be subject to a petition for an election,
or was exempt from approval at election as the result of statutory exclusions
based on population of the City or amount of the issuance, and identification
of issuances from the fiscal year or prior fiscal years related to the same
project or purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.22)
(Section 7.08 – Ord. 188 – Oct. 23 Supp.)
CHAPTER 9
DEBT SETOFF POLICY AND PROCEDURES
 
                                                                                 9.03
                                                                                 Procedure for
                                                                                 Certification
9.01 Purpose                                                                     to the Iowa
                                                                                 Department of
                                                                                 Revenue for
                                                                                 Setoff
9.02 Debts Subject to Setoff Constituting “Qualifying Debt” Pursuant to Iowa
Code 421.65
 
9.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and procedures pursuant
to Iowa Code 421,65, authorizing the City to invoke the setoff provisions
contained therein for debts owing the City and for which the City has afforded
the debtor the opportunity to contest the debt.
9.02 DEBTS SUBJECT TO SETOFF CONSTITUTING “QUALIFYING DEBT” PURSUANT TO IOWA
CODE 421.65.
   All debts or charges authorized herein by the City of Pierson Code or
otherwise set by resolution approved by the Pierson City Council shall be
deemed “qualifying debts” subject to the provisions of Iowa Code 421.65, for
which the City shall provide those procedures as set out herein Chapter 9 of
the City Code. Such “qualifying debts” include, but are not limited to the
following:
   1.   Past-due utility bills – water, sewer, stormwater, garbage service;
   2.   Unreturned (overdue) or damaged library materials/equipment;
   3.   Past-due parking tickets;
   4.   Past-due pet license;
   5.   Past-due sidewalk repair/replacement costs;
   6.   Past due sidewalk snow/ice removal invoice;
   7.   Past-due mowing invoice;
   8.   Past-due nuisance abatement invoice;
   9.   Past-due animal impound fee invoice;
   10.   Past-due connection fees, permit fees, private water lines, curb box
(shut off), water meters;
   11.   Past-due false alarm fees;
   12.   Past-due rental license/rental inspection fees;
   13.   Past-due subdivision/planning fees including engineering fees incurred
on behalf of developer;
   14.   Any debt which is in the form of a liquidated sum due, owing, and
payable to the Clerk of the District Court; and
   15.   Any other liquidated sum certain, owing, and payable to the City of
Pierson, Iowa, with respect to which the City has afforded the debtor notice
provided herein.
9.03 PROCEDURE FOR CERTIFICATION TO THE IOWA DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE FOR SETOFF.
   With respect to any debt herein, the City shall provide the debtor fifteen
(15) days advance written notice to the debtor’s last-known address, affording
the debtor a period of fifteen (15) days within which to protest or appeal the
delinquency to the City Clerk for the City. If the delinquency is upheld by a
committee consisting of the Mayor, City Clerk, and a Council member, or the
debtor has not paid the debt within fifteen (15) of the date of the notice, the
City may certify the delinquency to the Iowa Department of Revenue for purposes
of collection pursuant to Iowa Code 421.65.
(Ch. 9 – Ord. 189 – Oct. 23 Supp.)
CHAPTER 15
MAYOR
 
15.01 Term of Office    15.04 Compensation
15.02 Powers and Duties 15.05 Voting
15.03 Appointments
 
15.01 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Mayor is elected for a term of two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
15.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Mayor are as follows:
      16.   Chief Executive Officer. Act as the chief executive officer of the
City and presiding officer of the Council, supervise all departments of the
City, give direction to department heads concerning the functions of the
departments, and have the power to examine all functions of the municipal
departments, their records and to call for special reports from department
heads at any time.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
   17.   Proclamation of Emergency. Have authority to take command of the
police and govern the City by proclamation, upon making a determination that a
time of emergency or public danger exists. Within the City limits, the Mayor
has all the powers conferred upon the Sheriff to suppress disorders.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[2])
   18.   Special Meetings. Call special meetings of the Council when the Mayor
deems such meetings necessary to the interests of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
   19.   Mayor’s Veto. Sign, veto, or take no action on an ordinance,
amendment, or resolution passed by the Council. The Mayor may veto an
ordinance, amendment, or resolution within fourteen days after passage. The
Mayor shall explain the reasons for the veto in a written message to the
Council at the time of the veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.5 and 380.6[2])
   20.   Reports to Council. Make such oral or written reports to the Council
as required. These reports shall concern municipal affairs generally, the
municipal departments, and recommendations suitable for Council action.
   21.   Negotiations. Represent the City in all negotiations properly entered
into in accordance with law or ordinance. The Mayor shall not represent the
City where this duty is specifically delegated to another officer by law,
ordinance, or Council direction.
   22.   Contracts. Whenever authorized by the Council, sign contracts on
behalf of the City.
   23.   Professional Services. Upon order of the Council, secure for the City
such specialized and professional services not already available to the City.
In executing the order of the Council, the Mayor shall act in accordance with
the Code of Ordinances and the laws of the State.
   24.   Licenses and Permits. Sign all licenses and permits which have been
granted by the Council, except those designated by law or ordinance to be
issued by another municipal officer.
   25.   Nuisances. Issue written order for removal, at public expense, any
nuisance for which no person can be found responsible and liable.
   26.   Absentee Officer. Make appropriate provision that duties of any
absentee officer be carried on during such absence.
15.03 APPOINTMENTS.
   The Mayor shall appoint the following officials:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
   1.   Mayor Pro Tem
15.04 COMPENSATION.  
   The salary of the Mayor is one hundred dollars ($100.00) per meeting.† 3  2
(Ord. 184 – May 23 Supp.)
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Adopted by Ordinance No. 184 on May 10, 2023, with an
3 effective date of January 1, 2024. Previous rate was $50.00 for each meeting
  attended.
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Adopted by Ordinance No. 184 on May 10, 2023, with an
2 effective date of January 1, 2024. Previous rate was $50.00 for each meeting
  attended.
15.05 VOTING.
   The Mayor is not a member of the Council and shall not vote as a member of
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
CHAPTER 16
MAYOR PRO TEM
 
16.01 Vice President of Council 16.03 Voting Rights
16.02 Powers and Duties         16.04 Compensation
 
16.01 VICE PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
   The Mayor shall appoint a member of the Council as Mayor Pro Tem, who shall
serve as vice president of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Except for the limitations otherwise provided herein, the Mayor Pro Tem
shall perform the duties of the Mayor in cases of absence or inability of the
Mayor to perform such duties. In the exercise of the duties of the office the
Mayor Pro Tem shall not have power to appoint, employ, or discharge from
employment officers or employees that the Mayor has the power to appoint,
employ, or discharge without the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.03 VOTING RIGHTS.
   The Mayor Pro Tem shall have the right to vote as a member of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.04 COMPENSATION.
   If the Mayor Pro Tem performs the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor’s
absence or disability for a continuous period of fifteen (15) days or more, the
Mayor Pro Tem may be paid for that period the compensation as determined by the
Council, based upon the Mayor Pro Tem’s performance of the Mayor’s duties and
upon the compensation of the Mayor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 17
CITY COUNCIL
 
17.01 Number and Term of Council 17.04 Council Meetings
17.02 Powers and Duties          17.05 Appointments
17.03 Exercise of Power          17.06 Compensation
 
17.01 NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
   The Council consists of five Council Members elected at large for
overlapping terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4 & 376.2)
17.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Council include, but are not limited to the
following:
   1.   General. All powers of the City are vested in the Council except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
   2.   Fiscal Authority. The Council shall apportion and appropriate all
funds, and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls, and claims, and order
payment thereof. It shall make all assessments for the cost of street
improvements, sidewalks, sewers, and other work, improvement or repairs which
may be specially assessed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1], 384.16 & 384.38 [1])
   3.   Public Improvements. The Council shall make all orders for the
construction of any improvements, bridges, or buildings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
   4.   Contracts. The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts. No contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the City unless
approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 26.10)
   5.   Employees. The Council shall authorize, by resolution, the number,
duties, term of office, and compensation of employees or officers not otherwise
provided for by State law or the Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   6.   Setting Compensation for Elected Officers. By ordinance, the Council
shall prescribe the compensation of the Mayor, Council members, and other
elected City officers, but a change in the compensation of the Mayor does not
become effective during the term in which the change is adopted, and the
Council shall not adopt such an ordinance changing the compensation of any
elected officer during the months of November and December in the year of a
regular City election. A change in the compensation of Council members becomes
effective for all Council members at the beginning of the term of the Council
members elected at the election next following the change in compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
17.03 EXERCISE OF POWER.
   The Council shall exercise a power only by the passage of a motion, a
resolution, an amendment, or an ordinance in the following manner:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[1])
   1.   Action by Council. Passage of an ordinance, amendment, or resolution
requires a majority vote of all of the members of the Council. Passage of a
motion requires a majority vote of a quorum of the Council. A resolution must
be passed to spend public funds in excess of $100,000.00 on a public
improvement project, or to accept public improvements and facilities upon their
completion. Each Council member’s vote on a measure must be recorded. A measure
which fails to receive sufficient votes for passage shall be considered
defeated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.4)
   2.   Overriding Mayor’s Veto. Within 30 days after the Mayor’s veto, the
Council may pass the measure again by a vote of not less than two-thirds of all
of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
   3.   Measures Become Effective. Measures passed by the Council become
effective in one of the following ways:
      A.   An ordinance or amendment signed by the Mayor becomes effective when
the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a subsequent
effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1a])
      B.   A resolution signed by the Mayor becomes effective immediately upon
signing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1b])
      C.   A motion becomes effective immediately upon passage of the motion by
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1c])
      D.   If the Mayor vetoes an ordinance, amendment, or resolution and the
Council repasses the measure after the Mayor’s veto, a resolution becomes
effective immediately upon repassage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes a
law when the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a
subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
      E.   If the Mayor takes no action on an ordinance, amendment, or
resolution, a resolution becomes effective 14 days after the date of passage,
and an ordinance or amendment becomes law when the ordinance or a summary of
the ordinance is published, but not sooner than 14 days after the date of
passage, unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or
amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[3])
   “All of the members of the Council” refers to all of the seats of the
Council including a vacant seat and a seat where the member is absent, but does
not include a seat where the Council member declines to vote by reason of a
conflict of interest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.1[a])
17.04 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   Procedures for giving notice of meetings of the Council and other provisions
regarding the conduct of Council meetings are contained in Section
5.06 of this Code of Ordinances. Additional particulars relating to Council
meetings are the following:
   1.   Regular Meetings. The time and place of the regular meetings of the
Council shall be fixed by resolution of the Council.
   2.   Special Meetings. Special meetings shall be held upon call of the Mayor
or upon the request of a majority of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
   3.   Quorum. A majority of all Council members is a quorum.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[1])
   4.   Rules of Procedure. The Council shall determine its own rules and
maintain records of its proceedings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
17.05 APPOINTMENTS.
   The Council shall appoint the following officials and prescribe their
powers, duties, compensation, and term of office:
   1.   City Clerk
   2.   City Attorney
17.06 COMPENSATION.
   The salary of each Council member is fifty dollars ($50.00) per meeting.† 4
 
(Ord. 185 – May 23 Supp.)
 
Notes
4 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Adopted by Ordinance 185 on May 10, 2023, with an effective date
  of January 1, 2024. Previous rate was $25.00 for each meeting attended.
CHAPTER 18
CITY CLERK
 
18.01 Appointment and Compensation 18.08 Records
18.02 Powers and Duties: General   18.09 Attendance at Meetings
18.03 Publication of Minutes       18.10 Issue Licenses and Permits
18.04 Recording Measures           18.11 Notify Appointees
18.05 Other Publications           18.12 Elections
18.06 Authentication               18.13 City Seal
18.07 Certify Measures
 
 
18.01 APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
   The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Clerk to serve for a term
of one year, and shall establish by resolution the Clerk’s compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3])
18.02 POWERS AND DUTIES: GENERAL.
   The Clerk, or in the Clerk’s absence or inability to act, the Deputy Clerk,
has the powers and duties as provided in this chapter, this Code of Ordinances
and the law.
18.03 PUBLICATION OF MINUTES.
   Within 15 days following a regular or special meeting, the Clerk shall cause
the minutes of the proceedings thereof to be published. Such publication shall
include a list of all claims allowed and a summary of all receipts and shall
show the gross amount of the claims.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[6])
18.04 RECORDING MEASURES.
   The Clerk shall promptly record each measure considered by the Council and
record a statement with the measure, where applicable, indicating whether the
Mayor signed, vetoed or took no action on the measure, and whether the measure
was repassed after the Mayor’s veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[1 & 2])
18.05 OTHER PUBLICATIONS.
   The Clerk shall cause to be published all ordinances, enactments,
proceedings, and official notices requiring publication as follows:
   1.   Time. If notice of an election, hearing, or other official action is
required by the Code of Ordinances or law, the notice must be published at
least once, not less than four or more than 20 days before the date of the
election, hearing or other action, unless otherwise provided by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3[1])
   2.   Manner of Publication. A publication required by this Code of
Ordinances or law must be in a newspaper published at least once weekly and
having general circulation in the City, except that ordinances and amendments
may be published by posting in the following places:
   Post Office
   Community Building
   City Hall
   The Clerk is hereby directed to post promptly such ordinances and
amendments, and to leave them so posted for not less than 10 days after the
first date of posting. Unauthorized removal of the posted ordinance or
amendment prior to the completion of the ten days shall not affect the validity
of said ordinance or amendment. The Clerk shall note the first date of such
posting on the official copy of the ordinance and in the official ordinance
book immediately following the ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3[2])
18.06 AUTHENTICATION.
   The Clerk shall authenticate all measures except motions with the Clerk’s
signature, certifying the time and manner of publication when required.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[4])
18.07 CERTIFY MEASURES.
   The Clerk shall certify all measures establishing any zoning district,
building lines, or fire limits and a plat showing the district, lines, or
limits to the recorder of the County containing the affected parts of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.11)
18.08 RECORDS.
   The Clerk shall maintain the specified City records in the following manner:
   1.   Ordinances and Codes. Maintain copies of all effective City ordinances
and codes for public use.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[5])
   2.   Custody. Have custody and be responsible for the safekeeping of all
writings or documents in which the City is a party in interest unless otherwise
specifically directed by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   3.   Maintenance. Maintain all City records and documents, or accurate
reproductions, for at least five (5) years except that ordinances, resolutions,
Council proceedings, records, and documents, or accurate reproductions,
relating to the issuance, cancellation, transfer, redemption, or replacement of
public bonds or obligations shall be kept for at least eleven (11) years
following the final maturity of the bonds or obligations. Ordinances,
resolutions, Council proceedings, records, and documents, or accurate
reproductions, relating to real property transactions shall be maintained
permanently.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3 & 5])
   4.   Provide Copy. Furnish upon request to any municipal officer a copy of
any record, paper or public document under the Clerk’s control when it may be
necessary to such officer in the discharge of such officer’s duty; furnish a
copy to any citizen when requested upon payment of the fee set by Council
resolution; under the direction of the Mayor or other authorized officer, affix
the seal of the City to those public documents or instruments which by
ordinance and Code of Ordinances are required to be attested by the affixing of
the seal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4 & 5] and 380.7[5])
   5.   Filing of Communications. Keep and file all communications and
petitions directed to the Council or to the City generally. The Clerk shall
endorse thereon the action of the Council taken upon matters considered in such
communications and petitions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.09 ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
   The Clerk shall attend all regular and special Council meetings and, at the
direction of the Council, the Clerk shall attend meetings of committees,
boards, and commissions. The Clerk shall record and preserve a correct record
of the proceedings of such meetings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.10 ISSUE LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   The Clerk shall issue or revoke licenses and permits when authorized by this
Code of Ordinances, and keep a record of licenses and permits issued which
shall show date of issuance, license or permit number, official receipt number,
name of person to whom issued, term of license or permit and purpose for which
issued.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.11 NOTIFY APPOINTEES.
   The Clerk shall inform all persons appointed by the Mayor or Council to
offices in the City government of their positions and the time at which they
shall assume the duties of their offices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.12 ELECTIONS.
   The Clerk shall perform the duties relating to elections in accordance with
Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa.
18.13 CITY SEAL.
   The City seal is in the custody of the Clerk and shall be attached by the
Clerk to all transcripts, orders, and certificates which it may be necessary or
proper to authenticate.
CHAPTER 19
CITY TREASURER
 
19.01 Appointment  19.03 Duties of Treasurer
19.02 Compensation
 
19.01 APPOINTMENT.
   The City Clerk is the Treasurer and performs all functions required of the
position of Treasurer.
19.02 COMPENSATION.
   The Clerk receives no additional compensation for performing the duties of
the Treasurer.
19.03 DUTIES OF TREASURER.
   The duties of the Treasurer are as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Custody of Funds. Be responsible for the safe custody of all funds of
the City in the manner provided by law, and Council direction.
   2.   Record of Fund. Keep the record of each fund separate.
   3.   Record Receipts. Keep an accurate record of all money or securities
received by the Treasurer on behalf of the City and specify the date, from
whom, and for what purpose received.
   4.   Record Disbursements. Keep an accurate account of all disbursements,
money, or property, specifying date, to whom, and from what fund paid.
   5.   Special Assessments. Keep a separate account of all money received by
the Treasurer from special assessments.
   6.   Deposit Funds. Upon receipt of moneys to be held in the Treasurer’s
custody and belonging to the City, deposit the same in depositories selected by
the Council.
   7.   Reconciliation. Reconcile depository statements with the Treasurer’s
books and certify monthly to the Council the balance of cash and investments of
each fund and amounts received and disbursed.
   8.   Debt Service. Keep a register of all bonds outstanding and record all
payments of interest and principal.
   9.   Other Duties. Perform such other duties as specified by the Council by
resolution or ordinance.
CHAPTER 20
CITY ATTORNEY
 
20.01 Appointment and Compensation 20.05 Review and Comment
20.02 Attorney for City            20.06 Provide Legal Opinion
20.03 Power of Attorney            20.07 Attendance at Council Meetings
20.04 Ordinance Preparation        20.08 Prepare Documents
 
20.01 APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
   The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Attorney to serve at the
discretion of the Council and shall establish by resolution the City Attorney’s
compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.02 ATTORNEY FOR CITY.
   The City Attorney shall act as attorney for the City in all matters
affecting the City’s interest and appear on behalf of the City before any
court, tribunal, commission, or board. The City Attorney shall prosecute or
defend all actions and proceedings when so requested by the Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.03 POWER OF ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney shall sign the name of the City to all appeal bonds and to
all other bonds or papers of any kind that may be essential to the prosecution
of any cause in court, and when so signed the City shall be bound upon the
same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.04 ORDINANCE PREPARATION.
   The City Attorney shall prepare those ordinances which the Council may
desire and direct to be prepared and report to the Council upon all such
ordinances before their final passage by the Council and publication.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.05 REVIEW AND COMMENT.
   The City Attorney shall, upon request, make a report to the Council and
interested department heads, giving an opinion on all contracts, documents,
resolutions, or ordinances submitted to or coming under the City Attorney’s
notice.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.06 PROVIDE LEGAL OPINION.
   The City Attorney shall give advice or a written legal opinion on City
contracts and all questions of law relating to City matters submitted by the
Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.07 ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The City Attorney shall attend meetings of the Council at the request of the
Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.08 PREPARE DOCUMENTS.
   The City Attorney shall, upon request, formulate drafts for contracts, forms
and other writings which may be required for the use of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
CHAPTER 30
POLICE DEPARTMENT
 
30.01 Department Established       30.07 Police Chief: Duties
30.02 Organization                 30.08 Departmental Rules
30.03 Peace Officer Qualifications 30.09 Summoning Aid
30.04 Required Training            30.10 Taking Weapons
30.05 Compensation                 30.11 Contract Law Enforcement
30.06 Police Chief Appointed
 
30.01 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   The police department of the City is established to provide for the
preservation of peace and enforcement of law and ordinances within the
corporate limits of the City.
30.02 ORGANIZATION.
   The department consists of the Police Chief and such other law enforcement
officers and personnel, whether full or part time, as may be authorized by the
Council.
30.03 PEACE OFFICER QUALIFICATIONS.
   In no case shall any person be selected or appointed as a law enforcement
officer unless such person meets the minimum qualification standards
established by the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11)
30.04 REQUIRED TRAINING.
   All peace officers shall have received the minimum training required by law
at an approved law enforcement training school within one year of employment.
Peace officers shall also meet the minimum in-service training as required by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11[2])
(IAC, 501-3 and 501-8)
30.05 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the department are designated by rank and receive such
compensation as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
30.06 POLICE CHIEF APPOINTED.
   The Mayor shall appoint and dismiss the Police Chief subject to the consent
of a majority of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
30.07 POLICE CHIEF: DUTIES.
   The Police Chief has the following powers and duties subject to the approval
of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   General. Perform all duties required of the Police Chief by law or
ordinance.
   2.   Enforce Laws. Enforce all laws, ordinances, and regulations and bring
all persons committing any offense before the proper court.
   3.   Writs. Execute and return all writs and other processes directed to the
Police Chief.
   4.   
Accident Reports. Report all motor vehicle accidents investigated to the State
Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.266)
   5.   Prisoners. Be responsible for the custody of prisoners, including
conveyance to detention facilities as may be required.
   6.   Assist Officials. When requested, provide aid to other City officers,
boards, and commissions in the execution of their official duties.
   7.   Investigations. Provide for such investigation as may be necessary for
the prosecution of any person alleged to have violated any law or ordinance.
   8.   Record of Arrests. Keep a record of all arrests made in the City by
showing whether said arrests were made under provisions of State law or City
ordinance, the offense charged, who made the arrest and the disposition of the
charge.
   9.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report
as well as such other reports as may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
   10.   Command. Be in command of all officers appointed for police work and
be responsible for the care, maintenance, and use of all vehicles, equipment,
and materials of the department.
30.08 DEPARTMENTAL RULES.
   The Police Chief shall establish such rules, not in conflict with the Code
of Ordinances, and subject to the approval of the Council, as may be necessary
for the operation of the department.
30.09 SUMMONING AID.
   Any peace officer making a legal arrest may orally summon as many persons as
the officer reasonably finds necessary to aid the officer in making the arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.17)
30.10 TAKING WEAPONS.
   Any person who makes an arrest may take from the person arrested all items
which are capable of causing bodily harm which the arrested person may have
within such person’s control to be disposed of according to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.18)
30.11 CONTRACT LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   In lieu of the appointment of a police chief by the Mayor as provided by
Section
30.06, the Council may contract with the County Sheriff or any other qualified
lawful entity to provide law enforcement services within the City and in such
event the Sheriff or such other entity shall have and exercise the powers and
duties of the Police Chief as provided herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 28E.30)
CHAPTER 35
FIRE DEPARTMENT
35.01 Establishment and Purpose 35.09 Constitution
35.02 Organization              35.10 Accidental Injury Insurance
35.03 Approved by Council       35.11 Liability Insurance
35.04 Training                  35.12 Calls Outside City
35.05 Compensation              35.13 Mutual Aid
35.06 Election of Officers      35.14 Authority to Cite Violations
35.07 Duties of Fire Chief      35.15 Emergency Ambulance Service
35.08 Obedience to Fire Chief
 
 
35.01 ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
   A volunteer fire department is hereby established to prevent and extinguish
fires and to protect lives and property against fires, to promote fire
prevention and fire safety, and to answer all emergency calls for which there
is no other established agency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.16)
35.02 ORGANIZATION.
   The department consists of the Fire Chief and such other officers and
personnel as may be authorized by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
35.03 APPROVED BY COUNCIL.
   No person having otherwise qualified shall be appointed to the department
until such appointment is submitted to and approved by a majority of the
Council members.
35.04 TRAINING.
   All members of the department shall meet the minimum training standards
established by the State Fire Marshal and attend and actively participate in
regular or special training drills or programs as directed by the Fire Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100B.2[4])
35.05 COMPENSATION.
Members of the department shall be designated by rank and receive such
compensation as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
35.06 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   The department shall elect a Fire Chief and such other officers as its
constitution and bylaws may provide, but the election of Fire Chief shall be
subject to the approval of the Council. In case of absence of the Fire Chief,
the officer next in rank shall be in charge and have and exercise all the
powers of Fire Chief.
35.07 DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall perform all duties required of the Fire Chief by law or
ordinance, including but not limited to the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Enforce Laws. Enforce ordinances and laws regulating fire prevention
and the investigation of the cause, origin, and circumstances of fires.
   2.   Technical Assistance. Upon request, give advice concerning private fire
alarm systems, fire extinguishing equipment, fire escapes and exits, and
development of fire emergency plans.
   3.   Authority at Fires. When in charge of a fire scene, direct an operation
as necessary to extinguish or control a fire, perform a rescue operation,
investigate the existence of a suspected or reported fire, gas leak, or other
hazardous condition, or take any other action deemed necessary in the
reasonable performance of the department’s duties.
   4.   Additionally, the Fire Chief, or his/her designee, at his/her
discretion, may deem a fire/fire scene unsafe, a nuisance, and/or a safety
issue, and may order the fire/fire scene to be extinguished immediately.
   5.   (Subsection 3 – Ord. 193 – Dec. 23 Supp.)
   6.   Control of Scenes. Prohibit an individual, vehicle, or vessel from
approaching a fire scene and remove from the scene any object, vehicle, vessel,
or individual that may impede or interfere with the operation of the Fire
Department.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
   7.   Authority to Barricade. When in charge of a fire scene, place or erect
ropes, guards, barricades or other obstructions across a street, alley, right-
of-way, or private property near the location of the fire or emergency so as to
prevent accidents or interference with the firefighting efforts of the Fire
Department, to control the scene until any required investigation is complete,
or to preserve evidence related to the fire or other emergency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.3)
   8.   Command. Be charged with the duty of maintaining the efficiency,
discipline, and control of the Fire Department. The members of the Fire
Department shall, at all times, be subject to the direction of the Fire Chief.
   9.   Property. Exercise and have full control over the disposition of all
fire apparatus, tools, equipment, and other property used by or belonging to
the Fire Department.
   10.   Notification. Whenever death, serious bodily injury, or property
damage in excess of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) has occurred as a
result of a fire, or if arson is suspected, notify the State Fire Marshal’s
Division immediately. For all other fires causing an estimated damage of fifty
dollars ($50.00) or more or emergency responses by the Fire Department, file a
report with the Fire Marshal’s Division within ten (10) days following the end
of the month. The report shall indicate all fire incidents occurring and state
the name of the owners and occupants of the property at the time of the fire,
the value of the property, the estimated total loss to the property, origin of
the fire as determined by investigation, and other facts, statistics, and
circumstances concerning the fire incidents.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.2 and 100.3)
   11.   Right of Entry. Have the right, during reasonable hours, to enter any
building or premises within the Fire Chief’s jurisdiction for the purpose of
making such investigation or inspection which under law or ordinance may be
necessary to be made and is reasonably necessary to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.12)
   12.   Recommendation. Make such recommendations to owners, occupants,
caretakers or managers of buildings necessary to eliminate fire hazards.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.13)
   13.   Assist State Fire Marshal. At the request of the State Fire Marshal,
and as provided by law, aid said marshal in the performance of duties by
investigating, preventing and reporting data pertaining to fires.
   14.   Records. Cause to be kept records of the Fire Department personnel,
firefighting equipment, depreciation of all equipment and apparatus, the number
of responses to alarms, their cause and location, and an analysis of losses by
value, type, and location of buildings.
   15.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report
of the status and activities of the department as well as such other reports as
may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
35.08 OBEDIENCE TO FIRE CHIEF.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of the Fire Chief or his/her designee, including any lawful orders
given under Section 35 of the Pierson City Code.
(Ord. 193 – Dec. 23 Supp.)
35.09 CONSTITUTION.
   The department shall adopt a constitution and bylaws as they deem calculated
to accomplish the object contemplated, and such constitution and bylaws and any
change or amendment to such constitution and bylaws before being effective,
must be approved by the Council.
35.10 ACCIDENTAL INJURY INSURANCE.
   The Council shall contract to insure the City against liability for worker’s
compensation and against statutory liability for the costs of hospitalization,
nursing, and medical attention for volunteer firefighters injured in the
performance of their duties as firefighters whether within or outside the
corporate limits of the City. All volunteer firefighters shall be covered by
the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 85.2, 85.61, and Sec. 410.18)
35.11 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The Council shall contract to insure against liability of the City or
members of the department for injuries, death or property damage arising out of
and resulting from the performance of departmental duties within or outside the
corporate limits of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 670.2 and 517A.1)
35.12 CALLS OUTSIDE CITY.
   The department shall answer calls to fires and other emergencies outside the
City limits if the Fire Chief determines that such emergency exists and that
such action will not endanger persons and property within the City limits.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4 [2 and 3])
35.13 MUTUAL AID.
   Subject to approval by resolution of the Council, the department may enter
into mutual aid agreements with other legally constituted fire departments.
Copies of any such agreements shall be filed with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4 [2 and 3])
35.14 AUTHORITY TO CITE VIOLATIONS.
   Fire officials acting under the authority of Chapter 100 of the Code of Iowa
may issue citations in accordance to Chapter 805 of the Code of Iowa, for
violations of State and/or local fire safety regulations.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.41)
35.15 EMERGENCY AMBULANCE SERVICE.
   The department is authorized to provide emergency ambulance or rescue
services, and the accidental injury and liability insurance provided for herein
shall include such operation.
   1.   Fees for the use of the ambulance and rescue service and reasonable
related emergency services furnished within or outside the City shall be
adequate to cover all the operating costs of the service.
   2.   The Clerk or contracted billing service shall calculate and render
bills for ambulance and rescue services and all reasonably related services
rendered.
   3.   All ambulance and rescue service fees and charges for reasonably
related emergency services shall be due and payable upon presentation of a
statement for said fees and charges to the user and/or recipient of the
service, and shall be paid to the Clerk. With respect to any debt herein, the
City shall provide the debtor fifteen (15) days advance written notice to the
debtor’s last-known address, affording the debtor a period of fifteen (15) days
within which to protest or appeal the delinquency to the City Clerk. If the
delinquency is upheld by the City Clerk, or the debtor has not paid the debt
within fifteen (15) of the date of the notice, the City may certify the
delinquency to the Iowa Department of Revenue for purposes of collection
pursuant to Iowa Code 421.65.
(Section 35.15 – Ord. 193 – Dec. 23 Supp)
CHAPTER 45
PUBLIC OFFENSES
45.01 Assault                                            45.15 Antenna and
                                                         Radio Wires
45.02 Harassment                                         45.16 Barbed Wire and
                                                         Electric Fences
45.03 Disorderly Conduct                                 45.17 Discharging
                                                         Weapons
45.04 Unlawful Assembly                                  45.18 Throwing and
                                                         Shooting
45.05 Failure to Disperse                                45.19 Criminal
                                                         Mischief
                                                         45.20 Defacing
45.06 Urinating and Defecating                           Proclamations or
                                                         Notices
45.07 Distributing Dangerous Substances                  45.21 Unauthorized
                                                         Entry
45.08 False Reports to or Communications with Public     45.22 Trespassing
Safety Entities
45.09 Providing False Identification Information         45.23 Fraud
45.10 Refusing to Assist Officer                         45.24 Theft
45.11 Harassment of Public Officers and Employees        45.25 Fireworks
45.12 Interference with Official Acts                    45.26 Amusement
                                                         Devices
45.13 Removal of an Officer’s Communication or Control 45.27 Drug
Device                                                   Paraphernalia
45.14 Abandoned or Unattended Refrigerators              45.28 Other Public
                                                         Property Offenses
 
45.01 ASSAULT.
   No person shall, without justification, commit any of the following:
   1.   Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to cause pain or injury to
another or that is intended to result in physical contact that will be
insulting or offensive to another, coupled with the apparent ability to execute
the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[1])
   2.   Threat of Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to place another in
fear of immediate physical contact which will be painful, injurious, insulting,
or offensive, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[2])
   An act described in subsections 1 and 2 shall not be an assault under the
following circumstances: (i) if the person doing any of the enumerated acts,
and such other person, are voluntary participants in a sport, social or other
activity, not in itself criminal, and such act is a reasonably foreseeable
incident of such sport or activity, and does not create an unreasonable risk of
serious injury or breach of the peace; (ii) if the person doing any of the
enumerated acts is employed by a school district or accredited nonpublic
school, or is an area education agency staff member who provides services to a
school or school district, and intervenes in a fight or physical struggle or
other disruptive situation that takes place in the presence of the employee or
staff member performing employment duties in a school building, on school
grounds, or at an official school function, regardless of the location, whether
the fight or physical struggle or other disruptive situation is between
students or other individuals, if the degree and the force of the intervention
is reasonably necessary to restore order and to protect the safety of those
assembled.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1)
45.02 HARASSMENT.
   No person shall commit harassment.
   1.   A person commits harassment when, with intent to intimidate, annoy or
alarm another person, the person does any of the following:
      A.   Communicates with another by telephone, telegraph, writing or via
electronic communication without legitimate purpose and in a manner likely to
cause the other person annoyance or harm.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      B.   Places any simulated explosive or simulated incendiary device in or
near any building, vehicle, airplane, railroad engine or railroad car, or boat
occupied by such other person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      C.   Orders merchandise or services in the name of another, or to be
delivered to another, without such other person’s knowledge or consent.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      D.   Reports or causes to be reported false information to a law
enforcement authority implicating another in some criminal activity, knowing
that the information is false, or reports the alleged occurrence of a criminal
act, knowing the same did not occur.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   2.   A person commits harassment when the person, purposefully and without
legitimate purpose, has personal contact with another person, with the intent
to threaten, intimidate or alarm that other person. As used in this section,
unless the context otherwise requires, “personal contact” means an encounter in
which two or more people are in visual or physical proximity to each other.
“Personal contact” does not require a physical touching or oral communication,
although it may include these types of contacts.
45.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall do any of the following:
   1.   Fighting. Engage in fighting or violent behavior in any public place or
in or near any lawful assembly of persons, provided that participants in
athletic contests may engage in such conduct that is reasonably related to that
sport.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1])
   2.   Noise. Make loud and raucous noise in the vicinity of any residence or
public building which causes unreasonable distress to the occupants thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[2])
   3.   Abusive Language. Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening
gesture that the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a
violent reaction by another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[3])
   4.   Disrupt Lawful Assembly. Without lawful authority or color of
authority, disturb any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by conduct
intended to disrupt the meeting or assembly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[4])
   5.   False Report of Catastrophe. By words or action, initiate or circulate
a report or warning of fire, epidemic, or other catastrophe, knowing such
report to be false or such warning to be baseless.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[5])
   6.   Disrespect of Flag. Knowingly and publicly use the flag of the United
States in such a manner as to show disrespect for the flag as a symbol of the
United States, with the intent or reasonable expectation that such use will
provoke or encourage another to commit trespass or assault. As used in this
subsection:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[6])
      A.   “Deface” means to intentionally mar the external appearance.
      B.   “Defile” means to intentionally make physically unclean.
      C.   “Flag” means a piece of woven cloth or other material designed to be
flown from a pole or mast.
      D.   “Mutilate” means to intentionally cut up or alter so as to make
imperfect.
      E.   “Show disrespect” means to deface, defile, mutilate, or trample.
      F.   “Trample” means to intentionally tread upon or intentionally cause a
machine, vehicle, or animal to tread upon.
   7.   Obstruct Use of Street. Without authority or justification, obstruct
any street, sidewalk, highway, or other public way, with the intent to prevent
or hinder its lawful use by others.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[7])
   8.   Funeral or Memorial Service. Within 1,000 feet of the building or other
location where a funeral or memorial service is being conducted, or within
1,000 feet of a funeral procession or burial:
      A.   Make loud and raucous noise that causes unreasonable distress to the
persons attending the funeral or memorial service or participating in the
funeral procession.
      B.   Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture that the
person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent reaction
by another.
      C.   Disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial service, funeral
procession, or burial by conduct intended to disturb or disrupt the funeral,
memorial service, funeral procession, or burial.
   This subsection applies to conduct within 60 minutes preceding, during, and
within 60 minutes after a funeral, memorial service, funeral procession, or
burial.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5)
45.04 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It is unlawful for three or more persons to assemble together, with them or
any of them acting in a violent manner, and with intent that they or any of
them will commit a public offense. No person shall willingly join in or remain
part of an unlawful assembly, knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe
it is such.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.2)
45.05 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   A peace officer may order the participants in a riot or unlawful assembly or
persons in the immediate vicinity of a riot or unlawful assembly to disperse.
No person within hearing distance of such command shall refuse to obey.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.3)
45.06 URINATING AND DEFECATING.
   It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate onto any sidewalk,
street, alley, or other public way, or onto any public or private building,
including but not limited to the wall, floor, hallway, steps, stairway,
doorway, or window thereof, or onto public or private land.
45.07 DISTRIBUTING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall distribute samples of any drugs or medicine, or any
corrosive, caustic, poisonous or other injurious substance unless the person
delivers such into the hands of a competent person, or otherwise takes
reasonable precautions that the substance will not be taken by children or
animals from the place where the substance is deposited.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.1)
45.08 FALSE REPORTS TO OR COMMUNICATIONS WITH PUBLIC SAFETY ENTITIES.
   No person shall do any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.6)
   1.   Report or cause to be reported false information to a fire department,
a law enforcement authority or other public safety entity, knowing that the
information is false, or report the alleged occurrence of a criminal act
knowing the act did not occur.
   2.   Telephone an emergency 911 communications center, knowing that he or
she is not reporting an emergency or otherwise needing emergency information or
assistance.
   3.   Knowingly provide false information to a law enforcement officer who
enters the information on a citation.
45.09 PROVIDING FALSE IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION.
   No person shall knowingly provide false identification information to anyone
known by the person to be a peace officer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, in the performance of any act that is
within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, emergency
medical care provider, or firefighter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1A)
45.10 REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
   Any person who is requested or ordered by any magistrate or peace officer to
render the magistrate or officer assistance in making or attempting to make an
arrest, or to prevent the commission of any criminal act, shall render
assistance as required. No person shall unreasonably and without lawful cause,
refuse or neglect to render assistance when so requested.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.2)
45.11 HARASSMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   No person shall willfully prevent or attempt to prevent any public officer
or employee from performing the officer’s or employee’s duty.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.4)
45.12 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTS.
   No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct anyone known by the person to
be a peace officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider or firefighter,
whether paid or volunteer, in the performance of any act that is within the
scope of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, jailer, emergency
medical care provider or firefighter, or shall knowingly resist or obstruct the
service or execution by any authorized person of any civil or criminal process
or order of any court. The terms “resist” and “obstruct” as used in this
section do not include verbal harassment unless the verbal harassment is
accompanied by a present ability and apparent intention to execute a verbal
threat physically.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1)
45.13 REMOVAL OF AN OFFICER’S COMMUNICATION OR CONTROL DEVICE.
   No person shall knowingly or intentionally remove or attempt to remove a
communication device or any device used for control from the possession of a
peace officer or correctional officer, when the officer is in the performance
of any act which is within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that
officer and the person knew or should have known the individual to be an
officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.12)
45.14 ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED REFRIGERATORS.
   No person shall abandon or otherwise leave unattended any refrigerator, ice
box, or similar container, with doors that may become locked, outside of
buildings and accessible to children, nor shall any person allow any such
refrigerator, ice box, or similar container, to remain outside of buildings on
premises in the person’s possession or control, abandoned or unattended and so
accessible to children.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.3)
45.15 ANTENNA AND RADIO WIRES.
   It is unlawful for a person to allow antenna wires, antenna supports, radio
wires, or television wires to exist over any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
public way, public ground, or public building without written consent of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
45.16 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
   It is unlawful for a person to use barbed wire or electric fences to enclose
land within the City limits without the written consent of the Council unless
such land consists of 10 acres or more and is used as agricultural land.
45.17 DISCHARGING WEAPONS.
   1.   It is unlawful for a person to discharge rifles, shotguns, revolvers,
pistols, guns, or other firearms of any kind within the City limits except by
written consent of the Council.
   2.   No person shall intentionally discharge a firearm in a reckless manner.
45.18 THROWING AND SHOOTING.
   It is unlawful for a person to throw stones, bricks or missiles of any kind
or to shoot arrows, paintballs, rubber guns, slingshots, air rifles, BB guns or
other dangerous instruments or toys on or into any street, alley, highway,
sidewalk, public way, public ground or public building, without written consent
of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
45.19 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   It is unlawful, for any person who has no right to do so, to intentionally
damage, deface, alter, or destroy property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
45.20 DEFACING PROCLAMATIONS OR NOTICES.
   It is unlawful for a person intentionally to deface, obliterate, tear down,
or destroy in whole or in part, any transcript or extract from or of any law of
the United States or the State, or any proclamation, advertisement or
notification, set up at any place within the City by authority of the law or by
order of any court, during the time for which the same is to remain set up.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
45.21 UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.
   No unauthorized person shall enter or remain in or upon any public building,
premises, or grounds in violation of any notice posted thereon or when said
building, premises, or grounds are closed and not open to the public. When open
to the public, a failure to pay any required admission fee also constitutes an
unauthorized entry.
45.22 TRESPASSING.
   1.   Prohibited. It is unlawful for a person to knowingly trespass upon the
property of another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.8)
   2.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[1])
      A.   “Property” includes any land, dwelling, building, conveyance,
vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure, whether publicly or
privately owned.
      B.   “Public utility” is a public utility as defined in Section 476.1 of
the Code of Iowa or an electric transmission line as provided in Chapter 478 of
the Code of Iowa.
      C.   “Public utility property” means any land, dwelling, building,
conveyance, vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure owned, leased,
or operated by a public utility and that is completely enclosed by a physical
barrier of any kind.
      D.   “Railway corporation” means a corporation, company, or person
owning, leasing, or operating any railroad in whole or in part within this
State.
      E.   “Railway property” means all tangible real and personal property
owned, leased, or operated by a railway corporation, with the exception of any
administrative building or offices of the railway corporation.
      F.   “Trespass” means one or more of the following acts:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2a])
         (1)   Entering upon or in property without the express permission of
the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession with the intent to commit a
public offense or to use, remove therefrom, alter, damage, harass, or place
thereon or therein anything animate or inanimate.
         (2)   Entering or remaining upon or in property without justification
after being notified or requested to abstain from entering or to remove or
vacate therefrom by the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or the
agent or employee of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or by
any peace officer, magistrate, or public employee whose duty it is to supervise
the use or maintenance of the property.
         (3)   Entering upon or in property for the purpose or with the effect
of unduly interfering with the lawful use of the property by others.
         (4)   Being upon or in property and wrongfully using, removing
therefrom, altering, damaging, harassing, or placing thereon or therein
anything animate or inanimate, without the implied or actual permission of the
owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession.
         (5)   Entering or remaining upon or in railway property without lawful
authority or without the consent of the railway corporation which owns, leases,
or operates the railway property. This paragraph does not apply to passage over
a railroad right-of-way, other than a track, railroad roadbed, viaduct, bridge,
trestle, or railroad yard, by an unarmed person if the person has not been
notified or requested to abstain from entering onto the right-of-way or to
vacate the right-of-way and the passage over the right-of-way does not
interfere with the operation of the railroad.
         (6)   Entering or remaining upon or in public utility property without
lawful authority or without the consent of the public utility that owns,
leases, or operates the public utility property. This paragraph does not apply
to passage over public utility right-of-way by a person if the person has not
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering onto the right-of-way or to vacate the right-of-way.
   3.   Specific Exceptions. “Trespass” does not mean either of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2b])
      A.   Entering upon the property of another for the sole purpose of
retrieving personal property which has accidentally or inadvertently been
thrown, fallen, strayed, or blown onto the property of another, provided that
the person retrieving the property takes the most direct and accessible route
to and from the property to be retrieved, quits the property as quickly as is
possible, and does not unduly interfere with the lawful use of the property.
This paragraph does not apply to public utility property where the person has
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering.
      B.   Entering upon the right-of-way of a public road or highway.
45.23 FRAUD.
   It is unlawful for any person to commit a fraudulent practice as defined in
Section 714.8 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.8)
45.24 THEFT.
   It is unlawful for any person to commit theft as defined in Section 714.1 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
45.25 FIREWORKS.
   The sale, use or exploding of fireworks within the City is subject to the
following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.2)
   1.   Definition. The term “fireworks” includes any explosive composition, or
combination of explosive substances, or articles prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or
detonation, and specifically includes blank cartridges, firecrackers,
torpedoes, skyrockets, roman candles, or other fireworks of like construction
and any fireworks containing any explosive or flammable compound, or other
device containing any explosive substance.
   2.   Regulations. It is unlawful for any person to offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, or use or explode any fireworks; provided the City
may, upon application in writing, grant a permit for the display of fireworks
by a City agency, fair associations, amusement parks and other organizations or
groups of individuals approved by City authorities when such fireworks display
will be handled by a competent operator. No permit shall be granted hereunder
unless the operator or sponsoring organization has filed with the City evidence
of insurance in the following amounts:
      A.   Personal Injury:   $250,000.00 per person.
      B.   Property Damage:   $50,000.00
      C.   Total Exposure:   $1,000,000.00
   3.   Exceptions. This section does not prohibit the sale by a resident,
dealer, manufacturer or jobber of such fireworks as are not prohibited; or the
sale of any kind of fireworks if they are to be shipped out of State; or the
sale or use of blank cartridges for a show or theatre, or for signal purposes
in athletic sports or by railroads or trucks for signal purposes, or by a
recognized military organization. This section does not apply to any substance
or composition prepared and sold for medicinal or fumigation purposes.
45.26 AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   The following provisions pertain to electrical or mechanical amusement
devices possessed and used in accordance with Chapter 99B of the Code of Iowa.
(Said devices are allowed only in premises with a liquor control license or
beer permit, as specifically authorized in said Chapter 99B.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 99B.57)
   1.   As used in this section, “registered electrical or mechanical amusement
device” means an electrical or mechanical device required to be registered with
the Iowa Department of Inspection and Appeals, as provided in Section 99B.53 of
the Code of Iowa.
   2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to participate in the
operation of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   3.   It is unlawful for any person owning or leasing a registered electrical
or mechanical amusement device, or an employee of a person owning or leasing a
registered electrical or mechanical amusement device, to knowingly allow a
person under the age of 21 to participate in the operation of a registered
electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   4.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly participate in the operation
of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device with a person under
the age of 21.
45.27 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 124.414)
   1.   As used in this section “drug paraphernalia” means all equipment,
products or materials of any kind used or attempted to be used in combination
with a controlled substance, except those items used in combination with the
lawful use of a controlled substance, to knowingly or intentionally and
primarily do any of the following:
      A.   Manufacture a controlled substance.
      B.   Inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance.
      C.   Test the strength, effectiveness, or purity of a controlled
substance.
      D.   Enhance the effect of a controlled substance. Drug paraphernalia
does not include hypodermic needles or syringes if manufactured, delivered,
sold, or possessed for a lawful purpose.
   2.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally
manufacture, deliver, sell, or possess drug paraphernalia.
45.28 OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES.
   The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other activities or conditions that are also deemed
to be public offenses:
   1.   Chapter 105 – Solid Waste Control and Recycling.
      A.   Section
105.07 – Littering Prohibited
   2.   Chapter 135 – Street Use and Maintenance.
      A.   Section
135.01 – Removal of Warning Devices
      B.   Section
135.02 – Obstructing or Defacing
      C.   Section
135.03 – Placing Debris On
      D.   Section
135.04 – Playing In
      E.   Section
135.05 – Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley
      F.   Section
135.08 – Burning Prohibited
      G.   Section
135.12 – Dumping of Snow
   3.   Chapter 136 – Sidewalk Regulations.
      A.   Section
136.11 – Interference with Sidewalk Improvements
      B.   Section
136.15 – Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
      C.   Section 136.16 – Defacing
      D.   Section
136.17 – Debris on Sidewalks
      E.   Section
136.18 – Merchandise Display
      F.   Section
136.19 – Sales Stands.
CHAPTER 46
MINORS
 
46.01 Curfew Established     46.03 Contributing to Delinquency
46.02 Cigarettes and Tobacco
 
46.01 CURFEW ESTABLISHED.
   1.   Definitions. For use in this section, the following terms are defined:
      A.   “Allow” means either to permit or neglect to prevent with actual or
constructive knowledge. Knowledge will be presumed if the circumstances are
such that a reasonable prudent parent or person should have known the minor was
violating this section.
      B.   “Emergency” means an unforeseen combination of circumstances or the
resulting state that calls for immediate action, including, but not limited to,
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any other situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious illness, bodily injury, or loss
of life.
      C.   “Establishment” means any privately owned place of business operated
for a profit to which the public is invited, including (but not limited to) any
store, bar, restaurant, Laundromat, car wash, bank facility, and place of
amusement or entertainment, inclusive of the grounds thereof.
      D.   “Minor” means an unemancipated person who has not yet reached his or
her 18th birthday. A minor does not include a person under 18 who is married or
who is a member of the armed forces of the United States.
      E.   “Parent” means a person having legal custody of a minor as a natural
or adoptive parent, as a legal guardian, as a person who stands in loco
parentis, or by virtue of a Court order.
      F.   “Public place” means any place to which the public or a substantial
group of the public has access and includes. but is not limited to, streets,
highways, roadways, parks, public recreation, entertainment or civic facility,
schools, and the common areas of hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
      G.   “Remain” means to stay behind, to tarry, or to stay unnecessarily
at, upon, or in any public assembly, building, place, street, or highway, or to
fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer or the
owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
      H.   “Street” means a way or place, of whatever nature, open to the use
of the public as a matter of right for vehicular or pedestrian travel,
including but not limited to streets, alleys, sidewalks, irrespective of what
the right-of-way is called.
   2.   Loitering of Minors Prohibited. No minor shall loiter, idle, wander,
stroll, or play in or upon any public streets, highways, alleys, vacant lots,
or in any public parks, public buildings, or place of amusement and
entertainment located with the City between the hours of:
      A.   11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday
and 6:00 a.m. of the following day;
      B.   12:00 midnight on any Friday or Saturday and 6:00 a.m. of the
following day.
   3.   Exceptions. In the following situations, a minor is not considered to
be in violation of this section.
      A.   When the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or
other adult person then having the care and custody of the minor;
      B.   When the minor is accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of
such minor to take said parent’s place in accompanying said minor for a
designated period of time and purpose. Such permission shall be written and
presented to a peace officer upon request;
      C.   When the minor is on an emergency errand or legitimate business as
directed in writing, dated and signed by his or her parent, guardian, or other
adult person then having the care and custody of the minor and presented to a
peace officer upon request;
      D.   When the minor exercises First Amendment rights, such as freedom of
speech, free exercise of religion, right of assembly, or right to petition the
government, and use of City streets is a necessary incident thereto;
      E.   When the minor is traveling to or from a school-sponsored or church-
sponsored or government-sponsored event; (Said minor, while at the event or
while traveling along the most direct route between the event and the minor’s
place of residence shall not be deemed to violate this section until after 12:
00 midnight.)
      F.   When the minor is returning home by a direct route from and within
30 minutes from the termination of a school or church activity or government-
sponsored activity or event;
      G.   When the minor is traveling to report for work or returning home
from work along the most direct route between the minor’s place of residence
and the minor’s place of employment;
      H.   When the minor is traveling through the City from a place that is
not within the City, when such travel is by direct route.
   4.   Responsibility of Parents. It is a violation of this section for any
parent, guardian, or other person having the care, custody, and control of a
minor under the age of 18 to knowingly or negligently permit or allow such
minor to violate the provisions of subsection 2 of this section, except as
otherwise provided in subsection 3 of this section.
   5.   Responsibility of Business Establishments. It is a violation of this
section for any person operating a place of business or amusement within the
City to knowingly or negligently permit or allow any minor to be in or upon any
place of business or amusement operated by such person within the curfew hours
set by subsection 2 of this section, except as otherwise provided in subsection
3 of this section. This subsection, however, shall not apply to any minor who
is lawfully employed on the premises.
   6.   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a
police officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in a
public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under
this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that no exception set forth in subsection 3 is applicable. Upon
arrest, the minor shall be returned to the custody of the parent, guardian, or
other person charged with the care and custody of the minor.
   7.   Referral and Follow-Up. All contacts with juveniles under this section
shall be referred to the policy social worker for follow-up contact with the
minor’s parent or guardian.
   8.   Penalty. The violation of any of the provisions of this section shall
constitute a simple misdemeanor or a municipal infraction. Each day that a
violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
   9.   Legal Control of Minors. This section shall not be construed to give
any minor the right to loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon the
public streets, roads, alleys, vacant lots, public buildings, places of
amusement and entertainment until and except for the hours designated in this
section, and all minors shall at all times be subject to legal control by
parents, guardians, or others having the care custody and control of any minor.
46.02 CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO.
   It is unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to smoke, use, possess,
purchase, or attempt to purchase any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes. Possession of tobacco,
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes
by a person under 18 years of age shall not constitute a violation of this
section if said person possesses the tobacco, tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes as part of the person’s
employment and said person is employed by a person who holds a valid permit
under Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or who lawfully offers for sale or sells
cigarettes or tobacco products.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2)
46.03 CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY.
   It is unlawful for any person to encourage any child under 18 years of age
to commit any act of delinquency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 709A.1)
CHAPTER 47
PARK REGULATIONS
 
47.01 Purpose                47.04 Littering
47.02 Use of Drives Required 47.05 Parks Closed
47.03 Fires                  47.06 Camping
 
47.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the enjoyment of park
facilities by the general public by establishing rules and regulations
governing the use of park facilities.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12)
47.02 USE OF DRIVES REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive any car, cycle or other vehicle, or ride or lead any
horse, in any portion of a park except upon the established drives or roadways
therein or such other places as may be officially designated by the City.
47.03 FIRES.
   No fires shall be built, except in a place provided therefor, and such fire
shall be extinguished before leaving the area unless it is to be immediately
used by some other party.
47.04 LITTERING.
   No person shall place, deposit, or throw any waste, refuse, litter or
foreign substance in any area or receptacle except those provided for that
purpose.
47.05 PARKS CLOSED.
   No person, except those camping in designated areas, shall enter or remain
within any park between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. The Mayor may
establish a later closing time for a City-authorized function and file written
authorization of such with the City Clerk.
47.06 CAMPING.
   Camping is limited to tent camping and does not include the use of campers
or other similar vehicles. No person shall camp in any portion of the City
limits except in the City park and upon renting the shelter house for a minimum
of two consecutive days and approval by the Council. The City may refuse
camping privileges or rescind any and all camping privileges.
(Ord. 191 – Dec. 23 Supp.)
CHAPTER 50
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
 
50.01 Definition of Nuisance 50.04 Nuisance Abatement
50.02 Nuisances Enumerated   50.05 Abatement of Nuisance by Written Notice
50.03 Nuisances Prohibited   50.06 Municipal Infraction Abatement Procedure
 
50.01 DEFINITION OF NUISANCE.
   Whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or unreasonably offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is a
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.1)
50.02 NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions which
are deemed to be nuisances in the City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec 657.2)
   1.   Offensive Smells. Erecting, continuing or using any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment or manufacture, which, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, unreasonably offensive smells, or other
annoyances, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort or property
of individuals or the public.
   2.   Filth or Noisome Substance. Causing or suffering any offal, filth, or
noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place to the prejudice of
others.
   3.   Impeding Passage of Navigable River. Obstructing or impeding without
legal authority the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or collection of
water.
   4.   Water Pollution. Corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the
water of any river, stream, or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from its
natural course or state, to the injury or prejudice of others.
   5.   Blocking Public and Private Ways. Obstructing or encumbering, by
fences, buildings or otherwise, the public roads, private ways, streets,
alleys, commons, landing places or burying grounds.
   6.   Billboards. Billboards, signboards and advertising signs, whether
erected and constructed on public or private property, which so obstruct and
impair the view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway,
boulevard or alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render
dangerous the use thereof.
   7.   Storing of Flammable Junk. Depositing or storing of flammable junk,
such as old rags, rope, cordage, rubber, bones and paper, by dealers in such
articles within the fire limits of the City, unless in a building of fireproof
construction. (See also Chapter 51)
   8.   Air Pollution. Emission of dense smoke, noxious fumes or fly ash.
   9.   Weeds, Brush. Dense growth of all weeds, vines, brush, or other
vegetation in the City so as to constitute a health, safety or fire hazard.
   10.   Dutch Elm Disease. Trees infected with Dutch elm disease.
   11.   Airport Air Space. Any object or structure hereafter erected within
one thousand (1,000) feet of the limits of any municipal or regularly
established airport or landing place, which may endanger or obstruct aerial
navigation including take-off and landing, unless such object or structure
constitutes a proper use or enjoyment of the land on which the same is located.
   12.   Houses of Ill Fame. Houses of ill fame, kept for the purpose of
prostitution and lewdness; gambling houses; places resorted to by persons
participating in criminal gang activity prohibited by Chapter 723A of the Code
of Iowa or places resorted to by persons using controlled substances, as
defined in Section 124.101 of the Code of Iowa, in violation of law, or houses
where drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, or breaches of the peace are carried
on or permitted to the disturbance of others.
50.03 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited, and a nuisance,
public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in this chapter or
State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.3)
50.04 NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   Whenever any authorized municipal officer finds that a nuisance exists, such
officer has the authority to determine on a case-by-case basis whether to
utilize the nuisance abatement procedure described in Section
50.05 of this chapter or the municipal infraction procedure referred to in
Section
50.06.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
50.05 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY WRITTEN NOTICE.
   Any nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in
this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   1.   Contents of Notice to Property Owner. The notice to abate shall
contain: † 5   
      A.   Description of Nuisance. A description of what constitutes the
nuisance.
      B.   Location of Nuisance. The location of the nuisance.
      C.   Acts Necessary to Abate. A statement of the act or acts necessary to
abate the nuisance.
      D.   Reasonable Time. A reasonable time within which to complete the
abatement.
      E.   Assessment of City Costs. A statement that if the nuisance or
condition is not abated as directed and no request for hearing is made within
the time prescribed, the City will abate it and assess the costs against the
property owner.
   2.   
Method of Service. The notice may be in the form of an ordinance or sent by
certified mail to the property owner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   3.   Request for Hearing. Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a
hearing with the Council as to whether a nuisance exists. A request for a
hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the Clerk within the time
stated in the notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that a nuisance
exists and it must be abated as ordered. The hearing will be before the Council
at a time and place fixed by the Council. The findings of the Council shall be
conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered abated
within a reasonable time under the circumstances.
   4.   Abatement in Emergency. If it is determined that an emergency exists by
reason of the continuing maintenance of the nuisance or condition, the City may
perform any action that may be required under this chapter without prior
notice. The City shall assess the costs as provided in subsection 6 of this
section after notice to the property owner under the applicable provisions of
subsection 1 and 2, and the hearing as provided in subsection 3.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   5.   Abatement by City. If the person notified to abate a nuisance or
condition neglects or fails to abate as directed, the City may perform the
required action to abate, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred.
The itemized expense account shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall pay such
expenses on behalf of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   6.   Collection of Costs. The Clerk shall send a statement of the total
expense incurred by certified mail to the property owner who has failed to
abide by the notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has not
been paid within one month, the Clerk shall certify the costs to the County
Treasurer and such costs shall then be collected with, and in the same manner
as, general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   7.   Installment Payment of Cost of Abatement. If the amount expended to
abate the nuisance or condition exceeds $500.00, the City may permit the
assessment to be paid in up to 10 annual installments, to be paid in the same
manner and with the same interest rates provided for assessments against
benefited property under State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.13)
   8.   Failure to Abate. Any person causing or maintaining a nuisance who
shall fail or refuse to abate or remove the same within the reasonable time
required and specified in the notice to abate is in violation of this Code of
Ordinances.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: A suggested form of notice for the abatement of nuisances is
  included in the Appendix of this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use
  of this administrative abatement procedure, particularly where cost of abatement
5 is more than minimal or where there is doubt as to whether or not a nuisance does
  in fact exist. If compliance is not secured following notice and hearings, we
  recommend you review the situation with your attorney before proceeding with
  abatement and assessment of costs. Your attorney may recommend proceedings in
  court under Chapter 657 of the Code of Iowa rather than this procedure.
50.06 MUNICIPAL INFRACTION ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   In lieu of the abatement procedures set forth in Section
50.05, the requirements of this chapter may be enforced under the procedures
applicable to municipal infractions as set forth in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 51
JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES
 
51.01 Definitions                       51.04 Exceptions
51.02 Junk and Junk Vehicles Prohibited 51.05 Notice to Abate
51.03 Junk and Junk Vehicles a Nuisance
 
51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other non-
ferrous metal; old or discarded rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste or used lumber, or salvaged wood; dismantled vehicles, machinery
and appliances or parts of such vehicles, machinery or appliances; iron, steel
or other old or scrap ferrous materials; old or discarded glass, tinware,
plastic or old or discarded household goods or hardware. Neatly stacked
firewood located on a side yard or a rear yard is not considered junk.
   2.   “Junk vehicle” means any vehicle legally placed in storage with the
County Treasurer or unlicensed and which has any of the following
characteristics:
      A.   Broken Glass. Any vehicle with a broken or cracked windshield,
window, headlight or tail light, or any other cracked or broken glass.
      B.   Broken, Loose, or Missing Part. Any vehicle with a broken, loose, or
missing fender, door, bumper, hood, steering wheel, or trunk lid.
      C.   Habitat for Nuisance Animals or Insects. Any vehicle which has
become the habitat for rats, mice, or snakes, or any other vermin or insects.
      D.   Flammable Fuel. Any vehicle which contains gasoline or any other
flammable fuel.
      E.   Inoperable. Any motor vehicle which lacks an engine or two or more
wheels or other structural parts, rendering said motor vehicle totally
inoperable, or which cannot be moved under its own power or has not been used
as an operating vehicle for a period of thirty (30) days or more.
      F.   Defective or Obsolete Condition. Any other vehicle which, because of
its defective or obsolete condition, in any other way constitutes a threat to
the public health and safety.
   Mere licensing of such vehicle shall not constitute a defense to the finding
that the vehicle is a junk vehicle.
   3.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which a person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway or street, except devices
moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and
includes without limitation a motor vehicle, automobile, truck, motorcycle,
tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery, or any combination thereof.
51.02 JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to store, accumulate, or allow to remain on
any private property within the corporate limits of the City any junk or junk
vehicle.
51.03 JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES A NUISANCE.
   It is hereby declared that any junk or junk vehicle located upon private
property, unless excepted by Section
51.04, constitutes a threat to the health and safety of the citizens and is a
nuisance within the meaning of Section 657.1 of the Code of Iowa. If any junk
or junk vehicle is kept upon private property in violation hereof, the owner of
or person occupying the property upon which it is located shall be prima facie
liable for said violation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
51.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any junk or a junk vehicle
stored within:
   1.   Structure. A garage or other enclosed structure; or
   2.   Salvage Yard. An auto salvage yard or junk yard lawfully operated
within the City.
51.05 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   Upon discovery of any junk or junk vehicle located upon private property in
violation of Section
51.03, the City shall within five (5) days initiate abatement procedures as
outlined in
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
CHAPTER 52
MOWING OF PROPERTIES
 
52.01 Mowing of Properties 52.03 Method of Service and Billing
52.02 Penalty
 
52.01 MOWING OF PROPERTIES.
   Any property within the City, whether vacated or non-vacated, is required to
be mowed any time the vegetation reaches a height of more than eight (8) inches
in the months of April, May, June, July, August, September, and October of each
year.
52.02 PENALTY.
   Any property which is not mowed may be mowed by the City, and a charge of
$60.00 per hour for such mowing, with a minimum charge of $60.00, will be
charged to the property owner. Any property owners who fail to mow their
properties, thus allowing the same to be mowed by the City, and who do not
provide payment for the mowing as required, will be assessed by the City for
such costs, which will be collected in the same manner as general property
taxes.
52.03 METHOD OF SERVICE AND BILLING.
   Annual publication of the Ordinance codified in this chapter will serve as
notice to property owners. Any billings for mowing done by the City are to be
sent by regular mail and are payable within 30 days of the billing date.
CHAPTER 55
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND CONTROL
55.01 Definitions                  55.11 At Large: Impoundment
55.02 Animal Neglect               55.12 Disposition of Animals
55.03 Livestock Neglect            55.13 Impounding Costs
55.04 Abandonment of Cats and Dogs 55.14 Pet Awards Prohibited
55.05 At Large Prohibited          55.15 Number of Dogs Limited
55.06 Damage or Interference       55.16 Kennels Prohibited
55.07 Annoyance or Disturbance     55.17 Removal of Excrement from Public and
                                   Private Property
55.08 Rabies Vaccination           55.18 Penalty
55.09 Owner’s Duty
55.10 Confinement
 
55.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
   1.   “Advertise” means to present a commercial message in any medium
including but not limited to print, radio, television, sign, display, label,
tag or articulation.
   2.   “Animal” means a nonhuman vertebrate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.1)
   3.   “At large” means off the premises of the owner and not under the
control of a competent person, restrained within a motor vehicle, or housed in
a veterinary hospital or kennel.
   4.   “Business” means any enterprise relating to any of the following:
      A.   The sale or offer for sale of goods or services.
      B.   A recruitment for employment or membership in an organization.
      C.   A solicitation to make an investment.
      D.   An amusement or entertainment activity.
   5.   “Fair” means any of the following:
      A.   The annual fair and exposition held by the Iowa State Fair Board
pursuant to Chapter 173 of the Code of Iowa or any fair event conducted by a
fair under the provisions of Chapter 174 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   An exhibition of agricultural or manufactured products.
      C.   An event for operation of amusement rides or devices or concession
booths.
   6.   “Game” means a “game of chance” or “game of skill” as defined in
Section 99B.1 of the Code of Iowa.
   7.   “Livestock” means an animal belonging to the bovine, caprine, equine,
ovine or porcine species, ostriches, rheas and emus; farm deer as defined in
Section 170.1 of the Code of Iowa; or poultry.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.1)
   8.   “Owner” means any person owning, keeping, sheltering or harboring an
animal.
   9.   “Pet” means a living dog, cat, or an animal normally maintained in a
small tank or cage in or near a residence, including but not limited to a
rabbit, gerbil, hamster, mouse, parrot, canary, mynah, finch, tropical fish,
goldfish, snake, turtle, gecko, or iguana.
55.02 ANIMAL NEGLECT.
   It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines, in any place, an
animal, excluding livestock, to fail to supply the animal during confinement
with a sufficient quantity of food or water, or to fail to provide a confined
dog or cat with adequate shelter, or to torture, deprive of necessary
sustenance, mutilate, beat, or kill such animal by any means which causes
unjustified pain, distress or suffering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.3)
55.03 LIVESTOCK NEGLECT.
   It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines livestock in any place
to fail to provide the livestock with care consistent with customary animal
husbandry practices or to deprive the livestock of necessary sustenance or to
injure or destroy livestock by any means which causes pain or suffering in a
manner inconsistent with customary animal husbandry practices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.2)
55.04 ABANDONMENT OF CATS AND DOGS.
   A person who has ownership or custody of a cat or dog shall not abandon the
cat or dog, except the person may deliver the cat or dog to another person who
will accept ownership and custody or the person may deliver the cat or dog to
an animal shelter or pound.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.8)
55.05 AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any owner to allow an animal to run at large within the
corporate limits of the City.
55.06 DAMAGE OR INTERFERENCE.
   It is unlawful for the owner of an animal to allow or permit such animal to
pass upon the premises of another thereby causing damage to, or interference
with, the premises.
55.07 ANNOYANCE OR DISTURBANCE.
   It is unlawful for the owner of a dog to allow or permit such dog to cause
serious annoyance or disturbance to any person by frequent and habitual
howling, yelping, barking, or otherwise, or by running after or chasing
persons, bicycles, automobiles or other vehicles.
55.08 RABIES VACCINATION.
   Every owner of a dog shall obtain a rabies vaccination for such animal. It
is unlawful for any person to own or have a dog in said person’s possession,
six months of age or over, which has not been vaccinated against rabies.
55.09 OWNER’S DUTY.
   It is the duty of the owner of any dog, cat, or other animal which has
bitten or attacked a person or any person having knowledge of such bite or
attack to report this act to a local health or law enforcement official. It is
the duty of physicians and veterinarians to report to the local board of health
the existence of any animal known or suspected to be suffering from rabies.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.38)
55.10 CONFINEMENT.
   If a local board of health receives information that an animal has bitten a
person or that a dog or animal is suspected of having rabies, the board shall
order the owner to confine such animal in the manner it directs. If the owner
fails to confine such animal in the manner directed, the animal shall be
apprehended and impounded by such board, and after ten (10) days the board may
humanely destroy the animal. If such animal is returned to its owner, the owner
shall pay the cost of impoundment. This section does not apply if a police
service dog or a horse used by a law enforcement agency and acting in the
performance of its duties has bitten a person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.39)
55.11 AT LARGE: IMPOUNDMENT.
   Animals found at large in violation of this chapter shall be seized and
impounded at the impoundment facilities utilized by the City, or at the
discretion of the peace officer, the owner may be served a summons to appear
before a proper court to answer charges made thereunder.
55.12 DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
   When an animal has been apprehended and impounded, written notice shall be
provided to the owner within two (2) days after impoundment, if the owner’s
name and current address can reasonably be determined by accessing a tag or
other device that is on or part of the animal. Impounded animals may be
recovered by the owner upon payment of impounding costs, and if an unvaccinated
dog, by having it immediately vaccinated. If the owner fails to redeem the
animal within three (3) days from the date that the notice is mailed, or if the
owner cannot be located within three days, the animal shall be disposed of in
accordance with law or destroyed by euthanasia.
55.13 IMPOUNDING COSTS.
   Impounding costs are a thirty-five dollar ($35.00) City pick-up fee, plus
impoundment charges as established by the impounding facility.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.37)
55.14 PET AWARDS PROHIBITED.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 717E)
   1.   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to award a pet or advertise
that a pet may be awarded as any of the following:
      A.   A prize for participating in a game.
      B.   A prize for participating in a fair.
      C.   An inducement or condition for visiting a place of business or
attending an event sponsored by a business.
      D.   An inducement or condition for executing a contract which includes
provisions unrelated to the ownership, care or disposition of the pet.
   2.   Exceptions. This section does not apply to any of the following:
      A.   A pet shop licensed pursuant to Section 162.5 of the Code of Iowa if
the award of a pet is provided in connection with the sale of a pet on the
premises of the pet shop.
      B.   Youth programs associated with 4-H Clubs; Future Farmers of America;
the Izaak Walton League of America; or organizations associated with outdoor
recreation, hunting or fishing, including but not limited to the Iowa
Sportsmen’s Federation.
55.15 NUMBER OF DOGS LIMITED.
   It is unlawful for an owner to harbor or house on the same premises more
than three (3) dogs over the age of six (6) months.
55.16 KENNELS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall establish or maintain an animal kennel within the City.
55.17 REMOVAL OF EXCREMENT FROM PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   1.   An owner or custodian of any animal shall keep all structures, pens,
houses, or yards wherein an animal is confined clean and free from excrement
and the odor arising from excrement. Such area shall also be clean and free of
vermin and anything that is likely to become putrid, offensive, or injurious to
health. An area, structure, pen, house, or yard not maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition may be declared a public nuisance.
   2.   It is unlawful for an owner or custodian to permit an animal to
discharge excrement upon any public property, park property, public right-of-
way or the property of another unless the excrement is immediately picked up
and disposed of in an appropriate refuse container.
   3.   Animal excrement shall not be placed in storm sewers or street gutters,
but shall be picked up and disposed of in a sanitary manner in an appropriate
refuse container.
55.18 PENALTY.
   The scheduled fines for any violation of this chapter are as follows:
   1.   First Offense - $100.00.
   2.   Second Offense and Following Offenses - $150.00.
CHAPTER 56
DOG LICENSE REQUIRED
 
56.01 Annual License Required 56.05 License Records
56.02 License Fees            56.06 Immunization
56.03 Delinquency             56.07 Duplicate Tags
56.04 License Tags
 
56.01 ANNUAL LICENSE REQUIRED.
   1.   Every owner of a dog over the age of six months shall procure a dog
license from the Clerk on or before the first day of January of each year.
   2.   Such license may be procured after January 1 and at any time for a dog
which has come into the possession or ownership of the applicant or which has
reached the age of six (6) months after said date.
   3.   The owner of a dog for which a license is required shall apply to the
Clerk on forms provided by the Clerk.
   4.   The form of the application shall state the breed, sex, age, color,
markings, and name, if any, of the dog, the address of the owner and the date
the dog shall be revaccinated for rabies.
   5.   All licenses shall expire on January 1 of the year following the date
of issuance.
56.02 LICENSE FEES.
   The annual license fee is $5.00 for each male dog, $10.00 for each female
dog, and $5.00 for each spayed dog.
56.03 DELINQUENCY.
   1.   All license fees shall be become delinquent on the first day of March
of the year they are due and payable and a penalty of $10.00 for the first
month plus $5.00 for each succeeding month shall be added to each unpaid
license on and after
March 1.
   2.   Applications for a license must be made within thirty (30) days for a
dog which has come into possession or ownership of the applicant after March 1
and within thirty (30) days for any dog which has reached the age of six months
after March 1. A penalty of $10.00 for the first month plus $5.00 for each
succeeding month shall be added to each unpaid license after the 30-day period.
56.04 LICENSE TAGS.
   Upon receipt of the application and fee, the Clerk shall deliver or mail to
the owner a license which shall be in the form of a metal tag stamped with the
serial number of the license as shown on the record book of the Clerk, the year
in which it is issued, and the name of the City. The license tag shall be
securely fastened by the owner to a collar or harness which shall be worn at
all times by the dog for which issued. Any dog found running at large without
the license tag attached to its collar or harness shall be deemed unlicensed. A
license issued for one dog shall not be transferable to another dog. Upon the
expiration of the license the owner shall remove said tag from the dog.
56.05 LICENSE RECORDS.
   The Clerk shall keep a book to be known as the record of licenses which
shall show:
   1.   The serial number and date of each application for a license.
   2.   The description of the dog as specified in the application, together
with the name of the owner of the dog.
   3.   The date when each license tag is issued and the serial number of each
tag the date of the most recent rabies vaccination, the type of vaccine
administered, and the date the dog shall be revaccinated.
   4.   The amount of all fees paid.
   5.   Such other data as may be required by law.
56.06 IMMUNIZATION.
   Before a license is issued, the owner shall furnish a veterinarian’s
certificate showing that the dog for which the license is sought has been
vaccinated against rabies, and that the vaccination does not expire within six
months from the effective date of the dog license. A tag showing evidence of
proper vaccination shall at all times be attached to the collar of the dog.
56.07 DUPLICATE TAGS.
   Upon the filing of an affidavit that the license tag has been lost or
destroyed, the owner may obtain another tag and the Clerk shall enter in the
license record the new number assigned.
CHAPTER 57
VICIOUS ANIMALS
 
57.01 Definition                 57.03 Seizure, Impoundment and Disposition
57.02 Keeping of Vicious Animals 57.04 Penalty
Prohibited
 
57.01 DEFINITION.
   For use in this chapter, “vicious animal” means any animal that has
attacked, bitten or clawed a person while running at large and the attack was
unprovoked, or any animal that has exhibited vicious tendencies in present or
past conduct, including such that said animal (a) has bitten more than one
person during the animal’s lifetime; or (b) has bitten one person on two or
more occasions during the animal’s lifetime; or (c) has attacked any domestic
animal or fowl without provocation, causing injury or death while off the
property of the owner.
57.02 KEEPING OF VICIOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall keep, shelter or harbor for any reason within the City a
vicious animal except in the following circumstances:
   1.   Animals under the control of a law enforcement or military agency.
   2.   The keeping of guard dogs; however, guard dogs must be kept within a
structure or fixed enclosure at all times, and any guard dog found at large may
be processed as a vicious animal pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
Any premises guarded by a guard dog shall be prominently posted with a sign
containing the wording “Guard Dog,” “Vicious Dog,” or words of similar import,
and the owner of such premises shall inform the Mayor or peace officer that a
guard dog is on duty at said premises.
57.03 SEIZURE, IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION.
   1.   In the event that a vicious animal is found at large and unattended
upon public property, park property, public right-of-way or the property of
someone other than its owner, thereby creating a hazard to persons or property,
such animal may, in the discretion of the Mayor or peace officer, be destroyed
if it cannot be confined or captured. The City shall be under no duty to
attempt the confinement or capture of a vicious animal found at large, nor
shall it have a duty to notify the owner of such animal prior to its
destruction.
   2.   Upon the complaint of any individual that a person is keeping,
sheltering or harboring a vicious animal on premises in the City, the Mayor or
peace officer shall cause the matter to be investigated; and if after
investigation, the facts indicate that the person named in the complaint is
keeping, sheltering or harboring a vicious animal in the City, the Mayor or
peace officer shall order the person named in the complaint to safely remove
such animal from the City or destroy the animal within three (3) days of the
receipt of such an order. Such order shall be contained in a notice to remove
the vicious animal, which notice shall be given in writing to the person
keeping, sheltering or harboring the vicious animal, and shall be served
personally or by certified mail. Such order and notice to remove the vicious
animal shall not be required where such animal has previously caused serious
physical harm or death to any person, in which case the Mayor or peace officer
shall cause the animal to be immediately seized and impounded or killed if
seizure and impoundment are not possible without risk of serious physical harm
or death to any person.
   3.   The order to remove a vicious animal issued by the Mayor or peace
officer may be appealed to the Council. In order to appeal such order, written
notice of appeal must be filed with the Clerk within three (3) days after
receipt of the order contained in the notice to remove the vicious animal.
Failure to file such written notice of appeal shall constitute a waiver of the
right to appeal the order of the Mayor or peace officer.
   4.   The notice of appeal shall state the grounds for such appeal and shall
be delivered personally or by certified mail to the Clerk. The hearing of such
appeal shall be scheduled within seven (7) days of the receipt of the notice of
appeal. The hearing may be continued for good cause. After such hearing, the
Council may affirm or reverse the order of the Mayor or peace officer. Such
determination shall be contained in a written decision and shall be filed with
the Clerk within three (3) days after the hearing or any continued session
thereof.
   5.   If the Council affirms the action of the Mayor or peace officer, the
Council shall order in its written decision that the person owning, sheltering,
harboring or keeping such vicious animal remove such animal from the City or
destroy it. The decision and order shall immediately be served upon the person
against whom rendered in the same manner as the notice of removal. If the
original order of the Mayor or peace officer is not appealed and is not
complied with within three (3) days or the order of the Council after appeal is
not complied with within three (3) days of its issuance, the Mayor or peace
officer is authorized to seize, impound or destroy such vicious animal. Failure
to comply with an order of the Mayor or peace officer issued pursuant to this
chapter and not appealed, or of the Council after appeal, constitutes a simple
misdemeanor.
57.04 PENALTY.
   The scheduled fine for any violation of this chapter shall be $250.00.
(Ord. 129 – Dec. 11 Supp.)
CHAPTER 58
KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK AND FOWL
 
58.01 Permit Required      58.06 Enclosure Sanitation
58.02 Revocation of Permit 58.07 Refuse Containers
58.03 Appeal               58.08 Food Storage
58.04 Removal of Animals   58.09 Fenced Premises
58.05 Transfer Prohibited  58.10 Location of Enclosures
 
58.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall have in his or her possession or control or keep or harbor
any equine or bovine animals, any sheep, goats, pigs, mink or any hares,
rabbits, guinea pigs, chickens, turkeys, geese, ducks, doves, pigeons, game
birds, other fowl, or any poisonous reptiles or insects within the City limits
without first obtaining a written permit from the City Council. A permit may be
issued by the City Council upon proper application. A permit shall be valid for
a period set by the Council, not to exceed one year from and after the date of
issuance, and will automatically renew annually.
58.02 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   A permit shall be subject to revocation for any violation of the provisions
of this chapter or any other pertinent ordinance of the City, or any statute of
the State of Iowa pertaining hereto. Notice of such revocation shall be given
in writing, delivered personally or by regular mail to the holder of the
permit.
58.03 APPEAL.
   The City Council may hear and determine any appeal pertaining to the
issuance or revocation of a permit as herein provided upon application or
request to do so by the applicant or permit holder.
58.04 REMOVAL OF ANIMALS.
   In the event of the revocation of a permit, the holder of such permit shall
remove all animals or fowl from the premises within fifteen (15) days after
receipt of the notice of revocation, subject to the condition, however, that in
the event an appeal is made to the City Council regarding such revocation, the
period of time for removal of such animals or fowl shall be extended until ten
(10) days after affirmation of the revocation by the City Council.
58.05 TRANSFER PROHIBITED.
   A permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall not be sold, assigned or
transferred, and shall apply only to the premises designated and the person to
whom issued.
58.06 ENCLOSURE SANITATION.
   All premises, enclosures or structures used or intended to be used for the
keeping or housing of any such animals or fowl shall be regularly and
thoroughly cleaned and all debris, refuse, manure or obnoxious materials
removed as often as is necessary to effect satisfactory compliance with the
provisions of this section. In determining the matter of cleanliness and
sanitation, the Council shall consider, but shall not be limited by, the
following:
   1.   The presence of numerous flies in the vicinity of any such enclosure
shall be evidence of a lack of sanitary maintenance of the premises.
   2.   Any unnecessary accumulation of debris, refuse, manure, or obnoxious
materials upon any surface within any such enclosed area or premises, or within
any structure used or intended to be used for the housing of such animals or
fowl, shall be evidence of a lack of sanitary maintenance of the premises.
   3.   Any obnoxious odor created and existing by reason of any unsanitary
condition within the enclosure or within any structure used or intended to be
used for the housing of such animals or fowl, shall be evidence of a lack of
sanitary maintenance of the premises.
   4.   Any condition permitted to exist which constitutes a menace to the
public health shall be evidence of a lack of sanitary maintenance of the
premises.
58.07 REFUSE CONTAINERS.
   All refuse and manure and any material conducive to the breeding of flies,
or which may create any obnoxious odors, removed from such enclosure or
structure shall be placed in suitable tight containers until completely removed
from the premises. The containers must be covered with a tightly fitted fly-
proof cover and the refuse entirely removed from the premises or actually
turned under the surface of the soil in such a manner as to avoid obnoxious
odors, the breeding of flies, or any menace to the public health.
58.08 FOOD STORAGE.
   All food for animals and fowl shall be kept and stored in such manner as to
not invite rodent infestation.
58.09 FENCED PREMISES.
   Any person keeping any such animals or fowl within the City shall keep the
premises upon which they are kept so fenced as to keep such animals or fowl
from leaving the premises and shall not permit such animals or fowl to roam at
large upon the streets or upon the property of other persons.
58.10 LOCATION OF ENCLOSURES.
   Notwithstanding the securing of a permit, as required by this chapter, no
person shall keep any animals or fowl within 150 feet of any dwelling, other
than the dwelling of the owner of such animals or fowl, or within 25 feet of
the dwelling of the owner of such animals or fowl, subject to the condition,
however, that the City Council shall have and possess power and authority upon
good, sufficient and satisfactory showing to permit the keeping of such animals
or fowl at a lesser distance than 150 feet of any dwelling, other than the
dwelling of the owner of such animals or fowl, or at a lesser distance than 25
feet of the dwelling of the owner of the animals or fowl, but in no event less
than 60 feet from any dwelling, other than the dwelling of the owner of such
animals or fowl, unless written permission has been obtained by the applicant
from the occupant of the dwelling which falls within 60 feet of where such
animals or fowls are kept. Such consent shall be attached to the application
and made a part thereof.
CHAPTER 60
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE
 
60.01 Title                          60.05 Traffic Accidents: Reports
60.02 Definitions                    60.06 Peace Officer’s Authority
60.03 Administration and Enforcement 60.07 Obedience to Peace Officers
60.04 Power to Direct Traffic        60.08 Parades Regulated
 
60.01 TITLE.
   Chapters 60 through 70 of this Code of Ordinances may be known and cited as
the “Pierson Traffic Code.”
60.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Where words and phrases used in the Traffic Code are defined by State law,
such definitions apply to their use in said Traffic Code and are adopted by
reference. Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, have the following
meanings:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)
   1.   “Business District” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway when fifty percent (50%) or more of the frontage thereon for a distance
of three hundred (300) feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for
business.
   2.   “Park” or “parking” means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   3.   “Peace officer” means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   4.   “Residence district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway not comprising a business, suburban or school district, where forty
percent (40%) or more of the frontage on such a highway for a distance of three
hundred (300) feet or more is occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and
buildings in use for business.
   5.   “School district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway for a distance of two hundred (200) feet in either direction from a
schoolhouse.
   6.   “Stand” or “standing” means the halting of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
   7.   “Stop” means when required, the complete cessation of movement.
   8.   “Stop” or “stopping” means when prohibited, any halting of a vehicle,
even momentarily, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control sign or signal.
   9.   “Suburban district” means all other parts of the city not included in
the business, school, or residence districts.
   10.   “Traffic control device” means all signs, signals, markings, and
devices not inconsistent with this chapter, lawfully placed or erected for the
purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
   11.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, street, or
alley.
60.03 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   Provisions of this chapter and State law relating to motor vehicles and law
of the road are enforced by the Peace Officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13 [4])
60.04 POWER TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
   A peace officer, and, in the absence of a peace officer, any officer of the
Fire Department when at the scene of a fire, is authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws. In the event
of an emergency, traffic may be directed as conditions require, notwithstanding
the provisions of the traffic laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.4 & 321.236[2])
60.05 TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS: REPORTS.
   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident within the limits of the
City shall file a report as and when required by the Iowa Department of
Transportation. A copy of this report shall be filed with the City for the
confidential use of peace officers and shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 321.271 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.273)
60.06 PEACE OFFICER’S AUTHORITY.
   A peace officer is authorized to stop a vehicle to require exhibition of the
driver’s license of the driver, to serve a summons or memorandum of traffic
violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to inspect the vehicle with
reference to size, weight, cargo, log book, bills of lading or other manifest
of employment, tires and safety equipment, or to inspect the registration
certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or permit of such
vehicle. A peace officer having probable cause to stop a vehicle may require
exhibition of the proof of financial liability coverage card issued for the
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.492)
60.07 OBEDIENCE TO PEACE OFFICERS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control, or regulate traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.229)
60.08 PARADES REGULATED.
   No person shall conduct or cause any parade on any street except as provided
herein:
   1.   Definition. “Parade” means any march or procession of persons or
vehicles organized for marching or moving on the streets in an organized
fashion or manner or any march or procession of persons or vehicles represented
or advertised to the public as a parade.
   2.   Approval Required. No parade shall be conducted without first obtaining
approval from the Council. The person organizing or sponsoring the parade shall
provide information concerning the time and date for the parade and the streets
or general route therefor, and any approval given to such person includes all
participants in the parade, provided they have been invited to participate.
   3.   Parade Not A Street Obstruction. Any parade for which approval has been
given and the persons lawfully participating therein shall not be deemed an
obstruction of the streets, notwithstanding the provisions of any other
ordinance to the contrary.
   4.   Control by Peace Officers and Firefighters. Persons participating in
any parade shall at all times be subject to the lawful orders and directions in
the performance of their duties of law enforcement personnel and members of the
Fire Department.
CHAPTER 61
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
 
61.01 Traffic Control Devices 61.04 Standards
61.02 Crosswalks              61.05 Compliance
61.03 Traffic Lanes
 
61.01 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The Council shall establish by resolution, and cause to be placed and
maintained, appropriate traffic control devices to indicate parking spaces and
zones, no parking zones, limited parking zones, reserved parking zones, loading
zones, safety zones, school zones, hospital zones, quiet zones, traffic zones
other than the above, truck routes, one-way streets, streets to be laned for
traffic and play streets. The Council shall also have the power to designate
and indicate by resolution intersections at which traffic shall be controlled
by traffic signals; intersections at which left turns, right turns and U-turns
shall be prohibited; and intersections at which markers, buttons or other
indications shall be placed to indicate the course to be traveled by vehicles
traversing or turning at such intersections. The City shall keep a record of
all such traffic control devices.
61.02 COMPLIANCE.
   No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official
traffic control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, unless at the time otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject to
the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under
Section 321.231 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
61.03 CROSSWALKS.
   The Council is hereby authorized to designate and maintain crosswalks by
appropriate traffic control devices at intersections where, due to traffic
conditions, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street or
roadway, and at such other places as traffic conditions require.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] & 321.255)
61.04 TRAFFIC LANES.
   Where traffic lanes have been marked on street pavements at such places as
traffic conditions require, it is unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the boundaries of any such lane
except when lawfully passing another vehicle or preparatory to making a lawful
turning movement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] & 321.255)
61.05 STANDARDS.
   Traffic control devices shall comply with standards established by The
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
CHAPTER 62
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
 
62.01 Violation of Regulations 62.05 Quiet Zones
62.02 Play Streets Designated  62.06 Obstructing View at Intersections
62.03 Vehicles on Sidewalks    62.07 Compression Brakes
62.04 Clinging to Vehicle
 
62.01 VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
   Any person who willfully fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order of
a peace officer or direction of a Fire Department officer during a fire, or who
fails to abide by the applicable provisions of the following Iowa statutory
laws relating to motor vehicles and the statutory law of the road is in
violation of this section. These sections of the Code of Iowa are adopted by
reference and are as follows:
   1.   Display of Registration and License to Drive: 321.17, 321.32, 321.37,
321.38, 321.57, 321.67, 321.78, 321.79, 321.91, 321.98, 321.99, 321.104,
321.115, 321.174, 321.174A, 321.180, 321.180B, 321.193, 321.194, 321.208A,
321.216, 321.216B, 321.216C and 321.218 through 321.224.
   2.   All Terrain Vehicles, Golf Carts, and Bicycles to Obey Traffic
Regulations, Speed Detection Jamming Devices, Road Workers: 321.232 through
321.234A, 235A and 321.247.
   3.   Traffic Signs, Signals, and Markings: 321.259 and 321.260.
   4.   Accidents and Accident Reporting: 321.262 through 321.266.
   5.   Operation of Motorcycles and Motorized Bicycles: 321.275.
   6.   Drag Racing; Speed; Open Containers; Control of Vehicle: 321.276,
321.277, 321.277A, 321.278, 321.281, 321.284, 321.284A, 321.288, 321.295,
321.333, 321.382 and 321.383.
   7.   Driving on Right, Meeting, Overtaking, Following, or Towing: 321.297
through 321.299 and 321.302 through 321.310.
   8.   Turning and Starting, Signals on Turning and Stopping: 321.312 through
321.318.
   9.   Right-of-Way: 321.319 through 321.324A.
   10.   Pedestrian Rights and Duties and Safety Zones: 321.329, 321.330,
321.332, 321.333, and 321.340.
   11.   Railroad Crossings: 321.341 through 321.344 and 321.344B.
   12.   Stopping, Standing, Parking: 321.354 and 321.359.
   13.   Unattended Vehicle, Obstructing Driver’s View, Crossing Median,
Following Fire Apparatus, or Crossing Fire Hose, and Putting Glass, Etc., on
Streets: 321.362 through 321.365 and 321.367 through 321.371.
   14.   School Buses: 321.372.
   15.   Lighting Equipment Required and Time of Use: 321.384 through 321.390,
321.392 through 321.395, 321.398, 321.402 through 321.405, 321.408, 321.409,
321.415, 321.417 through 321.423. In accordance with authorization granted by
Section 321.395, Code of Iowa, motor vehicles parked upon any street where
permitted by this chapter need not display required lights where there is
sufficient light emitted from City street lights to reveal any person or object
within a distance of five hundred (500) feet upon such street.
   16.   Brakes, Horns, Sirens, Mufflers, Wipers, Mirrors, Tires, Flares,
Windows, Safety Belts, and Special Markings for Transporting Explosives:
321.430 through 321.434; 321.436 through 321.442; 321.444 through 321.446,
321.449, 321.449A, and 321.450.
   17.   Size, Weight, and Load: 321.454 through 321.458, 321.460 through
321.463, 321.465 and 321.466.
   18.   Unsafe Vehicles: 321.381 and 321.381A.
62.02 PLAY STREETS DESIGNATED.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof
as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street or
portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences
are within such closed area, and then any said driver shall exercise the
greatest care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
62.03 VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk area
except at a driveway.
62.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLE.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of the City unless all
passengers of said vehicle are inside the vehicle in the place intended for
their accommodation. No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
in-line skates, sled or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself
to any vehicle upon a roadway.
62.05 QUIET ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
62.06 OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS.
   It is unlawful to allow any tree, hedge, billboard, or other object to
obstruct the view of an intersection by preventing persons from having a clear
view of traffic approaching the intersection from cross streets. Any such
obstruction is deemed a nuisance and in addition to the standard penalty may be
abated in the manner provided by
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
62.07 COMPRESSION BRAKES.
   1.   It is unlawful for any person in any part of the City to make, or cause
to be made, loud or disturbing noises with any mechanical devices operated by
compressed air and used for the purpose of assisting braking on any semi-
tractor, commonly referred to as Jake braking. The City shall cause notices to
be posted or signs erected indicating such prohibition.
   2.   Evidence that the noise from the operation of such device is audible at
a distance of 300 feet from the motor vehicle is prima facie evidence of a
violation, subject to fine as determined to be a simple misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 63
SPEED REGULATIONS
 
63.01 General                            63.04 Special Speed Zones
63.02 State Code Speed Limits            63.05 Minimum Speed
63.03 Parks, Cemeteries and Parking Lots
 
63.01 GENERAL.
   Every driver of a motor vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and
of any other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle on
any street at a speed greater than will permit said driver to bring it to a
stop within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right to
assume, however, that all persons using said street will observe the law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.285)
63.02 STATE CODE SPEED LIMITS.
   The following speed limits are established in Section 321.285 of the Code of
Iowa and any speed in excess thereof is unlawful unless specifically designated
otherwise in this chapter as a special speed zone.
   1.   Business District – twenty (20) miles per hour.
   2.   Residence or School District – twenty-five (25) miles per hour.
   3.   Suburban District – forty-five (45) miles per hour.
63.03 PARKS, CEMETERIES AND PARKING LOTS.
   A speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour in any public park,
cemetery or parking lot, unless specifically designated otherwise in this
chapter, is unlawful.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[5])
63.04 SPECIAL SPEED ZONES.
   In accordance with requirements of the Iowa Department of Transportation, or
whenever the Council shall determine upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that any speed limit listed in Section
63.02 is greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found
to exist at any intersection or other place or upon any part of the City street
system, the Council shall determine and adopt by ordinance such higher or lower
speed limit as it deems reasonable and safe at such location. The following
special speed zones have been established:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.290)
   1.   Special 15 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles per
hour is unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   Main Street from Third Street to Fourth Street.
      B.   Fourth Street from Hillcrest Street to Summit Street.
      C.   Haines Street from South Street to Second Street.
63.05 MINIMUM SPEED.
   A person shall not drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede
or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced
speed is necessary for safe operation, or in compliance with law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.294)
CHAPTER 64
TURNING REGULATIONS
 
64.01 Turning at Intersections 64.02 U-Turns
 
64.01 TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
   1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   2.   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right
half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to depart from the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
   3.   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street
shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection. A left turn from a one-way street into a two-way
street shall be made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street
being entered upon leaving the intersection.
   The Council may cause markers, buttons or signs to be placed within or
adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct, as traffic conditions
require, that a different course from that specified above be traveled by
vehicles turning at intersections, and when markers, buttons or signs are so
placed, no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other
than as directed and required by such markers, buttons or signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.311)
64.02 U-TURNS.
   It is unlawful for a driver to make a U-turn except at an intersection;
however, U-turns are prohibited within the business district and at any
intersection where a sign prohibiting U-turns is posted in accordance with
Chapter 61 of this Traffic Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[9])
CHAPTER 65
STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED
 
65.01 Stop Required  65.04 Stop Before Crossing Sidewalk
65.02 Yield Required 65.05 Stop When Traffic Is Obstructed
65.03 School Stops   65.06 Yield to Pedestrians in Crosswalks
 
65.01 STOP REQUIRED.
   Every driver of a vehicle shall stop in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Fourth Street. Vehicles traveling west on Fourth Street shall stop at
Summit Street.
   2.   Fourth Street. Vehicles traveling west on Fourth Street shall stop at
(school) east of drive.
   3.   Fourth Street. Vehicles traveling west on Fourth Street shall stop at
Front Street.
   4.   Fourth Street. Vehicles traveling east on Fourth Street shall stop at
Elm Street.
   5.   Fourth Street. Vehicles traveling east on Fourth Street shall stop at
Main Street.
   6.   Hillcrest Street. Vehicles traveling south on Hillcrest Street shall
stop at Fourth Street.
   7.   Elm Street. Vehicles traveling south on Elm Street shall stop at Front
Street.
   8.   Main Street. Vehicles traveling north on Main Street shall stop at
Fourth Street.
   9.   Main Street. Vehicles traveling north on Main Street shall stop at
Second Street.
   10.   Main Street. Vehicles traveling south on Main Street shall stop at
Second Street.
   11.   Summit Street. Vehicles traveling south on Summit Street shall stop at
Second Street.
   12.   Summit Street. Vehicles traveling south on Summit Street shall stop at
First Street.
   13.   Haines Street. Vehicles traveling south on Haines Street shall stop at
Front Street.
   14.   First Street. Vehicles traveling west on First Street shall stop at
Haines Street.
   15.   First Street. Vehicles traveling west on First Street shall stop at
Summit Street.
   16.   Hillcrest Street. Vehicles traveling south on Hillcrest Street shall
stop at Front Street.
   17.   Front Street. Vehicles traveling west on Front Street shall stop at
Main Street.
   18.   Maple Street. Vehicles traveling west on Maple Street shall stop at
Front Street.
   19.   Jones Street. Vehicles traveling west on Jones Street shall stop at
Elm Street.
   20.   Minnesota Street. Vehicles traveling north on Minnesota Street shall
stop at Fourth Street.
   21.   Minnesota Street. Vehicles traveling south on Minnesota Street shall
stop at Front Street.
   22.   West Street. Vehicles traveling south on West Street shall stop at
Fourth Street.
   23.   Irwin Avenue. Vehicles traveling south on Irwin Avenue shall stop at
Front Street.
   24.   Hillcrest Street. Vehicles traveling north on Hillcrest Street shall
stop at Fourth Street.
   25.   Elm Street. Vehicles traveling northeast on Elm Street shall stop at
Front Street.
65.02 YIELD REQUIRED.
   Every driver of a vehicle shall yield in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Haines Street. Vehicles traveling north on Haines Street shall yield at
Fourth Street.
   2.   Haines Street. Vehicles traveling north on Haines Street shall yield at
Second Street.
   3.   Haines Street. Vehicles traveling south on Haines Street shall yield at
Second Street.
   4.   Summit Street. Vehicles traveling north on Summit Street shall yield at
Fourth Street.
   5.   Third Street. Vehicles traveling east on Third Street shall yield at
Haines Street.
   6.   Third Street. Vehicles traveling west on Third Street shall yield at
Summit Street.
   7.   Third Street. Vehicles traveling west on Third Street shall yield at
Second Street.
   8.   Third Street. Vehicles traveling west on Third Street shall yield at
Elm Street.
   9.   South Street. Vehicles traveling west on South Street shall yield at
Haines Street.
   10.   Front Street. Vehicles traveling northwest on Front Street shall yield
at Second Street.
   11.   Maple Street. Vehicles traveling southeast on Maple Street shall yield
at Elm Street.
65.03 SCHOOL STOPS.
   At any school crossing zone, every driver of a vehicle approaching said zone
shall bring the vehicle to a full stop at a point ten (10) feet from the
approach side of the crosswalk marked by an authorized school stop sign and
thereafter proceed in a careful and prudent manner until the vehicle shall have
passed through such school crossing zone.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.249)
65.04 STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from a private roadway, alley, driveway, or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk
area and thereafter shall proceed into the sidewalk area only when able to do
so without danger to pedestrian traffic and shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicular traffic on the street into which the vehicle is entering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.353)
65.05 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC IS OBSTRUCTED.
   Notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed, no driver
shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient
space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the
vehicle.
65.06 YIELD TO PEDESTRIANS IN CROSSWALKS.
   Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver
of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need
be, to yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk
or within any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.327)
CHAPTER 66
LOAD AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
 
66.01 Temporary Embargo                  66.04 Load Limits on Bridges
66.02 Permits for Excess Size and Weight 66.05 Truck Route
66.03 Load Limits Upon Certain Streets
 
66.01 TEMPORARY EMBARGO.
   If the Council declares an embargo when it appears by reason of
deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic conditions that certain streets
will be seriously damaged or destroyed by vehicles weighing in excess of an
amount specified by the signs, no such vehicles shall be operated on streets so
designated by such signs erected in accordance with Chapter 61 of this Traffic
Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471 & 472)
66.02 PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT.
   The Council may, upon application and good cause being shown therefor, issue
a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move a
vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight or load exceeding the
maximum specified by State law or the City over those streets or bridges named
in the permit which are under the jurisdiction of the City and for which the
City is responsible for maintenance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 & 321E.2)
66.03 LOAD LIMITS UPON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified on such signs at
any time upon any of the streets or parts of streets for which said signs are
erected in accordance with
Chapter 61 of this Traffic Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 & 475)
66.04 LOAD LIMITS ON BRIDGES.
   Where it has been determined that any City bridge has a capacity less than
the maximum permitted on the streets of the City, or on the street serving the
bridge, the Council may cause to be posted and maintained signs, in accordance
with
Chapter 61 of this Traffic Code, on said bridge and at suitable distances ahead
of the entrances thereof to warn drivers of such maximum load limits, and no
person shall drive a vehicle weighing, loaded or unloaded, upon said bridge in
excess of such posted limit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471)
66.05 TRUCK ROUTE.
   When truck routes have been designated in accordance with
Chapter 61, any motor vehicle exceeding established weight limits shall comply
with the following:
   1.   Use of Established Routes. Every such motor vehicle having no fixed
terminal within the City or making no scheduled or definite stops within the
City for the purpose of loading or unloading shall travel over or upon those
streets within the City designated as truck routes and none other.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
   2.   Deliveries Off Truck Route. Any such motor vehicle, when loaded or
empty, having a fixed terminal, making a scheduled or definite stop within the
City for the purpose of loading or unloading shall proceed over or upon the
designated routes to the nearest point of its scheduled or definite stop and
shall proceed thereto, load or unload and return, by the most direct route to
its point of departure from said designated route.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
   3.   Employer’s Responsibility. The owner, or any other person, employing or
otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle shall not require or knowingly
permit the operation of such vehicle upon a street in any manner contrary to
this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
CHAPTER 67
PEDESTRIANS
 
67.01 Walking in Street 67.03 Pedestrian Crossing
67.02 Hitchhiking
 
67.01 WALKING IN STREET.
   Pedestrians shall at all times, when walking on or along a street, walk on
the left side of the street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.326)
67.02 HITCHHIKING.
   No person shall stand in the traveled portion of a street for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the driver of any private vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.331)
67.03 PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.328)
CHAPTER 68
ONE-WAY TRAFFIC
68.01 ONE-WAY TRAFFIC REQUIRED.
   When appropriate signs are in place, as provided for in
Chapter 61 of this Traffic Code, vehicular traffic, other than permitted cross
traffic, shall move only in the direction indicated on such signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [4])
CHAPTER 69
PARKING REGULATIONS
 
69.01 Parking Limited or Controlled     69.06 Parking for Certain Purposes
                                        Illegal
69.02 Park Adjacent to Curb             69.07 Parking Prohibited
69.03 Park Adjacent to Curb – One-Way 69.08 Persons With Disabilities Parking
Street
69.04 Angle Parking                     69.09 Truck Parking Limited
69.05 Angle Parking – Manner          69.10 Snow Emergency Parking
 
 
69.01 PARKING LIMITED OR CONTROLLED.
   Parking of vehicles shall be controlled or limited where so indicated by
designated traffic control devices in accordance with Chapter 61 of this
Traffic Code. No person shall stop, park or stand a vehicle in violation of any
such posted parking regulations unless in compliance with the directions of a
peace officer.
69.02 PARK ADJACENT TO CURB.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or
edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in the case of angle parking
and vehicles parked on the left-hand side of one-way streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.03 PARK ADJACENT TO CURB – ONE-WAY STREET.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle on the left-hand side of a one-way
street other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction
of lawful traffic movement and with the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within
18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in
the case of angle parking.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.04 ANGLE PARKING.
   Angle or diagonal parking is permitted only in the following locations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
   1.   Main Street, on the west side, from Third Street to Second Street.
   2.   Second Street, on both sides, from Summit Street to Main Street.
69.05 ANGLE PARKING – MANNER.
   Upon those streets or portions of streets which have been signed or marked
for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at an
angle to the curb or edge of the roadway or in the center of the roadway as
indicated by such signs and markings. No part of any vehicle or the load
thereon, when said vehicle is parked within a diagonal parking district, shall
extend into the roadway more than a distance of 16 feet when measured at right
angles to the adjacent curb or edge of roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.06 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES ILLEGAL.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon public property for more than 48 hours
unless otherwise limited under the provisions of Section
69.01 of this chapter, or for any of the following principal purposes:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [1])
   1.   Sale. Displaying such vehicle for sale.
   2.   Repairing. For lubricating, repairing or for commercial washing of such
vehicle except such repairs as are necessitated by an emergency.
   3.   Advertising. Displaying advertising.
   4.   Merchandise Sales. Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a
duly established market place or when so authorized or licensed under the Code
of Ordinances.
69.07 PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No one shall stop, stand or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
   1.   Crosswalk. On a crosswalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[5])
   2.   Center Parkway. On the center parkway or dividing area of any divided
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   3.   Mailboxes. Within twenty (20) feet on either side of a mailbox which is
so placed and so equipped as to permit the depositing of mail from vehicles on
the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   4.   Sidewalks. On or across a sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[1])
   5.   Driveway. In front of a public or private driveway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[2])
   6.   Intersection. Within an intersection or within 20 feet of an
intersection of any street or alley, such area to include the City right-of-way
(parking).
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[3])
   7.   Fire Hydrant. Within five (5) feet of a fire hydrant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358 [4])
   8.   Stop Sign or Signal. Within ten (10) feet upon the approach to any
flashing beacon, stop or yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the
side of a roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[6])
   9.   Railroad Crossing. Within fifty (50) feet of the nearest rail of a
railroad crossing, except when parked parallel with such rail and not
exhibiting a red light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[8])
   10.   Fire Station. Within twenty (20) feet of the driveway entrance to any
fire station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire
station within seventy-five (75) feet of said entrance when properly sign
posted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[9])
   11.   Excavations. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or
obstruction when such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[10])
   12.   Double Parking. On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked
at the edge or curb of a street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[11])
   13.   Hazardous Locations. When, because of restricted visibility or when
standing or parked vehicles would constitute a hazard to moving traffic, or
when other traffic conditions require, the Council may cause curbs to be
painted with a yellow color and erect no parking or standing signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[13])
   14.   Churches, Nursing Homes and Other Buildings. A space of fifty (50)
feet is hereby reserved at the side of the street in front of any theatre,
auditorium, hotel having more than twenty-five (25) sleeping rooms, hospital,
nursing home, taxicab stand, bus depot, church, or other building where large
assemblages of people are being held, within which space, when clearly marked
as such, no motor vehicle shall be left standing, parked or stopped except in
taking on or discharging passengers or freight, and then only for such length
of time as is necessary for such purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.360)
   15.   Alleys. No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten (10) feet
of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no
person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position
as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property. The provisions of
this subsection shall not apply to a vehicle parked in any alley which is
eighteen (18) feet wide or less; provided said vehicle is parked to deliver
goods or services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   16.   Ramps. In front of a curb cut or ramp which is located on public or
private property in a manner which blocks access to the curb cut or ramp.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[15])
   17.   In More Than One Space. In any designated parking space so that any
part of the vehicle occupies more than one such space or protrudes beyond the
markings designating such space.
   18.   Center Parking. On the center parking on 2nd Street from the
intersection of Summit Street and 2nd Street west 60 feet. On the center
parking on 2nd Street from the intersection of Main Street and 2nd Street east
60 feet.
(Ord. 179 – May 23 Supp.)
69.08 PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.
   The following regulations shall apply to the establishment and use of
persons with disabilities parking spaces:
   1.   Establishment. Persons with disabilities parking spaces shall be
established and designated in accordance with Chapter 321L of the Code of Iowa
and Iowa Administrative Code, 661-18. No unauthorized person shall establish
any on-street persons with disabilities parking space without first obtaining
Council approval.
   2.   Improper Use. The following uses of a persons with disabilities parking
space, located on either public or private property, constitute improper use of
a persons with disabilities parking permit, which is a violation of this Code
of Ordinances:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321L.4[2])
      A.   Use by an operator of a vehicle not displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit;
      B.   Use by an operator of a vehicle displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit but not being used by a person issued a permit or
being transported in accordance with Section 321L.2[1b] of the Code of Iowa;
      C.   Use by a vehicle in violation of the rules adopted under Section
321L.8 of the Code of Iowa.
   3.   Wheelchair Parking Cones. No person shall use or interfere with a
wheelchair parking cone in violation of the following:
      A.   A person issued a persons with disabilities parking permit must
comply with the requirements of Section 321L.2A (1) of the Code of Iowa when
utilizing a wheelchair parking cone.
      B.   A person shall not interfere with a wheelchair parking cone which is
properly placed under the provisions of Section 321L.2A (1) of the Code of
Iowa.
69.09 TRUCK PARKING LIMITED.
   No person shall park any truck or freight-carrying vehicle in excess of
three-ton gross licensed capacity, excluding what is commonly known as a pickup
truck, on any street, highway or alley within the limits of the City unless
such parking is for the purpose of loading or unloading merchandise, and then
only for the time necessary to do the loading and unloading. Trucks may be
parked in areas designated by the City Council.
69.10 SNOW REMOVAL.
   No person shall park, abandon, or leave unattended any vehicle (including,
but not limited to cars, trucks, boats, trailers, campers, and all forms of
recreational vehicles) on Main Street from Fourth to Second Street and on
Second Street from Main to Summit Street anytime snow accumulations of over 2
inches are predicted or a snow emergency is declared by the City. It shall be
conclusively presumed that any snowfall of two inches or more as officially
predicted or measured at Sioux City, Iowa, creates a snow emergency. The
parking ban shall continue until through the duration of the snow or ice storm
and the 72 hour period after cessation of the storm. The Mayor or designee may
order a snow emergency and cause the same to be publicized.
(Section 69.10 – Ord. 196 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
CHAPTER 70
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
 
70.01 Arrest or Citation            70.04 Parking Violations: Vehicle
                                    Unattended
70.02 Scheduled Violations          70.05 Presumption in Reference to Illegal
                                    Parking
70.03 Parking Violations: Alternate 70.06 Impounding Vehicles
 
70.01 ARREST OR CITATION.
   Whenever a peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provision of the Traffic Code, such officer may:
   1.   Immediate Arrest. Immediately arrest such person and take such person
before a local magistrate, or
   2.   Issue Citation. Without arresting the person, prepare in quintuplicate
a combined traffic citation and complaint as adopted by the Iowa Commissioner
of Public Safety, or issue a uniform citation and complaint utilizing a State-
approved computerized device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.6 & 321.485)
70.02 SCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.
   For violations of the Traffic Code which are designated by Section 805.8A of
the Code of Iowa to be scheduled violations, the scheduled fine for each of
those violations shall be as specified in Section 805.8A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.8 & 805.8A)
70.03 PARKING VIOLATIONS: ALTERNATE.
   Uncontested violations of parking restrictions imposed by this Code of
Ordinances shall be charged upon a simple notice of a fine payable at the
office of the City Clerk. The simple notice of a fine shall be in the amount of
$10.00 for all violations except improper use of a persons with disabilities
parking permit. If such fine is not paid within 30 days, it shall be increased
by $5.00. The simple notice of a fine for improper use of a persons with
disabilities parking permit is $100.00.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1b] & 321L.4[2])
70.04 PARKING VIOLATIONS: VEHICLE UNATTENDED.
   When a vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the Traffic Code,
and the driver is not present, the notice of fine or citation as herein
provided shall be attached to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
70.05 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   In any proceeding charging a standing or parking violation, a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred, shall be raised by proof that:
   1.   Described Vehicle. The particular vehicle described in the information
was parked in violation of the Traffic Code, and
   2.   Registered Owner. The defendant named in the information was the
registered owner at the time in question.
70.06 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   A peace officer is hereby authorized to remove, or cause to be removed, a
vehicle from a street, public alley, public parking lot or highway to the
nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the City, under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
   1.   Disabled Vehicle. When a vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [1])
   2.   Illegally Parked Vehicle. When any vehicle is left unattended and is so
illegally parked as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [1])
   3.   Snow Removal. When any vehicle is left parked in violation of a ban on
parking during snow removal operations.
   4.   Parked Over Limited Time Period. When any vehicle is left parked for a
continuous period of in violation of any limited parking time. If the owner can
be located, the owner shall be given an opportunity to remove the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [1])
   5.   Costs. In addition to the standard penalties provided, the owner or
driver of any vehicle impounded for the violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be required to pay the reasonable cost of towing and
storage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
CHAPTER 75
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND SNOWMOBILES
 
75.01 Purpose                  75.05 Operation of All-Terrain Vehicles
75.02 Definitions              75.06 Negligence
75.03 General Regulations      75.07 Accident Reports
75.04 Operation of Snowmobiles
 
75.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of all-terrain
vehicles and snowmobiles within the City.
75.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “All-terrain vehicle” or “ATV” means a motorized vehicle, with not less
than three and not more than six non-highway tires, that is limited in engine
displacement to less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to
less than 1,200 pounds and that has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled
by the operator and handlebars for steering control.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   2.   “Off-road motorcycle” means a two-wheeled motor vehicle that has a seat
or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering
control and that is intended by the manufacturer for use on natural terrain.
“Off-road motorcycle” includes a motorcycle that was originally issued a
certificate of title and registered for highway use under Chapter 321 of the
Code of Iowa, but which contains design features that enable operation over
natural terrain. An operator of an off-road motorcycle is also subject to the
provisions of this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   3.   “Off-road utility vehicle” means a motorized vehicle, with not less
than four and not more than eight non-highway tires or rubberized tracks, that
has a seat that is of bucket or bench design, not intended to be straddled by
the operator, and a steering wheel or control levers for control. “Off-road
utility vehicle” includes the following vehicles:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
      A.   “Off-road utility vehicle – type 1” includes vehicles with a total
dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less and a width of 50 inches or less.
      B.   “Off-road utility vehicle – type 2” includes vehicles, other than
type 1 vehicles, with a total dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less and a width of
65 inches or less.
      C.   “Off-road utility vehicle – type 3” includes vehicles with a total
dry weight of more than 2,000 pounds or a width of more than 65 inches, or
both.
   An operator of an off-road utility vehicle is also subject to the provisions
of this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
   4.   “Snowmobile” means a motorized vehicle that weighs less than 1,000
pounds, that uses sled-type runners or skis, endless belt-type tread with a
width of 48 inches or less, or any combination of runners, skis, or tread, and
is designed for travel on snow or ice. “Snowmobile” does not include an all-
terrain vehicle that has been altered or equipped with runners, skis, belt-type
tracks, or treads.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.1)
75.03 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   No person shall operate an ATV, off-road motorcycle or off-road utility
vehicle within the City in violation of Chapter 321I of the Code of Iowa or a
snowmobile within the City in violation of the provisions of Chapter 321G of
the Code of Iowa or in violation of rules established by the Natural Resource
Commission of the Department of Natural Resources governing their registration,
equipment and manner of operation.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 321G & Ch. 321I)
75.04 OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES.
   The operators of snowmobiles shall comply with the following restrictions as
to where snowmobiles may be operated within the City:
   1.   Streets. Snowmobiles shall be operated only upon streets which have not
been plowed during the snow season and on such other streets as may be
designated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4a])
   2.   Exceptions. Snowmobiles may be operated on prohibited streets only
under the following circumstances:
      A.   Emergencies. Snowmobiles may be operated on any street in an
emergency during the period of time when and at locations where snow upon the
roadway renders travel by conventional motor vehicles impractical.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4c])
      B.   Direct Crossing. Snowmobiles may make a direct crossing of a
prohibited street provided all of the following occur:
         (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety degrees
(90°) to the direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction
prevents a quick and safe crossing;
         (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
street;
         (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all on-coming traffic
which constitutes an immediate hazard; and
         (4)   In crossing a divided street, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such street with another street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[2])
   3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on an
operating railroad right-of-way. A snowmobile may be driven directly across a
railroad right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any
other provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.13[1h])
   4.   Trails. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on all-terrain vehicle trails
except where so designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4f])
   5.   Parks and Other City Land. Snowmobiles shall not be operated in any
park, playground or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City. A snowmobile shall not be operated on any City land
without a snow cover of at least one-tenth of one inch.
   6.   Sidewalk or Parking. Snowmobiles shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking” except for
purposes of crossing the same to a public street upon which operation is
authorized by this chapter.
75.05 OPERATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   The operators of ATVs shall comply with the following restrictions as to
where ATVs may be operated within the City:
   1.   Streets. ATVs and off-road utility vehicles may be operated on streets
only in accordance with Section 321.234A of the Code of Iowa or on such streets
as may be designated by resolution of the Council for the operation of
registered ATVs or registered off-road utility vehicles. In designating such
streets, the Council may authorize ATVs and off-road utility vehicles to stop
at service stations or convenience stores along a designated street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[1 & 3])
   2.   Trails. ATVs shall not be operated on snowmobile trails except where
designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[4])
   3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. ATVs shall not be operated on an operating
railroad right-of-way. An ATV may be driven directly across a railroad right-
of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any other provisions
of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the established crossing
after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.14[1h])
   4.   Parks and Other City Land. ATVs shall not be operated in any park,
playground or upon any other City-owned property without the express permission
of the City.
   5.   Sidewalk or Parking. ATVs shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking.”
75.06 NEGLIGENCE.
   The owner and operator of an ATV or snowmobile are liable for any injury or
damage occasioned by the negligent operation of the ATV or snowmobile. The
owner of an ATV or snowmobile shall be liable for any such injury or damage
only if the owner was the operator of the ATV or snowmobile at the time the
injury or damage occurred or if the operator had the owner’s consent to operate
the ATV or snowmobile at the time the injury or damage occurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.18 & 321I.19)
75.07 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   Whenever an ATV or snowmobile is involved in an accident resulting in injury
or death to anyone or property damage amounting to $1,500.00 or more, either
the operator or someone acting for the operator shall immediately notify a law
enforcement officer and shall file an accident report, in accordance with State
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.10 & 321I.11)
CHAPTER 76
BICYCLE REGULATIONS
 
76.01 Scope of Regulations            76.08 Riding on Sidewalks
76.02 Traffic Code Applies            76.09 Towing
76.03 Double Riding Restricted        76.10 Improper Riding
76.04 Two Abreast Limit               76.11 Parking
76.05 Speed                           76.12 Equipment Requirements
76.06 Emerging from Alley or Driveway 76.13 Special Penalty
76.07 Carrying Articles
 
76.01 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   These regulations shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street
or upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to
those exceptions stated herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.02 TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of the State declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the traffic code of the City applicable to the driver of a
vehicle, except as to those provisions which by their nature can have no
application. Whenever such person dismounts from a bicycle the person shall be
subject to all regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234)
76.03 DOUBLE RIDING RESTRICTED.
   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234[3 and 4])
76.04 TWO ABREAST LIMIT.
   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles. All bicycles ridden on the roadway shall be kept to the right and
shall be operated as near as practicable to the right-hand edge of the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.05 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.06 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said
sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.07 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.08 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   The following shall apply to riding bicycles on sidewalks:
   1.   Business District. No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk
within the Business District, as defined in Section 60.02(1) of this Code of
Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
   2.   Other Locations. When signs are erected on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, no person shall
disobey the signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
   3.   Yield Right-of-Way. Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.09 TOWING.
   It is unlawful for any person riding a bicycle to be towed or to tow any
other vehicle upon the streets of the City unless the vehicle is manufactured
for such use.
76.10 IMPROPER RIDING.
   No person shall ride a bicycle in an irregular or reckless manner such as
zigzagging, stunting, speeding, or otherwise so as to disregard the safety of
the operator or others.
76.11 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.12 EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Every person riding a bicycle shall be responsible for providing and using
equipment as provided herein:
   1.   Lamps Required. Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a
distance of at least 300 feet to the front and with a lamp on the rear
exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 300 feet to the rear except
that a red reflector on the rear, of a type which shall be visible from all
distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful
upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle, may be used in lieu of a rear
light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.397)
   2.   Brakes Required. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which
will enable the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean
pavement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.13 SPECIAL PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter may, in lieu of the
scheduled fine for bicyclists or standard penalty provided for violations of
the Code of Ordinances, allow the person’s bicycle to be impounded by the City
for not less than five (5) days for the first offense, ten (10) days for a
second offense and thirty (30) days for a third offense.
CHAPTER 77
OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ON CITY STREETS
 
77.01 Purpose                           77.06 Hours of Operation
77.02 Definition                        77.07 Negligence
77.03 Operation of Golf Carts Permitted 77.08 Financial Responsibility
77.04 Unlawful Operation                77.09 Accident Reports
77.05 Equipment                         77.10 Penalty
 
77.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to permit the operation of golf carts on
certain streets in the City, as authorized by Section 321.247 of the Code of
Iowa, as amended. This chapter applies whenever a golf cart is operated on any
street or alley of the City of Pierson, Iowa.
77.02 DEFINITION.  
   “Golf cart” means a three or four wheeled recreational vehicle generally
used for transportation of person(s) in the sport of golf, that is either
electric powered or gas powered with an engine displacement of less than 800
cubic centimeters and total dry weight of less than 800 pounds.
77.03 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS PERMITTED.  
   Golf carts may be operated upon streets of the City by persons possessing a
valid Iowa operator’s license and who is at least sixteen (16) years of age.
All traffic regulations applicable to the operation of motor vehicles on
streets, roads, and highways of the State of Iowa and the City of Pierson shall
apply to the operation of a golf cart on the streets and alleys of the City of
Pierson.
77.04 UNLAWFUL OPERATION.  
   1.   No golf carts shall be operated or parked upon City sidewalks.
   2.   No person shall operate a golf cart in a careless, reckless or
negligent manner endangering the person or property of another or causing
injury or damage to same.
   3.   No golf cart shall carry more passengers than the golf cart is designed
for.
   4.   Golf carts shall not be operated upon that portion of a street right-
of-way between the curb or edge of street paving and the sidewalk, referred to
as “the parking.”
   5.   Golf carts shall not be operated on any recreational, bike or walking
trails, unless the trail is specifically designed to allow use of motor
vehicles.
   6.   No golf cart shall be operated upon a City street which is a primary
road extension through the City but shall be allowed to cross a City street
which is a primary road extension through the City.
77.05 EQUIPMENT.  
   Golf carts operated upon City streets shall be equipped with a minimum of
the following safety features.
   1.   A slow moving vehicle sign.
   2.   A bicycle safety flag, the top of which shall be a minimum of five (5)
feet from ground level.
   3.   Adequate brakes.
77.06 HOURS OF OPERATION.  
`Golf carts may be operated on City streets only between sunrise and sunset.
77.07 NEGLIGENCE.  
   The owner and operator of a golf cart is liable for any injury or damage
occasioned by the negligent operation of a golf cart. The owner of a golf cart
shall be liable for any such injury or damage only if the owner was the
operator of the golf cart at the time the injury or damage occurred or if the
operator had the owner’s consent to operate the golf cart at the time the
injury or damaged occurred.
77.08 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.  
   The owner or operator of any golf cart must maintain insurance as per Iowa
Code Section 321A.21 and provide current proof of financial responsibility upon
request of any law enforcement officer.
77.09 ACCIDENT REPORTS.  
   Whenever a golf cart is involved in an accident resulting in injury or death
to anyone or property damage amounting to one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00) or more, either the operator or someone acting for the operator
shall immediately notify a law enforcement officer and shall fine an accident
report, in accordance with State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.266)
77.10 PENALTY.  
   A person who violates this chapter is guilty of a municipal infraction under
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Ch. 77 – Ord. 165 – Dec. 19 Supp.)
CHAPTER 90
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
90.01 Definitions                   90.10 Installation of Water Service Pipe
90.02 Superintendent’s Duties     90.11 Responsibility for Water Service Pipe
90.03 Mandatory Connections         90.12 Failure to Maintain
90.04 Abandoned Connections         90.13 Curb Valve
90.05 Application for Service       90.14 Interior Valve
90.06 Compliance with Plumbing Code 90.15 Inspection and Approval
90.07 Plumber Required              90.16 Completion by the City
90.08 Excavations                   90.17 Shutting off Water Supply
90.09 Tapping Mains                 90.18 Operation of Curb Valve and Hydrants
 
90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms are defined for use in the chapters in this Code of
Ordinances pertaining to the Water Service System:
   1.   “Combined service account” means a customer service account for the
provision of two or more utility services.
   2.   “Customer” means, in addition to any person receiving water service
from the City, the owner of the property served, and as between such parties
the duties, responsibilities, liabilities and obligations hereinafter imposed
shall be joint and several.
   3.   “Superintendent” means the Superintendent of the City water system or
any duly authorized assistant, agent or representative.
   4.   “Water main” means a water supply pipe provided for public or community
use.
   5.   “Water service pipe” means the pipe from the water main to the building
served.
   6.   “Water system” or “water works” means all public facilities for
securing, collecting, storing, pumping, treating, and distributing water.
90.02 SUPERINTENDENT’S DUTIES.  
   The Superintendent shall supervise the installation of water service pipes
and their connection to the water main and enforce all regulations pertaining
to water services in the City in accordance with this chapter. This chapter
shall apply to all replacements of existing water service pipes as well as to
new ones. The Superintendent shall make such rules, not in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter, as may be needed for the detailed operation of the
water system, subject to the approval of the Council. In the event of an
emergency the Superintendent may make temporary rules for the protection of the
system until due consideration by the Council may be had.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
90.03 MANDATORY CONNECTIONS.
   The owners of any houses, buildings or structures used for human occupancy,
employment or use, situated within the City and abutting on any street, alley
or right-of-way in which there is located a public water main are hereby
required to connect such facilities to the City’s public water system in
accordance with the provisions of these Water Service chapters within sixty
(60) days after the date of official notice to do so, provided that said public
water main is located within one hundred (100) feet of the property line of
such owner.
90.04 ABANDONED CONNECTIONS.
   When an existing water service is abandoned or a service is renewed with a
new tap in the main, all abandoned connections with the mains shall be turned
off at the corporation stop and made absolutely watertight.
90.05 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   Before any person makes a connection with the public water system, an
application for service must be made to the City. The application for service
shall include the address of the property, the name of the property owner, the
name and address of the person who will do the work, and the general uses of
the water. The property owner shall complete installation and connection of the
service line to the public water system within sixty (60) days after the
application for service, except that when such time period is inequitable or
unfair due to conditions beyond the control of the property owner, an extension
of time within which to complete the work may be granted.
90.06 COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE.
   The installation of any water service pipe and any connection with the water
system shall comply with all pertinent and applicable provisions, whether
regulatory, procedural or enforcement provisions, of the State Plumbing Code.
90.07 PLUMBER REQUIRED.
   All installations of water service pipes and connections to the water system
shall be made by a State-licensed plumber.
90.08 EXCAVATIONS.
   All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required in making a connection
shall be performed in accordance with the State Plumbing Code and/or the
provisions of
Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
90.09 TAPPING MAINS.
   All taps into water mains shall be made by or under the direct supervision
of the Superintendent and in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Independent Services. No more than one house, building, or premises
shall be supplied from one tap unless special written permission is obtained
from the Superintendent and unless provision is made so that each house,
building, or premises may be shut off independently of the other.
   2.   Sizes and Location of Taps. All mains six inches or less in diameter
shall receive no larger than a three-fourths-inch tap. All mains of over six
inches in diameter shall receive no larger than a one-inch tap. Where a larger
connection than a one-inch tap is desired, two or more small taps or saddles
shall be used, as the Superintendent shall order. All taps in the mains shall
be made in the top half of the pipe, at least 18 inches apart. No main shall be
tapped nearer than two feet of the joint in the main.
   3.   Corporation Stop. A brass corporation stop, of the pattern and weight
approved by the Superintendent, shall be inserted in every tap in the main. The
corporation stop in the main shall be of the same size as the service pipe.
   4.   Location Record. An accurate and dimensional sketch showing the exact
location of the tap shall be filed with the Superintendent in such form as the
Superintendent shall require.
90.10 INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE PIPE.
   Water service pipes from the main to the meter setting shall be Type K
copper. The use of any other pipe material for the service line shall first be
approved by the Superintendent. Pipe must be laid sufficiently waving, and to
such depth, as to prevent rupture from settlement or freezing.
90.11 RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER SERVICE PIPE.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the water service pipe from the main to the building served
shall be borne by the owner.
   If a sampling station is installed on the water service pipe, the City shall
be responsible for the costs and expenses incident to the installation,
connection, and maintenance of the water service pipe from the main to the
sampling station and the owner shall be responsible for the costs and expenses
incident to the installation, connection, and maintenance of the water service
pipe from the sampling station to the building served.
   The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly
or indirectly be occasioned by the installation or maintenance of said water
service pipe.
90.12 FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
   When any portion of the water service pipe which is the responsibility of
the property owner becomes defective or creates a nuisance and the owner fails
to correct such nuisance the City may do so and assess the costs thereof to the
property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a & h])
90.13 CURB VALVE.
   There shall be installed within the public right-of-way a main shut-off
valve on the water service pipe of a pattern approved by the Superintendent.
The shut-off valve shall be constructed to be visible and even with the
pavement or ground.
90.14 INTERIOR VALVE.
   There shall be installed a shut-off valve on every service pipe inside the
building as close to the entrance of the pipe within the building as possible
and so located that the water can be shut off conveniently. Where one service
pipe supplies more than one customer within the building, there shall be
separate valves for each such customer so that service may be shut off for one
without interfering with service to the others.
90.15 INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   All water service pipes and their connections to the water system must be
inspected and approved in writing by the Superintendent before they are
covered, and the Superintendent shall keep a record of such approvals. If the
Superintendent refuses to approve the work, the plumber or property owner must
proceed immediately to correct the work. Every person who uses or intends to
use the municipal water system shall permit the Superintendent to enter the
premises to inspect or make necessary alterations or repairs at all reasonable
hours and on proof of authority.
90.16 COMPLETION BY THE CITY.
   Should any excavation be left open or only partly refilled for twenty-four
(24) hours after the water service pipe is installed and connected with the
water system, or should the work be improperly done, the City shall have the
right to finish or correct the work, and the Council shall assess the costs to
the property owner or the plumber. If the plumber is assessed, the plumber must
pay the costs before receiving another permit. If the property owner is
assessed, such assessment may be collected with and in the same manner as
general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a & h])
90.17 SHUTTING OFF WATER SUPPLY.
   The Superintendent may shut off the supply of water to any customer because
of any violation of the regulations contained in these Water Service System
chapters that is not being contested in good faith. The supply shall not be
turned on again until all violations have been corrected and the Superintendent
has ordered the water to be turned on.
90.18 OPERATION OF CURB VALVE AND HYDRANTS.
   It is unlawful for any person except the Superintendent to turn water on at
the curb valve, and no person, unless specifically authorized by the City,
shall open or attempt to draw water from any fire hydrant for any purpose
whatsoever.
CHAPTER 91
WATER METERS
 
91.01 Purpose                           91.05 Meter Setting
91.02 Water Use Metered                 91.06 Meter Costs
91.03 Fire Sprinkler Systems; Exception 91.07 Meter Repairs
91.04 Location of Meters                91.08 Shutting Off Water Supply
 
91.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to encourage the conservation of water and
facilitate the equitable distribution of charges for water service among
customers.
91.02 WATER USE METERED.
   All water furnished customers shall be measured through meters furnished by
the City and installed by the property owner. All meters must be the cellular
read type.
(Ord. 162 – Dec. 19 Supp.)
91.03 FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS – EXCEPTION.
   Fire sprinkler systems may be connected to water mains by direct connection
without meters under the direct supervision of the Superintendent. No open
connection can be incorporated in the system, and there shall be no valves
except a main control valve at the entrance to the building which must be
sealed open.
91.04 LOCATION OF METERS.
   All meters shall be so located that they are easily accessible to meter
readers and repairmen and protected from freezing.
91.05 METER SETTING.
   The property owner shall provide all necessary piping and fittings for
proper setting of the meter including a valve on the discharge side of the
meter. Meter pits may be used only upon approval of the Superintendent and
shall be of a design and construction approved by the Superintendent.
91.06 METER COSTS.
   The full cost of the water meter furnished by the City shall be paid to the
City by the property owner or, at the sole option of the City, the property
owner may be required to purchase and install the meter and any such meter must
be approved by the Superintendent.
91.07 METER REPAIRS.
   Whenever a water meter is found to be out of order the City Clerk shall send
notice to the property owner requiring the property owner to have it repaired.
91.08 SHUTTING OFF WATER SUPPLY.
   The Superintendent may shut off the supply of water to any customer because
of any violation of the regulations contained in this water meters chapter that
is not being contested in good faith. The supply shall not be turned on again
until all violations have been corrected and the Superintendent has ordered the
water to be turned on.
(Ord. 195 – Apr. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 92
WATER RATES
 
92.01 Service Charges           92.06 Lien for Nonpayment
92.02 Rates of Service          92.07 Lien Exemption
92.03 Rates Outside the City    92.08 Lien Notice
92.04 Billing for Water Service 92.09 Utility Deposits
92.05 Service Discontinued      92.10 Temporary Vacancy
 
92.01 SERVICE CHARGES.
   Each customer shall pay for water service provided by the City based upon
use of water as determined by meters provided for in Chapter 91. Each location,
building, premises or connection shall be considered a separate and distinct
customer whether owned or controlled by the same person or not.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.02 RATES OF SERVICE.
   Water service shall be furnished at the following monthly rates within the
City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Basic Service Charge. A minimum basic service charge of $16.48 per
month.
   2.   Usage Charge. An additional usage charge as follows:
 
Gallons Use Per Month Rate
First 20,000          $2.50 per 1,000 gallons
20001-30000           $1.50 per 1,000 gallons
30001 and Over        $1.00 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Section 92.02 – Ord. 195 – Apr. 24 Supp.)
92.03 RATES OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   Water service shall be provided to any customer located outside the
corporate limits of the City which the City has agreed to serve at rates 150
percent of the rates provided in Section
92.02. No such customer, however, will be served unless the customer shall have
signed a service contract agreeing to be bound by the ordinances, rules, and
regulations applying to water service established by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4 and 384.84)
92.04 BILLING FOR WATER SERVICE.
   Water service shall be billed as part of a combined service account, payable
in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Bills Issued. The Clerk shall prepare and issue bills for combined
service accounts on a monthly basis.
   2.   Bills Payable. Bills for combined service accounts shall be due and
payable at the office of the Clerk by twentieth day of each month.
   3.   Late Payment Penalty. Bills not paid when due shall be considered
delinquent. A one-time late payment penalty of $25.00 shall be added to each
delinquent bill.
92.05 SERVICE DISCONTINUED.
   Water service to delinquent customers shall be discontinued in accordance
with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Notice. The Clerk shall notify each delinquent customer that service
will be discontinued if payment of the combined service account, including
charges and fees, is not received by the date specified in the notice of
delinquency. Such notice shall be sent by ordinary mail to the customer in
whose name the delinquent charges and fees were incurred and shall inform the
customer of the nature of the delinquency and afford the customer the
opportunity for a hearing prior to discontinuance.
   2.   Notice to Landlords. If the customer is a tenant, and if the owner or
landlord of the property or premises has made a written request for notice, the
notice of delinquency shall also be given to the owner or landlord.
   3.   Hearing. If a hearing is requested by noon of the day preceding the
shut off, the Mayor shall conduct an informal hearing and shall make a
determination as to whether the disconnection is justified. The customer has
the right to appeal the Mayor’s decision to the Council, and if the Council
finds that disconnection is justified, then such disconnection shall be made,
unless payment has been received.
   4.   Fees. If any account is not paid by the 5th day of the month following
the due date, the account shall be charged a non-payment fee of fifty dollars
($50), and the service to such owner or person so supplied with the utility
shall be discontinued on or after the 5th day of that particular month. In
order for the service to be restored to the customer, the customer must pay in
full all delinquent and non-delinquent charges and fees.
(Ord. 195 – Apr. 24 Supp.)
92.06 LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
   The owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof shall be
jointly and severally liable for water service charges to the premises. Water
service charges remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon
the property or premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the
County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.07 LIEN EXEMPTION.  
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Water Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall not apply to
charges for water service to a residential or commercial rental property where
water service is separately metered and the rates or charges for the water
service are paid directly to the City by the tenant, if the landlord gives
written notice to the City that the property is residential or commercial
rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or charges. The
City may require a deposit not exceeding the usual cost of 90 days of such
services to be paid to the City. When the tenant moves from the rental
property, the City shall refund the deposit if all service charges are paid in
full. The lien exemption does not apply to delinquent charges for repairs
related to any of the services.
   2.   Other Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall also not apply
to the charges for any of the services of sewer systems, storm water drainage
systems, sewage treatment, solid waste collection, and solid waste disposal for
a residential rental property where the charge is paid directly to the City by
the tenant, if the landlord gives written notice to the City that the property
is residential rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or
charges for such service. The City may require a deposit not exceeding the
usual cost of 90 days of such services to be paid to the City. When the tenant
moves from the rental property, the City shall refund the deposit if all
service charges are paid in full. The lien exemption does not apply to
delinquent charges for repairs related to any of the services.
   3.   Written Notice. The landlord’s written notice shall contain the name of
the tenant responsible for charges, the address of the residential or
commercial rental property that the tenant is to occupy, and the date that the
occupancy begins. Upon receipt, the City shall acknowledge the notice and
deposit. A change in tenant for a residential rental property shall require a
new written notice to be given to the City within 30 business days of the
change in tenant. A change in tenant for a commercial rental property shall
require a new written notice to be given to the City within 10 business days of
the change in tenant. A change in the ownership of the residential rental
property shall require written notice of such change to be given to the City
within 30 business days of the completion of the change of ownership. A change
in the ownership of the commercial rental property shall require written notice
of such change to be given to the City within 10 business days of the
completion of the change of ownership.
   4.   Mobile Homes, Modular Homes, and Manufactured Homes. A lien for
nonpayment of utility services described in Subsections 1 and 2 of this section
shall not be placed upon a premises that is a mobile home, modular home, or
manufactured home if the mobile home, modular home, or manufactured home is
owned by a tenant of and located in a mobile home park or manufactured home
community and the mobile home park or manufactured home community owner or
manager is the account holder, unless the lease agreement specifies that the
tenant is responsible for payment of a portion of the rates or charges billed
to the account holder.
92.08 LIEN NOTICE.
   A lien for delinquent water service charges shall not be certified to the
County Treasurer unless prior written notice of intent to certify a lien is
given to the customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred. If
the customer is a tenant and if the owner or landlord of the property or
premises has made a written request for notice, the notice shall also be given
to the owner or landlord. The notice shall be sent to the appropriate persons
by ordinary mail not less than 30 days prior to certification of the lien to
the County Treasurer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.09 UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   There shall be required from every customer a deposit intended to guarantee
the payment of bills for utility service, as follows:
   Renters - $150.00
   Homeowners - $100.00
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.10 TEMPORARY VACANCY.
   A property owner may request water service be temporarily discontinued and
shut off at the curb valve when the property is expected to be vacant for an
extended period of time. During a period when service is temporarily
discontinued as provided herein there shall be no minimum service charge. The
City will not drain pipes or pull meters for temporary vacancies.
CHAPTER 93
MUNICIPAL WELL PROTECTION
 
93.01 Definitions             93.03 Deep Well Protection
93.02 Shallow Well Protection 93.04 Nonconforming Uses
 
93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Deep public well” means a public well located and constructed in such
a manner that there is a continuous layer of low permeability soil or rock at
least five (5) feet thick located at least twenty-five (25) feet below the
normal ground surface and above the aquifer from which the water is drawn.
   2.   “Shallow public well” means a public well located and constructed in
such a manner that there is not a continuous layer of low permeability soil or
rock at least five (5) feet thick located at least twenty-five (25) feet below
the normal ground surface.
93.02 SHALLOW WELL PROTECTION.
   No structure, facility, or activity of the following enumerated types shall
be located or occur within the distances hereinafter set forth for each
structure or facility from a shallow public well within the City.
   1.   Well house floor drains – 5 feet;
   2.   Water treatment plant wastes – 50 feet;
   3.   Sanitary and industrial discharges – 200 feet;
   4.   Floor drains from pump house to surface:
      A.   None within 5 feet;
      B.   5 to 10 feet – water main materials enclosed in concrete permitted;
      C.   10 to 25 feet – must be water main material;
      D.   25 to 75 feet – must be watertight sewer pipe;
   5.   Floor drains to sewer, water plant wastes, storm or sanitary sewers or
drains:
      A.   None permitted within 25 feet;
      B.   25 to 75 feet – must be water main material;
      C.   75 to 200 feet – must be watertight sewer pipe;
   6.   Force mains:
      A.   None permitted within 75 feet;
      B.   75 to 200 feet – must be water main materials;
   7.   Land application of solid waste – 200 feet;
   8.   Irrigation of wastewater – 200 feet;
   9.   Concrete vaults and septic tanks – 200 feet;
   10.   Mechanical wastewater treatment plants – 400 feet;
   11.   Cesspools and earth pit privies – 400 feet;
   12.   Soil absorption fields – 400 feet;
   13.   Lagoons – 1,000 feet;
   14.   Chemicals:
      A.   Application to ground surface – 200 feet;
      B.   Above ground storage – 200 feet;
      C.   On or underground storage – 200 feet;
   15.   Animal pasturage – 50 feet;
   16.   Animal enclosure – 200 feet;
   17.   Animal wastes:
      A.   Land application of solids – 200 feet;
      B.   Land application of liquid or slurry – 200 feet;
      C.   Storage tank – 200 feet;
      D.   Solids stockpile – 400 feet;
      E.   Storage basin or lagoon – 400 feet;
   18.   Earthen silage storage trench or pit – 200 feet;
   19.   Basements, pits, sumps – 10 feet;
   20.   Flowing streams or other surface water bodies – 50 feet;
   21.   Cisterns – 100 feet;
   22.   Cemeteries – 200 feet;
   23.   Private wells – 400 feet;
   24.   Solid waste disposal sites – 1,000 feet.
93.03 DEEP WELL PROTECTION.
   No structure or facility of the following enumerated and listed types shall
be located within the distances hereinafter set forth from a deep public well
within the City.
   1.   Well house floor drains – 5 feet;
   2.   Water treatment plant wastes – 50 feet;
   3.   Sanitary and industrial discharges – 400 feet;
   4.   Floor drains from pump house to surface:
      A.   None within 5 feet;
      B.   5 to 10 feet – water main materials enclosed in concrete permitted;
      C.   10 to 25 feet – must be water main material;
      D.   25 to 75 feet – must be watertight sewer pipe;
   5.   Floor drains to sewer, water plant wastes, storm or sanitary sewers or
drains:
      A.   None permitted within 25 feet;
      B.   25 to 75 feet – must be water main material;
      C.   75 to 200 feet – must be watertight sewer pipe;
   6.   Force mains:
      A.   None permitted within 75 feet;
      B.   75 to 400 feet – must be water main materials;
   7.   Land application of solid waste – 100 feet;
   8.   Irrigation of wastewater – 100 feet;
   9.   Concrete vaults and septic tanks – 100 feet;
   10.   Mechanical wastewater treatment plants – 200 feet;
   11.   Cesspools and earth pit privies – 200 feet;
   12.   Soil absorption fields – 200 feet;
   13.   Lagoons – 400 feet;
   14.   Chemicals:
      A.   Application to ground surface – 100 feet;
      B.   Above ground storage – 100 feet;
      C.   On or underground storage – 200 feet;
   15.   Animal pasturage – 50 feet;
   16.   Animal enclosure – 100 feet;
   17.   Animal wastes:
      A.   Land application of solids – 100 feet;
      B.   Land application of liquid or slurry – 100 feet;
      C.   Storage tank – 100 feet;
      D.   Solids stockpile – 200 feet;
      E.   Storage basin or lagoon – 400 feet;
   18.   Earthen silage storage trench or pit – 100 feet;
   19.   Basements, pits, sumps – 10 feet;
   20.   Flowing streams or other surface water bodies – 50 feet;
   21.   Cisterns – 50 feet;
   22.   Cemeteries – 50 feet;
   23.   Private wells – 200 feet;
   24.   Solid waste disposal sites – 1,000 feet.
93.04 NONCONFORMING USES.
   The use of structures or facilities existing as of the date of adoption of
the ordinance codified in this chapter may be continued even though such use
may not conform with the regulations of this chapter, i.e., such structures or
facilities may be located within the distances set forth unless they present a
serious health hazard. However, such structures or facilities not in
conformance with the terms of this chapter may not be enlarged, extended,
reconstructed or substituted subsequent to such date.
CHAPTER 95
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
 
95.01 Purpose                   95.06 Service Outside the City
95.02 Definitions               95.07 Right of Entry
95.03 Superintendent            95.08 Use of Easements
95.04 Prohibited Acts           95.09 Special Penalties
95.05 Sewer Connection Required
 
95.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the chapters of this Code of Ordinances pertaining to
Sanitary Sewers is to establish rules and regulations governing the treatment
and disposal of sanitary sewage within the City in order to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in these chapters, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “B.O.D.” (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand) means the quantity of
oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five (5) days at twenty degrees (20º) C, expressed in
milligrams per liter or parts per million.
   2.   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the
building sewer, beginning five (5) feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of
the building wall.
   3.   “Building sewer” means that part of the horizontal piping from the
building wall to its connection with the main sewer or the primary treatment
portion of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system conveying the
drainage of one building site.
   4.   “Combined sewer” means a sewer receiving both surface run-off and
sewage.
   5.   “Customer” means any person responsible for the production of domestic,
commercial, or industrial waste which is directly or indirectly discharged into
the public sewer system.
   6.   “Garbage” means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial
preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage,
and sale of produce.
   7.   “Industrial wastes” means the liquid wastes from industrial
manufacturing processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   8.   “Inspector” means the person duly authorized by the Council to inspect
and approve the installation of building sewers and their connections to the
public sewer system; and to inspect such sewage as may be discharged therefrom.
   9.   “Natural outlet” means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch,
lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   10.   “On-site wastewater treatment and disposal system” means all equipment
and devices necessary for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment,
and disposal of wastewater from four or fewer dwelling units or other
facilities serving the equivalent of fifteen persons (1500 gpd) or less.
   11.   “pH” means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen
ions in grams per liter of solution.
   12.   “Public sewer” means a sewer in which all owners of abutting
properties have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   13.   “Sanitary sewage” means sewage discharging from the sanitary
conveniences of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office
buildings, factories, or institutions, and free from storm, surface water, and
industrial waste.
   14.   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer which carries sewage and to which
storm, surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   15.   “Sewage” means a combination of the water-carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments,
together with such ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   16.   “Sewage treatment plant” means any arrangement of devices and
structures used for treating sewage.
   17.   “Sewage works” or “sewage system” means all facilities for collecting,
pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage.
   18.   “Sewer” means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   19.   “Sewer service charges” means any and all charges, rates or fees
levied against and payable by customers, as consideration for the servicing of
said customers by said sewer system.
   20.   “Slug” means any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which
in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for
any period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5)
times the average 24-hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   21.   “Storm drain” or “storm sewer” means a sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   22.   “Superintendent” means the Superintendent of sewage works and/or of
water pollution control of the City or any authorized deputy, agent, or
representative.
   23.   “Suspended solids” means solids that either float on the surface of,
or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are
removable by laboratory filtering.
   24.   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
95.03 SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Superintendent shall exercise the following powers and duties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Operation and Maintenance. Operate and maintain the City sewage system.
   2.   Inspection and Tests. Conduct necessary inspections and tests to assure
compliance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
   3.   Records. Maintain a complete and accurate record of all sewers, sewage
connections and manholes constructed showing the location and grades thereof.
95.04 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall do, or allow, any of the following:
   1.   Damage Sewer System. Maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the sewer system.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
   2.   Surface Run-off or Groundwater. Connect a roof downspout, sump pump,
exterior foundation drain, areaway drain, or other source of surface run-off or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   3.   Manholes. Open or enter any manhole of the sewer system, except by
authority of the Superintendent.
   4.   Objectionable Wastes. Place or deposit in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the City, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other
objectionable waste.
   5.   Septic Tanks. Construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage
except as provided in these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
   6.   Untreated Discharge. Discharge to any natural outlet within the City,
or in any area under its jurisdiction, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes,
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
95.05 SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owners of any houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in
the future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer, are hereby required
to install, at such owner’s expense, suitable toilet facilities therein and a
building sewer connecting such facilities directly with the proper public
sewer, and to maintain the same all in accordance with the provisions of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters, such compliance to be completed within sixty (60) days
after date of official notice from the City to do so provided that said public
sewer is located within one hundred fifty (150) feet of the property line of
such owner and is of such design as to receive and convey by gravity such
sewage as may be conveyed to it. Billing for sanitary sewer service will begin
the date of official notice to connect to the public sewer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
95.06 SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   The owners of property outside the corporate limits of the City so situated
that it may be served by the City sewer system may apply to the Council for
permission to connect to the public sewer upon the terms and conditions
stipulated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 & 3])
95.07 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
The Superintendent or representatives shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper,
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
95.08 USE OF EASEMENTS.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
95.09 SPECIAL PENALTIES.
   The following special penalty provisions shall apply to violations of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters:
   1.   Notice of Violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of
these chapters except subsections 1, 3, and 4 of Section
95.04, shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   2.   Continuing Violations. Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided for in subsection 1 hereof shall be in violation
of this Code of Ordinances. Each day in which any such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   3.   Liability Imposed. Any person violating any of the provisions of these
chapters shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the City by reason of such violation.
CHAPTER 96
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
 
96.01 Application for Service 96.06 Sewer Tap
96.02 Plumber Required        96.07 Inspection Required
96.03 Excavations             96.08 Property Owner’s Responsibility
96.04 Connection Requirements 96.09 Abatement of Violations
96.05 Interceptors Required
 
96.01 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   No person shall make any connection to the public sewer system without first
making an application for service to the City. The application for service
shall set forth the location and description of the property to be connected
with the sewer system and the purpose for which the sewer is to be used, and
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information
considered pertinent. The property owner shall complete construction and
connection of the building sewer to the public sewer within sixty (60) days
after the application for service, except that when a property owner makes
sufficient showing that due to conditions beyond the owner’s control or
peculiar hardship, such time period is inequitable or unfair, an extension of
time within which to comply with the provisions herein may be granted.
96.02 PLUMBER REQUIRED.
   All installations of building sewers and connections to the public sewer
shall be made by a State-licensed plumber.
96.03 EXCAVATIONS.
   All trench work, excavation and backfilling required for the installation of
a building sewer shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the
State Plumbing Code and the provisions of
Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
96.04 CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   Any connection with a public sanitary sewer must be made under the direct
supervision of the Superintendent and in accordance with the following:
   1.   Old Building Sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test conducted by
the owner and observed by the Superintendent, to meet all requirements of this
chapter.
   2.   Separate Building Sewers. A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every occupied building; except where one building stands
at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or
can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court,
yard, or driveway. In such cases the building sewer from the front building may
be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building
sewer.
   3.   Installation. The installation and connection of the building sewer to
the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the State Plumbing Code
and applicable rules and regulations of the City. All such connections shall be
made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
   4.   Water Lines. When possible, building sewers should be laid at least 10
feet horizontally from a water service. The horizontal separation may be less,
provided the water service line is located at one side and at least 12 inches
above the top of the building sewer.
   5.   Size. Building sewers shall be sized for the peak expected sewage flow
from the building with a minimum building sewer size of four inches.
   6.   Alignment and Grade. All building sewers shall be laid to a straight
line to meet the following:
      A.   Recommended grade at one-fourth inch per foot.
      B.   Minimum grade of one-eighth inch per foot.
      C.   Minimum velocity of two feet per second with the sewer half full.
      D.   Any deviation in alignment or grade shall be made only with the
written approval of the Superintendent and shall be made only with approved
fittings.
   7.   Depth. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. The depth of cover above the
sewer shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost.
   8.   Sewage Lifts. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low
to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such
drain shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the
building sewer.
   9.   Pipe Specifications. Building sewer pipe shall be free from flaws,
splits, or breaks. Materials shall be as specified in the State Plumbing Code
except that the building sewer pipe, from the property line to the public
sewer, shall comply with the current edition of one of the following:
      A.   Clay sewer pipe – A.S.T.M. C-700 (extra strength).
      B.   Extra heavy cast iron soil pipe – A.S.T.M. A-74.
      C.   Ductile iron water pipe – A.W.W.A. C-151.
      D.   P.V.C. – SDR26 – A.S.T.M. D-3034.
   10.   Bearing Walls. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to, or within
three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be weakened.
   11.   Jointing. Fittings, type of joint and jointing material shall be
compatible with the type of pipe used, subject to the approval of the
Superintendent. Solvent-welded joints are not permitted.
   12.   Unstable Soil. No sewer connection shall be laid so that it is exposed
when crossing any watercourse. Where an old watercourse must of necessity be
crossed or where there is any danger of undermining or settlement, cast iron
soil pipe or vitrified clay sewer pipe thoroughly encased in concrete shall be
required for such crossings. Such encasement shall extend at least six inches
on all sides of the pipe. The cast iron pipe or encased clay pipe shall rest on
firm, solid material at either end.
   13.   Preparation of Basement or Crawl Space. No connection for any
residence, business or other structure with any sanitary sewer shall be made
unless the basement floor is poured, or in the case of a building with a slab
or crawl space, unless the ground floor is installed with the area adjacent to
the foundation of such building
   14.   cleared of debris and backfilled. The backfill shall be well compacted
and graded so that the drainage is away from the foundation. Prior to the time
the basement floor is poured, or the first floor is installed in buildings
without basements, the sewer shall be plugged and the plug shall be sealed by
the Superintendent. Any accumulation of water in any excavation or basement
during construction and prior to connection to the sanitary sewer shall be
removed by means other than draining into the sanitary sewer.
96.05 INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
   Grease, oil, sludge and sand interceptors shall be provided by gas and
service stations, convenience stores, car washes, garages, and other facilities
when, in the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of such wastes that contain grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable waste, sand or other harmful ingredients. Such interceptors shall not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. When required, such
interceptors shall be installed in accordance with the following:
   1.   Design and Location. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity
as specified in the State Plumbing Code, to be approved by the Superintendent,
and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   2.   Construction Standards. The interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious material capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped
with easily removable covers that shall be gastight and watertight.
   3.   Maintenance. All such interceptors shall be maintained by the owner at
the owner’s expense and shall be kept in continuously efficient operations at
all times.
96.06 SEWER TAP.
   Connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the
“Y” branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If no properly
located “Y” branch is available, a saddle “Y” shall be installed at the
location specified by the Superintendent. The public sewer shall be tapped with
a tapping machine and a saddle appropriate to the type of public sewer shall be
glued or attached with a gasket and stainless steel clamps to the sewer. At no
time shall a building sewer be constructed so as to enter a manhole unless
special written permission is received from the Superintendent and in
accordance with the Superintendent’s direction if such connection is approved.
96.07 INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   All connections with the sanitary sewer system before being covered shall be
inspected and approved, in writing, by the Superintendent. As soon as all pipe
work from the public sewer to inside the building has been completed, and
before any backfilling is done, the Superintendent shall be notified and the
Superintendent shall inspect and test the work as to workmanship and material;
no sewer pipe laid under ground shall be covered or trenches filled until after
the sewer has been so inspected and approved. If the Superintendent refuses to
approve the work, the plumber or owner must proceed immediately to correct the
work.
96.08 PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
96.09 ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   Construction or maintenance of building sewer lines whether located upon the
private property of any owner or in the public right-of-way, which construction
or maintenance is in violation of any of the requirements of this chapter,
shall be corrected, at the owner’s expense, within thirty (30) days after date
of official notice from the Council of such violation. If not made within such
time the Council shall, in addition to the other penalties herein provided,
have the right to finish and correct the work and assess the cost thereof to
the property owner. Such assessment shall be collected with and in the same
manner as general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3])
CHAPTER 97
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
 
97.01 Storm Water              97.05 Restricted Discharges; Powers
97.02 Surface Waters Exception 97.06 Special Facilities
97.03 Prohibited Discharges    97.07 Control Manholes
97.04 Restricted Discharges    97.08 Testing of Wastes
 
97.01 STORM WATER.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, groundwater, roof run-off, sub-surface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer. Storm
water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as
are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process waters may be discharged on approval of the Superintendent, to a storm
sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
97.02 SURFACE WATERS EXCEPTION.
   Special permits for discharging surface waters to a public sanitary sewer
may be issued by the Council upon recommendation of the Superintendent where
such discharge is deemed necessary or advisable for purposes of flushing, but
any permit so issued shall be subject to revocation at any time when deemed to
the best interests of the sewer system.
97.03 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   1.   Flammable or Explosive Material. Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel
oil, or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
   2.   Toxic or Poisonous Materials. Any waters or wastes containing toxic or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or
create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant,
including but not limited to cyanides in excess of two (2) milligrams per liter
as CN in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
   3.   Corrosive Wastes. Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
   4.   Solid or Viscous Substances. Solid or viscous substances in quantities
or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not
limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   5.   Excessive B.O.D., Solids or Flow. Any waters or wastes having (a) a
five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 300 parts per million by
weight, or (b) containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids, or (c) having an average daily flow greater than two percent
of the average sewage flow of the City, shall be subject to the review of the
Superintendent. Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at the owner’s expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to (a) reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million
by weight, or (b) reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by
weight, or (c) control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes. Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced
until said approvals are obtained in writing.
97.04 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances restricted are:
   1.   High Temperature. Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than
one hundred fifty degrees (150º) F (65º C).
   2.   Fat, Oil, Grease. Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or 600
milligrams per liter of dispersed or other soluble matter.
   3.   Viscous Substances. Water or wastes containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32º F and 150º F (0º to 65º
C).
   4.   Garbage. Any garbage that has not been properly shredded, that is, to
such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow
conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than
one-half (½) inch in any dimension.
   5.   Acids. Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not.
   6.   Toxic or Objectionable Wastes. Any waters or wastes containing iron,
chromium, copper, zinc, and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or
wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such
material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials.
   7.   Odor or Taste. Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste
or odor producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may
be established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of State, Federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
   8.   Radioactive Wastes. Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-
life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable State or Federal regulations.
   9.   Excess Alkalinity. Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
   10.   Unusual Wastes. Materials which exert or cause:
      A.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
      B.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
      C.   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
      D.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
   11.   Noxious or Malodorous Gases. Any noxious or malodorous gas or other
substance which either singly or by interaction with other wastes is capable of
creating a public nuisance or hazard to life or of preventing entry into sewers
for their maintenance and repair.
   12.   Damaging Substances. Any waters, wastes, materials or substances which
react with water or wastes in the sewer system to release noxious gases,
develop color of undesirable intensity, form suspended solids in objectionable
concentration or create any other condition deleterious to structures and
treatment processes.
   13.   Untreatable Wastes. Waters or wastes containing substances which are
not amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes
employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage
treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
97.05 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES – POWERS.
   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged to
the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in Section
97.04 and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
   1.   Rejection. Reject the wastes by requiring disconnection from the public
sewage system;
   2.   Pretreatment. Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for
discharge to the public sewers;
   3.   Controls Imposed. Require control over the quantities and rates of
discharge; and/or
   4.   Special Charges. Require payment to cover the added cost of handling
and treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under
the provisions of
Chapter 99.
97.06 SPECIAL FACILITIES.
   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws. Where preliminary
treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at the owner’s expense.
97.07 CONTROL MANHOLES.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at the owner’s
expense, and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
97.08 TESTING OF WASTES.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids analyses are obtained
from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined from
periodic grab samples).
CHAPTER 98
ON-SITE WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
 
98.01 When Prohibited             98.05 Discharge Restrictions
98.02 When Required               98.06 Maintenance of System
98.03 Compliance with Regulations 98.07 Systems Abandoned
98.04 Permit Required             98.08 Disposal of Septage
 
98.01 WHEN PROHIBITED.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.02 WHEN REQUIRED.
   When a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
Section
95.05, every building wherein persons reside, congregate or are employed shall
be provided with an approved on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system
complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
98.03 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system shall comply with the specifications and
requirements set forth by the Iowa Administrative Code 567,
Chapter 69, and with such additional requirements as are prescribed by the
regulations of the County Board of Health.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3 & 4])
98.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall install or alter an on-site wastewater treatment and
disposal system without first obtaining a permit from the County Board of
Health.
98.05 DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.
   It is unlawful to discharge any wastewater from an on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system (except under an NPDES permit) to any ditch,
stream, pond, lake, natural or artificial waterway, drain tile or to the
surface of the ground.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
98.06 MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
   The owner of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system shall
operate and maintain the system in a sanitary manner at all times and at no
expense to the City.
98.07 SYSTEMS ABANDONED.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by an
on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system, as provided in Section
95.05, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
these Sanitary Sewer chapters and the on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.08 DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE.
   No person shall dispose of septage from an on-site treatment system at any
location except an approved disposal site.
CHAPTER 99
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
 
99.01 Sewer Service Charges Required 99.05 Payment of Bills
99.02 Rates for Service              99.06 Lien for Nonpayment
99.03 Special Rates                  99.07 Special Agreements Permitted
99.04 Private Water Systems
 
99.01 SEWER SERVICE CHARGES REQUIRED.
   Every customer shall pay to the City sewer service fees as hereinafter
provided.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.02 RATES FOR SERVICE.
   Each customer shall pay sewer service charges for the use of and for the
service supplies by the municipal sanitary sewer system based upon the amount
of water consumed as follows:
   1.   Basic Service Charge. A minimum basic service charge of $17.00 per
month.
   2.    Usage Charge. An additional usage charge as follows:
 
Gallons Used Per Month Rate
First 12000            $2.50 per 1000 gallons
12001-28000            $2.00 per 1000 gallons
28001- and over        $1.00 per 1000 gallons
 
(Section 99.02 – Ord. 183 – May 23 Supp.)
99.03 SPECIAL RATES.
   Where, in the judgment of the Superintendent and the Council, special
conditions exist to the extent that the application of the sewer charges
provided in Section
99.02 would be inequitable or unfair to either the City or the customer, a
special rate shall be proposed by the Superintendent and submitted to the
Council for approval by resolution.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.04 PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS.
   Customers whose premises are served by a private water system shall pay
sewer charges based upon the water used as determined by the City either by an
estimate agreed to by the customer or by metering the water system at the
customer’s expense. Any negotiated or agreed-upon sales or charges shall be
subject to approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.05 PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   All sewer service charges are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section
92.04 of this Code of Ordinances. Sewer service may be discontinued in
accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
99.06 LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
   The owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof shall be
jointly and severally liable for sewer service charges to the premises. Sewer
service charges remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon
the property or premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the
County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.07 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS PERMITTED.
   No statement in these chapters shall be construed as preventing a special
agreement, arrangement, or contract between the Council, and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted subject to special conditions, rate, and cost as established by the
Council.
CHAPTER 100
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT SURCHARGE
 
100.01 Establishment of Surcharge 100.02 Rate
 
100.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF SURCHARGE.
   A System Improvement Surcharge (SIS) is hereby established. The SIS shall
be:
   1.   Charged to each customer’s primary water meter or sewer service.
   2.   Listed separately on monthly billing for each account.
   3.   Considered payable under the same terms and conditions as any other
charge or fee.
The revenue generated by the SIS shall be designated and reserved to the
Utility Capital Improvement Fund for the specific purpose of funding future
system improvements and/or debt obligations. The SIS shall begin on July 1,
2015.
100.02 RATE.
   The rate for the System Improvement Surcharge (SIS) shall be $7.50 per month
for water and $10.50 per month for sewer.
(Ord. 181 – May 23 Supp.)
CHAPTER 105
SOLID WASTE CONTROL
 
105.01 Purpose                           105.07 Littering Prohibited
105.02 Definitions                       105.08 Toxic and Hazardous Waste
105.03 Sanitary Disposal Required        105.09 Waste Storage Containers
105.04 Health and Fire Hazard            105.10 Prohibited Practices
105.05 Open Burning Restricted           105.11 Recycling Program
105.06 Separation of Yard Waste Required
 
105.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the chapters in this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Solid
Waste Control and Collection is to provide for the sanitary storage,
collection, and disposal of solid waste and, thereby, to protect the citizens
of the City from such hazards to their health, safety and welfare as may result
from the uncontrolled disposal of solid waste.
105.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in these chapters the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Collector” means any person authorized to gather solid waste from
public and private places.
   2.   “Discard” means to place, cause to be placed, throw, deposit, or drop.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[1])
   3.   “Dwelling unit” means any room or group of rooms located within a
structure and forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used,
or are intended to be used, for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   4.   “Garbage” means all solid and semisolid, putrescible animal and
vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing,
serving and consuming of food or of material intended for use as food, and all
offal, excluding useful industrial by-products, and includes all such
substances from all public and private establishments and from all residences.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   5.   “Landscape waste” means any vegetable or plant waste except garbage.
The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds,
leaves, grass, shrubbery, and yard trimmings.
(IAC, 567-20.2[455B])
   6.   “Litter” means any garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, waste materials, or
debris not exceeding 10 pounds in weight or 15 cubic feet in volume. Litter
includes but is not limited to empty beverage containers, cigarette butts, food
waste packaging, other food or candy wrappers, handbills, empty cartons, or
boxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[2])
   7.   “Owner” means, in addition to the record titleholder, any person
residing in, renting, leasing, occupying, operating or transacting business in
any premises, and as between such parties the duties, responsibilities,
liabilities and obligations hereinafter imposed shall be joint and several.
   8.   “Refuse” means putrescible and non-putrescible waste, including but not
limited to garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator residues, street cleanings,
market and industrial solid waste and sewage treatment waste in dry or
semisolid form.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   9.   “Residential premises” means a single-family dwelling and any multiple-
family dwelling up to and including four separate dwelling units.
   10.   “Residential waste” means any refuse generated on the premises as a
result of residential activities. The term includes landscape waste grown on
the premises or deposited thereon by the elements, but excludes garbage, tires,
trade wastes and any locally recyclable goods or plastics.
(IAC, 567-20.2[455B])
   11.   “Rubbish” means non-putrescible solid waste consisting of combustible
and non-combustible waste, such as ashes, paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, or litter of any kind.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   12.   “Sanitary disposal” means a method of treating solid waste so that it
does not produce a hazard to the public health or safety or create a nuisance.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   13.   “Sanitary disposal project” means all facilities and appurtenances
(including all real and personal property connected with such facilities) that
are acquired, purchased, constructed, reconstructed, equipped, improved,
extended, maintained, or operated to facilitate the final disposition of solid
waste without creating a significant hazard to the public health or safety, and
which are approved by the Director of the State Department of Natural
Resources.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
   14.   “Solid waste” means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar
discarded solid or semisolid materials, including but not limited to such
materials resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic
activities. Solid waste may include vehicles, as defined by Section 321.1 of
the Code of Iowa. Solid waste does not include any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
      A.   Hazardous waste regulated under the Federal Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6921-6934.
      B.   Hazardous waste as defined in Section 455B.411 of the Code of Iowa,
except to the extent that rules allowing for the disposal of specific wastes
have been adopted by the State Environmental Protection Commission.
      C.   Source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined in the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended to January 1, 1979.
      D.   Petroleum contaminated soil that has been remediated to acceptable
State or federal standards.
      E.   Steel slag which is a product resulting from the steel manufacturing
process and is managed as an item of value in a controlled manner and not as a
discarded material.
105.03 SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
   It is the duty of each owner to provide for the sanitary disposal of all
refuse accumulating on the owner’s premises before it becomes a nuisance. Any
such accumulation remaining on any premises for a period of more than 30 days
shall be deemed a nuisance and the City may proceed to abate such nuisances in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 50 or by initiating proper action in
district court.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 657)
105.04 HEALTH AND FIRE HAZARD.
   It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any premises,
improved or vacant, or on any public place, such quantities of solid waste that
constitute a health, sanitation or fire hazard.
105.05 OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED.
   No person shall allow, cause or permit open burning of combustible materials
where the products of combustion are emitted into the open air without passing
through a chimney or stack, except that open burning is permitted in the
following circumstances:
(IAC, 567-23.2[455B] and 567-100.2)
   1.   Disaster Rubbish. The open burning of rubbish, including landscape
waste, for the duration of the community disaster period in cases where an
officially declared emergency condition exists, provided that the burning of
any structures or demolished structures is conducted in accordance with 40 CFR
Section 61.145.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3a])
   2.   (Repealed by Ordinance No. 190 – Dec. 23 Supp.)
   3.   The disposal by open burning of landscape waste originating on the
premises during the early spring and late fall, said burning dates and times
shall be determined by the Council based on seasonal changes and weather
conditions. Rubber tires shall not be used to ignite landscape waste.
(Subsection 3 – Ord. 190 – Dec. 23 Supp.)
   4.   Recreational Fires. Open fires for cooking, heating, recreation, and
ceremonies, provided they comply with the limits for emission of visible air
contaminants established by the State Department of Natural Resources. Rubber
tires shall not be burned in a recreational fire. All open fires for
recreational purposes shall be within the following guidelines:
      A.   No larger than four feet in inside diameter.
      B.   No more than two feet in height.
      C.   20 feet from any lot line; minimum of 15 feet from combustible
materials and buildings.
      D.   The only material allowed to burn is firewood. No leaves, yard
waste, lumber scraps or household waste may be burned.
      E.   All fires shall be extinguished by 11 PM the same day the fire is
started or be attended by a responsible adult.
(Subsection 4 – Ord. 197 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
   5.   Training Fires. Fires set for the purpose of conducting bona fide
training of public or industrial employees in firefighting methods, provided
that the training fires are conducted in compliance with rules established by
the State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3g])
   6.   Agricultural Structures. The open burning of agricultural structures if
in accordance with rules and limitations established by the State Department of
Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3i])
   7.   Controlled Burning of a Demolished Building. The controlled burning of
a demolished building by the City, subject to approval of the Council, provided
that the controlled burning is conducted in accordance with rules and
limitations established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3j])
   8.   Variance. Any person wishing to conduct open burning of materials not
permitted herein may make application for a variance to the Director of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[2])
105.06 SEPARATION OF YARD WASTE REQUIRED.
   All yard waste shall be separated by the owner or occupant from all other
solid waste accumulated on the premises and shall be burned, during the time
periods established by the Council, or composted on the premises. As used in
this section, “yard waste” means any debris such as grass clippings, leaves,
garden waste, brush, and trees. Yard waste does not include tree stumps.
105.07 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discard any litter onto or in any water or land, except that
nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authorized collection
and discarding of such litter in or on areas or receptacles provided for such
purpose. When litter is discarded from a motor vehicle, the driver of the motor
vehicle shall be responsible for the act in any case where doubt exists as to
which occupant of the motor vehicle actually discarded the litter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.363)
105.08 TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for
collection any toxic or hazardous waste. Such materials shall be transported
and disposed of as prescribed by the Director of the State Department of
Natural Resources. As used in this section, “toxic and hazardous waste” means
waste materials, including (but not limited to) poisons, pesticides,
herbicides, acids, caustics, pathological waste, flammable or explosive
materials, and similar harmful waste that requires special handling and that
must be disposed of in such a manner as to conserve the environment and protect
the public health and safety.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
(IAC, 567-102.13[2] and 400-27.14[2])
105.09 WASTE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing, or renting any premises,
dwelling unit or any place where refuse accumulates shall provide and at all
times maintain in good order and repair portable containers for refuse in
accordance with the following:
   1.   Container Specifications. Waste storage containers shall comply with
the following specifications:
      A.   Residential. Residential waste containers, whether they are
reusable, portable containers or heavy-duty disposable garbage bags, shall be
of sufficient capacity, and leak-proof and waterproof. Disposable containers
shall be securely fastened, and reusable containers shall be fitted with a fly-
tight lid which shall be kept in place except when depositing or removing the
contents of the container. Reusable containers shall also be lightweight and of
sturdy construction and have suitable lifting devices.
      B.   Commercial. Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing or
renting any commercial premises where an excessive amount of refuse accumulates
and where its storage in portable containers as required above is impractical,
shall maintain metal bulk storage containers approved by the City.
   2.   Storage of Containers. Residential solid waste containers shall be
stored upon the residential premises. Commercial solid waste containers shall
be stored upon private property, unless the owner has been granted written
permission from the City to use public property for such purposes. The storage
site shall be well drained and fully accessible to collection equipment, public
health personnel, and fire inspection personnel. All owners of residential and
commercial premises shall be responsible for proper storage of all garbage and
yard waste to prevent materials from being blown or scattered around
neighboring yards and streets.
   3.   Location of Containers for Collection. Containers for the storage of
solid waste awaiting collection shall be placed outdoors at some easily
accessible place by the owner or occupant of the premises served.
   4.   Nonconforming Containers. Solid waste placed in containers which are
not in compliance with the provisions of this section will not be collected.
105.10 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   1.   Unlawful Use of Containers. Deposit refuse in any solid waste
containers not owned by such person without the written consent of the owner of
such containers.
   2.   Interfere with Collectors. Interfere in any manner with solid waste
collection equipment or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance
of their duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors be those of the
City, or those of any other authorized waste collection service.
   3.   Incinerators. Burn rubbish or garbage except in incinerators designed
for high temperature operation, in which solid, semisolid, liquid, or gaseous
combustible refuse is ignited and burned efficiently, and from which the solid
residues contain little or no combustible material, as acceptable to the
Environmental Protection Commission.
   4.   Scavenging. Take or collect any solid waste which has been placed out
for collection on any premises, unless such person is an authorized solid waste
collector.
105.11 RECYCLING PROGRAM.
   The City shall provide for the collection of recyclable material in
accordance with the provisions of the contract between the City and the
collector. All recyclable material shall be separated and prepared for
collection in accordance with the rules and regulations as established by the
collector.
CHAPTER 106
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
 
106.01 Collection Service      106.06 Right of Entry
106.02 Collection Vehicles     106.07 Contract Requirements
106.03 Loading                 106.08 Collection of Fees
106.04 Frequency of Collection 106.09 Lien for Nonpayment
106.05 Bulky Rubbish
 
106.01 COLLECTION SERVICE.
   The City shall provide by contract for the collection of solid waste, except
bulky rubbish as provided in Section 106.05, from residential premises only.
The owners or operators of commercial, industrial, or institutional premises
shall provide for the collection of solid waste produced upon such premises.
106.02 COLLECTION VEHICLES.
   Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of garbage
and similar putrescible waste or solid waste containing such materials shall be
leak-proof, durable and of easily cleanable construction. They shall be cleaned
to prevent nuisances, pollution, or insect breeding and shall be maintained in
good repair.
(IAC, 567-104.9[455B])
106.03 LOADING.
   Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of any
solid waste shall be loaded and moved in such a manner that the contents will
not fall, leak, or spill therefrom, and shall be covered to prevent blowing or
loss of material. Where spillage does occur, the material shall be picked up
immediately by the collector or transporter and returned to the vehicle or
container and the area properly cleaned.
106.04 FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
   All solid waste shall be collected from residential premises at least once
each week and from commercial, industrial and institutional premises as
frequently as may be necessary, but not less than once each week.
106.05 BULKY RUBBISH.
   Bulky rubbish which is too large or heavy to be collected in the normal
manner of other solid waste may be collected by the collector upon request in
accordance with procedures therefor established by the Council.
106.06 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Solid waste collectors are hereby authorized to enter upon private property
for the purpose of collecting solid waste therefrom as required by this
chapter; however, solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling units or
other residential buildings.
106.07 CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall engage in the business of collecting, transporting,
processing or disposing of solid waste from residential premises for the City
without first entering into a contract with the City. This section does not
prohibit an owner from transporting solid waste accumulating upon premises
owned, occupied or used by such owner, provided such refuse is disposed of
properly in an approved sanitary disposal project. Furthermore, a contract is
not required for the removal, hauling, or disposal of earth and rock material
from grading or excavation activities, provided that all such materials are
conveyed in tight vehicles, trucks or receptacles so constructed and maintained
that none of the material being transported is spilled upon any public right-
of-way.
106.08 COLLECTION OF FEES.
   The collection and disposal of solid waste as provided by this chapter are
declared to be beneficial to the property served or eligible to be served and
there shall be levied and collected fees therefor in accordance with the
following:
(Goreham vs. Des Moines, 1970, 179 NW 2nd, 449)
   1.   Schedule of Fees. The fees for solid waste collection and disposal
service, used or available, for each residential premises and for each dwelling
unite of multiple-family dwelling are:
      A.   Collection Fee - $16.75 per month for two cans. For anything more
than two cans, the fee is $5.00 per sticker obtained from the City Clerk.
      B.   Landfill Fee - $4.20 per month.
   2.   Payment of Bills. All fees are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section
92.04 of this Code of Ordinances. Solid waste collection service may be
discontinued in accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
(Section 106.08 – Ord. 167 – Dec. 19 Supp.)
106.09 LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
   Except as provided for in Section
92.07 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof are jointly and severally liable for fees for solid
waste collection and disposal. Fees remaining unpaid and delinquent shall
constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and shall be certified
by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as
property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
CHAPTER 110
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
110.01 Grant of Franchise           110.11 Information
110.02 Rights and Privileges        110.12 Applicable Regulations
110.03 Poles and Wires              110.13 Franchise Fee
110.04 Construction and Maintenance 110.14 Management Fees
110.05 Excavations                  110.15 Binding
110.06 Utility Easements            110.16 Termination
110.07 Relocation Not Required      110.17 Severability
110.08 Relocation Reimbursement     110.18 Rights Waived
110.09 Indemnification              110.19 Binding
110.10 Pruning and Vegetation       110.20 Repealer
 
110.01 GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
   There is hereby granted to MidAmerican Energy Company, an Iowa corporation,
(hereinafter called “Company,”) and its successors and assigns, the right and
non-exclusive franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain and operate in
the City of Pierson, Iowa, (hereinafter called the “City,”)” a system for the
transmission and distribution of electric energy and communications signals
along, under, over and upon the streets, avenues, rights of way and alleys to
serve customers within the City, and to furnish and sell electric energy to the
City and its inhabitants. The Company is granted the right to exercise of
powers of eminent domain, subject to City Council approval. This franchise
shall be effective for a twenty-five (25) year period from and after the
effective date of this ordinance.† 6
 
Notes
6 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 180 adopting an electric franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on March 8, 2023.
110.02 RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
   The rights and privileges hereby granted are subject to the restrictions and
limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa 2023 or as subsequently amended
or changed.
110.03 POLES AND WIRES.
   The Company shall have the right to erect all necessary poles and to place
thereon the necessary wires, fixtures and accessories as well as to excavate
and bury conduits or conductors for the distribution of electric energy
and communications signals in and through the City, provided the same shall be
placed in accord with this franchise and City Code regulations of the City,
regarding the placement of structures, facilities, accessories or other objects
in the right of way, including ordinances which assign corridors or other
placements to users of the right of way and requirements which may be adopted
regarding separation of structures, facilities, accessories or other objects.
110.04 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The Company shall, excluding facilities located in private easements
(whether titled in Company exclusively or in Company and other entities), in
accordance with Iowa law including Company’s Tariff on file with and made
effective by the Iowa Utilities Board as may subsequently be amended
(“Tariff”), at its cost and expense, locate and relocate its existing
installations located in, on, over or under the right-of-way of any public
street, right of way or alley in the City in such a manner as the City may
require for the purposes of facilitating the construction, reconstruction,
maintenance or repair of the street right of way or alley. If the City has a
reasonable alternative route for the street, right of way or alley or an
alternative construction method, which would not cause the relocation of
Company installations or would minimize the cost or expense of relocation of
Company installations, the City and Company shall work together to consider
said alternative route or construction method. The City shall, in the extension
or modification of streets and roads, make provision for the placement of
company service lines and facilities on City-owned right of way without charge
to Company. In planning for the extension or modification of streets, the City
shall, to the extent practicable design such changes to limit the need for
relocation of Company facilities. The City shall be responsible for surveying
and staking the right-of-way for City projects that require the Company to
relocate Company facilities. If requested, the City shall provide, at no cost
to the Company, copies of the relocation plan and profile and cross section
drawings. If vegetation and tree removals must be completed by the City as part
of the City’s project and are necessary whether or not utility facilities must
be relocated, the City at its own cost shall be responsible for said removals.
If the timing of vegetation and tree removals does not coincide with Company’s
facilities relocation schedule and the Company must remove vegetation and trees
that are included in the City’s portion of the project, the City shall either
remove them or reimburse the Company for the expenses incurred to remove said
materials. If project funds from a source other than the City are available to
pay for the relocation of utility facilities, the City shall use its best
efforts to secure said funds and provide them to the Company to compensate the
Company for the costs of relocation.
110.05 EXCAVATIONS.
   In making excavations in any streets, avenues and public places for
theinstallation, maintenance or repair of conductor, conduits or the erection
of poles and wires or other appliances, the Company shall not unreasonably
obstruct theuse of the streets. The Company in making such excavations shall,
if required by ordinance, obtain a City permit therefore and provide City
representatives with advance notice prior to the actual commencement of the
work, and shall comply with all provisions and requirements of the City in its
regulation of the use of City right of way in performing such work. In
emergencies which require immediate excavation, the Company may proceed with
the work without first applying for or obtaining the permit, provided, however,
that Company shall apply for and obtain the excavation permit as soon as
possible after commencing such emergency work. The Company shall comply with
all provisions and requirements of the City in its regulation of the use of
City right of way in performing such work. The Company shall comply with all
City ordinances regarding paving cuts, placement of facilities and restoration
of pavement and other public infrastructure. The Company shall replace the
surface, restoring the condition as existed prior to the Company’s excavation
but shall not be required to improve or modify the public right of way,
sidewalks or other areas in or adjacent to the Company project to a condition
superior to its immediate previously existing condition. Company shall complete
all repairs in a timely manner. Company agrees any replacement of road surface
shall conform to current City ordinances regarding its depth and composition.
110.06 UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   Vacating a street, avenue, alley, public ground or public right-of-way shall
not deprive the Company of its right to operate and maintain existing
facilities and their replacements on, below, above, or beneath the vacated
property. Prior to the City abandoning or vacating any street, avenue, alley or
public ground where the Company has electric facilities, the City shall grant
the Company a utility easement for said facilities.
110.07 RELOCATION NOT REQUIRED.
   The Company shall not be required to relocate, at its cost and expense,
Company facilities in the public right of way that have been relocated at
Company expense at the direction of the City in the previous ten (10) years.
110.08 RELOCATION REIMBURSEMENT.
   Pursuant to relocation of Company facilities, if the City orders or requests
the Company to relocate its existing facilities or equipment in order to
directly facilitate a project for the primary benefit of a commercial or
private developer or other non-public entity, the City shall require the
developer or non-public entity to reimburse the Company for the cost of such
relocation as a precondition to relocation of its existing facilities or
equipment. The Company shall not be required to relocate in order to facilitate
such private project at its expense.
110.09 INDEMNIFICATION.  
   The Company shall indemnify, save and hold harmless the City from any and
all claims, suits, losses, damages, costs or expenses, on account of injury or
damage to any person or property, to the extent caused or occasioned by the
Company’s negligence in construction, reconstruction, excavation, operation or
maintenance of the electric facilities authorized by this franchise; provided,
however, that the Company shall not be obligated to defend, indemnify and save
harmless the City for any costs or damages to the extent arising from the
negligence of the City, its officers, employees or agents.
110.10 PRUNING AND VEGETATION.  
   The pruning and removal of vegetation and trees shall be done in accordance
with current nationally accepted safety and utility industry standards and
federal and State law, rules and regulations. The Company is authorized and
empowered to prune or remove at Company expense, any tree extending into any
street, avenue, right of way, alley, public place or public grounds to maintain
electric reliability, safety, to restore utility service and to prevent limbs,
branches, or trunks from interfering with the wires and facilities of the
Company. The pruning and removal of vegetation and trees shall be completed in
accordance with nationally accepted safety and utility standards, NSI Z133.1-
2012, American National Standard for Arboricultural Operations-Safety
Requirements, and ANSI A300(Part 1) – 2008 Pruning, (Revision of ANSI A300 Part
1-2001) American National Standard for Tree, Shrub, and other Woody Plant
Management – Standard of Practices (Pruning) or subsequent revisions to these
standards, and City ordinances regarding the pruning of trees that incorporate
by reference that standard.
110.11 INFORMATION.  
   Upon reasonable request, the Company shall provide the City, on a project
specific basis, information indicating the horizontal location, relative to
boundaries of the right of way, of all equipment which it owns or over which it
has control that is located in City right of way, including documents, maps and
other information in paper or electronic or other forms (“Information”). The
Company and City recognize the Information may in whole or part be considered a
confidential record under State or federal law or both. Therefore, City shall
not release any Information without prior consent of the Company and shall
return the Information to Company upon request. City recognizes that Company
claims the Information may constitute a trade secret or is otherwise protected
from public disclosure by State or federal law on other grounds, and agrees to
retain the Information in its non-public files. Furthermore, the City agrees
that no documents, maps or other Information provided to the City by the
Company shall be made available to the public or other entities if such
documents or Information are exempt from disclosure under the provisions of the
Freedom of Information Act, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Critical
Energy Infrastructure requirements pursuant to 18 CFR 388.112 and 388.113, or
Chapter 22 of the Code of Iowa, as such statutes and regulations may be amended
from time to time. In the event any action at law, in equity or administrative
is brought against the City regarding disclosure of any document which the
Company has designated as a trade secret or as otherwise protected from
disclosure, the Company shall assume, upon request of the City, the defense of
said action and reimburse the City any and all costs, including attorney fees
and penalties to the extent allowed by law.
110.12 APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.  
   The Company shall construct, operate and maintain its facilities in
accordance with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board or its
successors and Iowa law. During the term of this franchise, the Company shall
furnish electric energy in the quantity and quality consistent with and in
accordance with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board, the
Company’s Tariff and made effective by the Iowa Utilities Board or its
successors and Iowa law.
110.13 FRANCHISE FEE.  
   There is hereby imposed upon the customers a franchise fee of ____ (_)
percent upon the gross revenues, minus uncollectible accounts, generated from
sales of electricity and distribution service, pursuant to the Tariff, by the
Company within the corporate limits of the City. The franchise fee shall be
remitted by the Company to the City on or before the last business day of the
calendar quarter following the close of the calendar quarter in which the
franchise fee is charged.
   1.   City agrees to modify the level of franchise fees imposed only once in
any 24-month period.
   2.   Company will commence collecting franchise fees on or before the first
Company billing cycle of the first calendar month following ninety (90) days of
receipt of information required of the City to implement the franchise fee,
including the City’s documentation of customer classes subject to or exempted
from City-imposed franchise fee.
   3.   City shall be solely responsible for identifying customer classes
subject to or exempt from paying the City imposed franchise fee. The Company
shall have no obligation to collect franchise fees from customers in annexed
areas until and unless such ordinances have been provided to the Company by
certified mail. The Company shall commence collecting franchise fees in the
annexed areas no sooner than sixty (60) days after receiving annexation
ordinances from the City.
   4.   Company shall not, under any circumstances be required to return or
refund any franchise fees that have been collected from customers and remitted
to the City. In the event the Company is required to provide data or
information in defense of the City’s imposition of franchise fees or the
Company is required to assist the City in identifying customers or calculating
any franchise fee refunds for groups of or individual customers the City shall
reimburse the Company for the expenses incurred by the Company to provide such
data or information.
110.14 MANAGEMENT FEES.  
   The City shall not, pursuant to Chapter 480A.6 of the Code of Iowa, impose
or charge right of way management fees upon the Company or fees for permits for
Company construction, maintenance, repairs, excavation, pavement cutting or
inspections of Company work sites and projects or related matters.
110.15 BINDING.  
   This franchise shall apply to and bind the City and Company and their
successors and assigns.
110.16 TERMINATION.  
   Either City or Company (“party”) may terminate this franchise if the other
party shall be materially in breach of its provisions. Upon the occurrence of a
material breach, the non-breaching party shall provide the breaching party with
notification by certified mail specifying the alleged breach. The breaching
party shall have sixty (60) days to cure the breach, unless it notifies the
non-breaching party, and the parties agree upon a longer period for cure. If
the breach is not cured within the cure period, the non-breaching party may
terminate this franchise. A party shall not be considered to be in breach of
this franchise if it has operated in compliance with State or federal law. A
party shall not be considered to have breached this franchise if the alleged
breach is the result of the actions of a third party or the other party.
110.17 SEVERABILITY.  
   If any of the provisions of this franchise ordinance are for any reason
declared to be illegal or void, the lawful provisions of this franchise
ordinance, which are severable from said unlawful provisions, shall be and
remain in full force and effect, the same as if the franchise ordinance
contained no illegal or void provisions.
110.18 RIGHTS WAIVED.  
   To the fullest extent permitted by law, each of the parties hereto waives
any right it may have to a trial by jury in respect of litigation directly or
indirectly arising out of, under or in connection with this agreement. Each
party further waives any right to consolidate any action in which a jury trial
has been waived with any other action in which a jury trial cannot be or has
not been waived.
110.19 BINDING.
   This ordinance and the rights and privileges herein granted shall become
effective and binding upon its approval and passage in accordance with Iowa law
and the written acceptance by the Company. The City shall provide Company with
an original signed and sealed copy of this ordinance within 10 days of its
final passage. The Company shall, within thirty (30) days after the City
Council approval of this ordinance, file in the office of the Clerk of the
City, its acceptance in writing of all the terms and provisions of this
ordinance. Following City Council approval, this ordinance shall be published
in accordance with the Code of Iowa. The effective date of this ordinance shall
be the date of publication. In the event Company does not file its written
acceptance of this ordinance within thirty (30) days after its approval by the
City Council, this ordinance shall be void and of no effect.
110.20 REPEALER.  
   Upon the effective date of this ordinance, all prior franchises granted to
the Company to furnish electric service to the City and its inhabitants are
hereby repealed and all other ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict
herewith are also hereby repealed.
(Chapter 110 – Ord. 180 – May 23 Supp.)
CHAPTER 111
SATELLITE CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
111.01 Title                           111.13 Transfer of Franchise
111.02 Definitions                     111.14 City Rights in Franchise
111.03 Grant of Nonexclusive Authority 111.15 Maps, Plats and Reports
111.04 Compliance with Applicable Law  111.16 Forfeiture of Franchise
and Ordinances
111.05 Territorial Area Involved       111.17 City Right to Intervention
111.06 Liability and Indemnification   111.18 Duration and Acceptance of
                                       Franchise
111.07 Color TV                        111.19 Erection, Removal and Common Use
                                       of Poles
111.08 Signal Quality Requirements     111.20 Number of Channels
111.09 Operation and Maintenance of    111.21 Rates
Equipment
111.10 Carriage of Signals; Program    111.22 Approval of Grantee
Alteration
111.11 Standards of Operation          111.23 Modification of Regulations
111.12 Preferential or Discriminatory
Practices Prohibited
 
111.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Ronald Wetherell Satellite Cable
Television Franchise Ordinance.
111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations have the meanings given herein.
   1.   “Satellite Cable Television System” hereinafter referred to as “system”
means a system of coaxial cables or other electrical conductors and equipment
used, or to be used, primarily to receive television “direct from satellite
signals” and transmit them to subscribers for a fee. This does not include “off
the air” television signals transmitted by existing television broadcast
stations.
   2.   “Grantee” is Ronald Wetherell or anyone who succeeds Ronald Wetherell,
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
111.03 GRANT OF NONEXCLUSIVE AUTHORITY.
   There is hereby granted by the City to the Grantee the right and privilege
to construct, erect, operate, and maintain, in, upon, along, across, above,
over and under the streets, alleys, public ways, and public places now laid out
or dedicated, and all extensions thereof and additions thereto in the City,
poles and wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes, and other televisions
conductors and fixtures necessary for the maintenance and operation in the City
of the System for the interception, sale and distribution of television and
radio signals. The right to use and occupy said streets, alleys, public ways
and places for the purpose herein set forth shall not be exclusive and the City
reserves the right to grant a similar use of said streets, alleys, public ways
and places to any person at any time during the period of the franchise.
111.04 COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAW AND ORDINANCES.
   The Grantee, at all times during the life of the franchise, shall be subject
to all lawful exercise of the police powers of the City and to such reasonable
regulations as the City shall hereafter provide.
111.05 TERRITORIAL AREA INVOLVED.
   This chapter relates to the present City limits of the City, as well as to
any area henceforth added thereto during the term of the franchise. Once
original construction is complete, Grantee will build into additional areas as
economic feasibility dictates.
111.06 LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   1.   The Grantee shall pay and by its acceptance of the franchise the
Grantee specifically agrees that it will pay all damages and penalties which
the City may be legally required to pay as a result of granting the franchise,
including any damages arising out of copyright infringements and all other
damages arising out of the installation, operation, or maintenance of the
System authorized, allowed, or prohibited by this chapter.
   2.   The Grantee shall pay and by its acceptance of the franchise
specifically agrees that it will pay all expenses incurred by the City in
defending itself with regard to all damages and penalties mentioned in
subsection 1 above. These expenses shall include all out-of-pocket expenses,
such as attorney fees, court costs, and the like, but Grantee shall have the
sole responsibility and authority to select the attorney who shall handle the
disposition of any litigation or dispute or for whose fees it becomes
responsible under this section.
   3.   The Grantee shall maintain, and by acceptance of the franchise
specifically agrees that it will maintain throughout the terms of the franchise
liability insurance insuring the City and the Grantee with regard to all
damages mentioned in subsection 1 above in the minimum amount of:
      A.   $500,000.00 for bodily injury or death to anyone person, with the
limit, however, of $1,000,000.00 for bodily injury or death resulting from any
one accident.
      B.   $100,000.00 for property damage resulting from one accident.
      C.   Worker’s Compensation coverage covering all of Grantee’s employees.
   4.   A certificate of such insurance coverage shall be provided to the City,
together with the payment of required premiums upon request of the City during
the term of the franchise.
111.07 COLOR TV.
   The facilities used by the Grantee shall be capable of distributing color TV
signals, and when the Grantee distributes are received in color they shall be
distributed in color where technically feasible.
111.08 SIGNAL QUALITY REQUIREMENTS.
   The Grantee shall:
   1.   Produce a picture, whether in black or white or in color, accompanied
with proper sound on typical standard production TV sets in good repair as
required by the Federal Communications Commission and as good as the state of
the art allows.
   2.   Limit failures attributable to Grantee’s equipment to a minimum by
locating and correcting malfunctions promptly, but in no event longer than 72
hours after notice, with normal failures to be corrected as soon as feasible as
dictated by the availability of necessary replacement equipment where required.
111.09 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF EQUIPMENT.
   1.   The Grantee shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly, and
interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible. Such
interruption, insofar as possible, shall be preceded by notice and shall occur
during periods of minimum use of the system.
   2.   The Grantee shall have a listed telephone, and be so operated that
complaints and requests for repairs or adjustments may be received during
normal working hours.
111.10 CARRIAGE OF SIGNALS; PROGRAM ALTERATION.
   Grantee shall comply with all Federal Communication Commission regulations
regarding the carriage of the programming of any existing or future television
broadcast, program alteration, advertising, availability of local origination
and such other regulations and provisions as are set down by the Federal
Communication Commission.
111.11 STANDARDS OF OPERATION.
   1.   The Grantee shall at all times employ ordinary care and shall install
and use commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing failures and
accidents which are likely to cause damage, injuries, or nuisances to the
public.
   2.   Grantee shall install and maintain its wires, cables, fixtures, and
other equipment in accordance with the requirements of the National Electrical
Safety Code as promulgated by the national Bureau of Fire Underwriters and in
such manner that they will not interfere with any installations of the City or
of a public utility.
   3.   If at any time during the period of the franchise, the City shall
lawfully elect to alter or change the grade of any street, sidewalk, alley or
other public way, the Grantee, upon reasonable notice by the City, shall
remove, relay, and relocate its poles, wires, cables, underground conduits,
manholes and other fixtures at its own expense.
   4.   Any poles or other fixtures placed in any public way by the Grantee
shall be placed in such manner as not to interfere with the usual travel of
such public way.
   5.   The Grantee shall, on the request of any person holding a building
moving permit issued by the City, temporarily raise or lower its wires to
permit the moving of buildings. The expense of such temporary removal or
raising or lowering of wires shall be paid by the person requesting the same,
and the Grantee shall have the authority to require such payment in advance.
The Grantee shall be given not less than one week’s advance notice to arrange
for such temporary wire changes.
   6.   The Grantee shall have the authority to trim trees upon and overhanging
streets, alleys, sidewalks, and public ways and places of the City so as to
prevent the branches of such trees from coming in contact with the wires and
cables of the Grantee.
   7.   In all sections of the City where the cables, wires, or other like
facilities of public utilities are placed underground, the Grantee shall place
its cables, wires or other like facilities underground to the maximum extent
that existing technology reasonably permits the Grantee to do so.
111.12 PREFERENTIAL OR DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   The Grantee shall not, as to rates, charges, service, service facilities,
rules regulations, or in any other respect make or grant any undue preference
or advantage to any person or subject any person to prejudice or disadvantage.
111.13 TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE.
   It is understood that the Grantee is an individual, but at the same time
during the term of the franchise may organize in a different form of doing
business and in the event of a change in the form of doing business by the
Grantee, the City shall allow him to assign his franchise to the form of
business chosen by him, provided that Grantee maintains a 51% ownership
interest in the new form of business. In the event of such assignment, Grantee
shall forthwith notify the City, in writing, setting forth the name of the
business and the names of addresses of the owners. If Grantee shall decide to
sell his system and franchise, the City is given the right of first refusal to
purchase the system and franchise for their fair market value, as determined by
the existing offers from other bona fide purchasers.
111.14 CITY RIGHTS IN FRANCHISE.
   The right is hereby reserved to the City by the City Council to adopt, in
addition to the provisions contained herein and in existing applicable
ordinances, such additional regulations as it shall find necessary in the
exercise of the police power; provided, such regulations, by ordinance or
otherwise, shall be reasonable and not in conflict with the rights herein
granted. The City shall have the right to inspect the maps, plans, and other
like materials of the Grantee at any time during normal business hours. At the
expiration of the term for which the franchise is granted, or upon its
termination and cancellation, as provided for herein, the City shall have the
right to require the Grantee to remove at its own expense all aerial portions
of the System from all public ways within the City.
111.15 MAPS, PLATS AND REPORTS.
   The Grantee shall file with the City true and accurate as-built plans of its
plant as constructed, including maps and plats of the same, and shall after
initial construction, provide to the City copies of said material so as to keep
the City adequately advised as to any extension of increase in the original
system.
111.16 FORFEITURE OF FRANCHISE.
   In addition to all of the rights and powers pertaining to the City by virtue
of this franchise or otherwise, the City reserves the right to terminate and
cancel the franchise and all rights and privileges of the Grantee hereunder in
the event that the Grantee:
   1.   Violates any provisions of this chapter or any rule, order, or
determination of the City or City Council made pursuant to this chapter, except
where such violation, other than of subsection 2 below, is without fault or
through excusable neglect;
   2.   Becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debts, or is adjudged
bankrupt;
   3.   Attempts to evade any of the provisions of this chapter or practices
any fault or deceit upon the City; or
   4.   Fails to complete an operational system under this chapter as provided
herein.
   Such termination and cancellation shall be by ordinance duly adopted after
no less than 45 days’ notice to the Grantee and pursuant to hearing, and shall
in no way affect any of the City’s rights under this chapter or any provision
of law.
111.17 CITY RIGHT TO INTERVENTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall operate to prevent the intervention by the
City in any suit or proceeding to which the Grantee is a party.
111.18 DURATION AND ACCEPTANCE OF FRANCHISE.
   1.   The franchise and the rights, privileges and authority hereby granted
shall take effect and be in force from and after its approval by a majority of
the legal electors of the City, voting thereon as provided by law, provided
that within 30 days after the date of the special election approving this
franchise, the Grantee shall file with the City Clerk its unconditional
acceptance of the franchise. Such acceptance shall be in writing duly executed
and sworn to, by or on behalf of the Grantee before a Notary Public or other
officer authorized by law to administer oaths.
   2.   Should the Grantee fail to comply with subsection 1 above, it shall
acquire no rights, privileges, or authority under this chapter whatever.
111.19 ERECTION, REMOVAL AND COMMON USE OF POLES.
   1.   No poles or other wire-holding structures shall be erected by the
Grantee without approval of the City with regard to location, height, type, and
any other pertinent aspect. However, no structures shall be removed or modified
by the Grantee at its own expense whenever the City Council determines that the
public convenience would be enhanced thereby.
   2.   Where poles or other wire-holding structures already exist for use in
serving the City are available for use by the Grantee, but it does not make
arrangements for such use, the City Council may require the Grantee to use such
poles and structures if it determines that the public convenience would be
enhanced thereby and the terms of the use available to the Grantee are just and
reasonable.
   3.   Where the City or public utilities serving the City desire to make use
of the poles or other wire-holding structures of the Grantee but agreement
therefor with the Grantee cannot be reached, the City Council may require the
Grantee to permit such use for such consideration and upon terms as the Council
shall determine to be just and reasonable if the Council determines that use
would enhance the public convenience and would not unduly interfere with the
Grantee’s operations.
111.20 NUMBER OF CHANNELS.
   The Grantee’s satellite distribution system shall be capable of carrying at
least 14 television channels. Further, the Grantee shall provide a minimum of
12 channels of which one channel will be of a premium nature, subject to
approval of the Federal Communications Commission.
111.21 RATES.
   Rates and charges authorized for service under this chapter shall not be
changed by the Grantee without approval of the City Council. No fee shall be
charged to connect subscribers to the cable system within 60 days after the
first subscriber has been connected to the system upon completion of
construction of the system. Approval of the adjustment in rate shall be freely
provided by the City in order to provide for a fair and reasonable return from
the operation of Grantee’s system and such rates are consistent with the
general welfare of the public. Rate increases are effective immediately upon
approval of the City Council. If, in the future, the State of Iowa regulates
the rates of the Grantee for the service provided for in the franchise, this
section shall be of no effect during such State regulation to the extent of any
conflict therewith.
111.22 APPROVAL OF GRANTEE.
   The Grantee’s qualifications and the adequacy and feasibility of the
construction of a system have been approved by the City as part of a full
public proceeding according to due process.
111.23 MODIFICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   Any modification of the provisions of the applicable rules and regulations
of the Federal Communication Commission resulting from amendment by the
Commission shall be incorporated into this franchise agreement within one year
of the adoption of the modifications or at the intention of the provision to
fully comply with said rules and it being the intention of the City to insure
that the franchise conform to said rules.
CHAPTER 115
CEMETERY
 
115.01 Definition               115.05 Rules and Regulations
115.02 City Maintenance Worker  115.06 Burial Requirements
115.03 Records                  115.07 Burial of Persons on Private Property
115.04 Sale of Interment Rights
 
115.01 DEFINITION.
   The term “cemetery” means the Greenwood Cemetery, which is a municipal
cemetery under the provisions of Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa and which
shall be operated under the provisions of Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa and
this chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.501)
115.02 CITY MAINTENANCE WORKER.
   The City Maintenance Worker shall operate the cemetery in accordance with
the rules and regulations therefor and under the direction of the Council.
115.03 RECORDS.
   It is the duty of the Clerk to make and keep complete records identifying
the owners of all interment rights sold by the cemetery and historical
information regarding any transfers of ownership. The records shall include all
of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.311)
   1.   Sales or Transfers of Interment Rights.
      A.   The name and last known address of each owner or previous owner of
interment rights.
      B.   The date of each purchase or transfer of interment rights.
      C.   A unique numeric or alphanumeric identifier that identifies the
location of each interment space sold by the cemetery.
   2.   Interments.
      A.   The date the remains are interred.
      B.   The name, date of birth, and date of death of the decedent interred,
if those facts can be conveniently obtained.
      C.   A unique numeric or alphanumeric identifier that identifies the
location of each interment space where the remains are interred.
115.04 SALE OF INTERMENT RIGHTS.
   The sale or transfer of interment rights in the cemetery shall be evidenced
by a certificate of interment rights or other instrument evidencing the
conveyance of exclusive rights of interment upon payment in full of the
purchase price. The agreement for interment rights shall disclose all
information required by Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa. The payment of all
fees and charges shall be made at the office of the Clerk where receipts will
be issued for all amounts paid. Said fees and charges shall be based upon the
charges as established by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.310)
115.05 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Rules and regulations for the Greenwood Cemetery of the City of Pierson,
Woodbury County, Iowa shall be as follows:
   1.   Lots.
      A.   Purpose. All lots shall be held as burial places for the human dead,
and for no other purpose.
      B.   Sale of Lots. The term “lot owner” is intended to mean and shall be
construed as meaning the owner of burial privileges only and right of use in
any burial lot or fractional lot, purchased from the City of Pierson for a
consideration, evidenced by a deed or by a proved and recognized descendent.
Lots in Greenwood Cemetery are conveyed, by deed, for burial purposes only in
accordance with the cemetery rules and regulations in effect at the time of
burial. They are exempt from taxation and cannot be seized for debt, nor can
they be mortgaged. Deeds are issued after lot(s) are paid in full.
      C.   Sale by Owners. The City does not repurchase lots previously sold.
Lots may be donated back to the City with appropriate documentation of
ownership. Sale of lots by lot owners shall not be permitted except by
registration with Pierson City Hall.
      D.   Transfer by Owners. No transfer of a lot by sale or otherwise shall
be valid without registration with Pierson City Hall.
      E.   Lots Abandoned. City may file an action to quiet title to determine
whether lot has been abandoned if the lot is unoccupied in the preceding
seventy-five years. City must serve notice on the owner of record or the
owner’s heirs declaring the lot is considered to be abandoned. If the owner or
heirs do not respond within three years from the date that the notice is
service, the abandonment is considered to be complete. The ownership in or
right to an abandoned lot shall revert to the City and the City may sell and
convey title to the lot. Service of notice shall be served personally or by
mailing notice by certified mail at the last known address. If the address
cannot be ascertained, notice of abandonment shall be given by one publication
of the notice in the official newspaper of the City.
(Code Section 566.20 – 566.27 of the Code of Iowa)
   2.   Memorials.
      A.   Foundations. No memorial work of any kind shall be set without a
foundation. The term memorial means any stone, marker, monument marking a grave
site.
      B.   Memorials. The marker shall be set on the west edge of the lot line
with the marker facing west and every memorial shall have a foundation with a
five inch flange around said marker. All monuments, markers, and other items
shall be installed by a professional monument companies.
      C.   Settings for a single marker shall be centered in the space and
settings for a double marker shall be centered on the two lots.
      D.   All memorials must comply with cemetery rules. In the event of
noncompliance, the person installing the memorial is responsible for removal of
the memorial and shall pay any reasonable expenses incurred by the City in
connection with the memorial’s removal.
      E.   Faulty Installation. If a memorial sinks, tilts, or becomes
misaligned within twelve months of its installation, and the City believes the
cause is faulty installation, the City shall send notice to the person who
installed the memorial in writing. The person who installed the memorial shall
be responsible to correct the damage.
      F.   Responsibility. Contractors and workmen engaged in the setting of
memorials shall be held responsible for any and all damage done to the cemetery
grounds and shall be prohibited from attaching ropes to trees, shrubs or other
memorials and from scattering material on adjoining lots.
      G.   No memorial may be erected on any lot until the purchase price of
the lot and open/close fees, if appropriate, have been fully paid and a deed
issued for the same.
      H.   Maintenance of Grave Memorials. Maintenance of the cemetery does not
include repairs to a memorial which individually identifies a deceased. In the
event the monument or marker becomes hazardous or unsightly, the Council may
determine what action will be taken which may include removal of the monument
or marker.
      I.   The memorial is the private property of the owner and/or subsequent
heir(s). Each lot owner shall keep in good repair all memorial work upon his
lot. In case of failure to do so, the City may either repair or have repaired,
or remove the same at the lot owner’s expense. If the City is unable to locate
the owner and/or heir of a memorial which is in need of repair, the City may
authorize reasonable repairs to be paid for by the City. The City is not
obligated to repair a memorial to its approximate state when original. The City
has a right to remove a memorial that is in disrepair. The City is not
obligated to replace a memorial with the like or same.
   3.   Interment and Funerals.
      A.   Arrangements for interment shall be made with City Hall at least two
days prior to the interment.
      B.   Information Furnished. The person applying for the permit shall
furnish the following information: full name of deceased, date of interment,
location of grave, type of burial, outside size or dimensions of coffin or
vault, funeral home handling the service, and next of kin information.
      C.   Burial. Lot owners, or their heirs, desiring graves opened will be
required to exhibit the deed for the lot or give other satisfactory evidence of
ownership. If an order is given for the interment of a person who is not a
member of the immediate family, permission in writing from the lot owner, or if
deceased, their immediate heirs, must be filed at City Hall and such permission
shall not be for renumeration. The City is not liable for relying upon such
written declaration of ownership and/or permission if due diligence is
exercised.
      D.   Removal of Bodies. The same information shall be required when a
body is removed from one part of the cemetery to another as prescribed for
permits for interment. Lot owners, or their heirs shall secure the necessary
disinterment permit from the State and deliver the same to City Hall. Person,
or persons, seeking reopening of a grave will be responsible for all costs
related to the reopening.
      E.   Removal of Cremains. In the event the City receives cremated remains
for disposition that are not presented to the City in a permanent urn or other
permanent-type storage device, it is not possible after these cremains are
disposed of to ensure that the cremains can be located in the future. The City
assumes no responsibility for the location of cremains disposed in anything
other than a permanent structure. Those electing to direct disposition in such
a fashion assume any and all risks associated with the disposition and
subsequent inability to locate the same.
      F.   Graves Dug. All graves shall be dug under the direction of City
employees and the charges therefore shall include the opening and closing of
the graves, as well as sodding or seeding the area after proper settling of the
ground has taken place.
      G.   Undertaker’s Orders. When an undertaker having charge of burial
orders the location of a grave, no change of location, after interment, shall
be made, except at the expense of the lot owner. The City of Pierson shall not
be responsible for want of precise and proper instructions as to the location
of a grave.
      H.   Interment Location Incorrect. If the lot owner or funeral home
incorrectly identified the lot location, the lot owner will pay the expense
after the opening of the incorrect grave has begun. If the City incorrectly
identified the lot location based on the City’s records, the City will pay the
expense after the opening of the incorrect grave has begun. The City is not
civilly or criminally liable for an erroneously made interment that is
corrected in compliance with State law unless the error was the result of gross
negligence or intentional misconduct.
      I.   Burials Allowed. The interment of one standard vault burial, one
standard vault burial and one cremain or two cremain burials is the maximum
allowed in one lot. The spreading of cremated remains above ground is strictly
prohibited.
      J.   Opening Graves on Sunday. Graves opened on Sundays or legal holidays
shall be at double the normal fee.
      K.   Interments on Sunday. Interments made on Sundays or legal holidays
shall be charged an additional $125.00.
      L.   Vault. The placement of a casket in the cemetery must be in a
concrete or steel container. Vaults are not required for cremains.
      M.   For sanitary reasons, graves will not be opened for inspection
except for official investigation. Person, or persons, seeking reopening of a
grave will be responsible for all costs related to the reopening.
      N.   Death by Contagious Disease. Interment of a human body when death
was caused by a contagious disease shall be in strict accordance with the rules
of the State Board of Health.
      O.   The City shall in no way be liable for any delay in the interment of
a body where a protest to the interment has been made. Protest of interment
shall not be valid unless it is in writing and filed with the City Clerk.
      P.   More Than One Burial. When more than one burial occurs in a one or
two day period, City employees shall schedule them in as prompt and efficient a
manner as possible, working in close cooperation with the funeral director(s).
      Q.   City representatives or their designee shall attend every interment
and see that the rules, regulations and strict properties of the cemetery are
observed.
   4.   Visitors.
      A.   Hours. Visitors shall be admitted to the grounds between sunrise and
sundown but no visitors or vehicles shall be permitted on the grounds between
sundown and sunrise.
      B.   Trespassing and Vandalism Not Allowed. Any person who trespasses
upon Greenwood Cemetery by defacing, damaging, destroying or removing any
memorial or other form of notification identifying the location of the
deceased, grave, burial, or other form of interment; or any grounds or
vegetation (flower, shrub, tree, etc.); or physical improvements (fence, gate,
sidewalk, building, etc.); or anything in or belonging to the cemetery/City, is
guilty of a misdemeanor and liable for any and all damage.
      C.   Fire Arms. The carrying or discharging of fire arms by any person on
the grounds of the cemetery is prohibited, except at military funerals.
      D.   Dogs. No dogs shall be allowed in the cemetery.
      E.   Vehicles. No automobiles, bicycles or other vehicles shall be driven
off the roadways or driveways. All vehicles must proceed at slow speed and be
kept under complete control at all times.
      F.   Entrance Through Gates. No person shall enter the cemetery except
through duly established gateways.
      G.   Deposit of Rubbish. No person shall deposit rubbish, papers, dried
flowers or other waste upon the cemetery grounds.
      H.   Greenwood limits the placement of flowers or decorations on graves
from two weeks before Memorial Day to two weeks after Memorial Day. After that
date any flowers or decorations will be disposed of. Exceptions to this rule
are flowers in vases or urns that are part of the memorial stones.
      I.   Complaints/questions should be directed to City Hall.
   5.   Prices, Fees, and Dues.
      A.   Sale Price of Lots. Current pricing is $250.00 per single grave.
      B.   Interment Fees. Interment fees include the opening, closing and
seeding or sodding of graves and shall be as follows:
         (1)   Regular graves (larger than 2’ by 2’)…………….$500.00
         (2)   Winter rate regular burial………………………….600.00
         (3)   Cremated remains in containers (in ground)………200.00
         (4)   Winter cremations…………………………………250.00
      Fees for grave opening or interment on Sundays or legal holidays are
double the normal rate.
      C.   Saturday Service Fee. Additional fee for services on Saturday
$125.00.
      D.   Fees may be changed by City Council from time to time, without
advance notice, to conform with current economic conditions.
(Section 115.05 – Ord. 164 – Dec. 19 Supp.)
115.06 BURIAL REQUIREMENTS.
(Repealed by Ordinance No. 164 – Dec. 19 Supp.)
115.07 BURIAL OF PERSONS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.  
   It is unlawful for any individual or entity to bury persons on private
property within the Pierson City limits, except in a legally registered
cemetery.
(Ord. 186 – Oct. 23 Supp.)
CHAPTER 120
BEER, LIQUOR, AND WINE CONTROL
 
120.01 General Prohibition     120.04 Open Containers in Motor Vehicles
120.02 Persons Under Legal Age 120.05 License or Permit Required
120.03 Public Consumption or   120.06 Social Host
Intoxication
 
120.01 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, sell, offer or keep for sale,
possess, or transport alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer except upon terms,
conditions, limitations, and restrictions enumerated in State law and this Code
of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.2)
120.02 PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
   As used in this section, “legal age” means 21 years of age or more.  
   1.   A person or persons under legal age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase, consume, or individually or jointly have alcoholic liquor, wine or
beer in their possession or control; except in the case of liquor, wine or beer
given or dispensed to a person under legal age within a private home and with
the knowledge, presence and consent of the parent or guardian, for beverage or
medicinal purposes or as administered to the person by either a physician or
dentist for medicinal purposes and except to the extent that a person under
legal age may handle alcoholic beverages, wine, and beer during the regular
course of the person’s employment by a liquor control licensee, or wine or beer
permittee under State laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47[2])
   2.   A person under legal age shall not misrepresent the person’s age for
the purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic beverage,
wine, or beer from any licensee or permittee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[3])
120.03 PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OR INTOXICATION.
   1.   As used in this section unless the context otherwise requires:
      A.   “Arrest” means the same as defined in Section 804.5 of the Code of
Iowa and includes taking into custody pursuant to Section 232.19 of the Code of
Iowa.
      B.   “Chemical test” means a test of a person’s blood, breath, or urine
to determine the percentage of alcohol present by a qualified person using
devices and methods approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
      C.   “Peace officer” means the same as defined in Section 801.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
      D.   “School” means a public or private school or that portion of a
public or private school which provides teaching for any grade from
kindergarten through grade twelve.
   2.   A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor, wine or beer upon
the public streets or highways. A person shall not use or consume alcoholic
liquor in any public place, except premises covered by a liquor control
license. A person shall not possess or consume alcoholic liquors, wine, or beer
on public school property or while attending any public or private school-
related function. A person shall not be intoxicated in a public place.
   3.   A person shall not simulate intoxication in a public place.
   4.   When a peace officer arrests a person on a charge of public
intoxication under this section, the peace officer shall inform the person that
the person may have a chemical test administered at the person’s own expense.
If a device approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety for testing a sample
of a person’s breath to determine the person’s blood alcohol concentration is
available, that is the only test that need be offered the person arrested. In a
prosecution for public intoxication, evidence of the results of a chemical test
performed under this subsection is admissible upon proof of a proper
foundation. The percentage of alcohol present in a person’s blood, breath, or
urine established by the results of a chemical test performed within two hours
after the person’s arrest on a charge of public intoxication is presumed to be
the percentage of alcohol present at the time of arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.46)
120.04 OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   [See Section
62.01(6) of this Code of Ordinances.]
120.05 LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, sell, offer or keep
for sale, possess or transport alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer without first
securing a liquor control license, wine permit, or beer permit in accordance
with the provisions of Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.2 and 123.171)
120.06 SOCIAL HOST.
   A person who is the owner or lessee of, or who otherwise has control over,
property that is not a licensed premises shall not knowingly permit any person,
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the person to be under the age of
eighteen, to consume or possess on such property any alcoholic liquor, wine, or
beer. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a landlord or
manager of the property or to a person under legal age who consumes or
possesses any alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer in connection with a religious
observance, ceremony, or rite.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47[1A])
CHAPTER 121
CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO PERMITS
 
121.01 Definitions             121.06 Refunds
121.02 Permit Required         121.07 Persons Under Legal Age
121.03 Application             121.08 Self-Service Sales Prohibited
121.04 Fees                    121.09 Permit Revocation
121.05 Issuance and Expiration
 
121.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.1)
   1.   “Alternative nicotine product” means a product, not consisting of or
containing tobacco, that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing, or
by any other means. “Alternative nicotine product” does not include cigarettes,
tobacco products, or vapor products, or a product that is regulated as a drug
or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   2.   “Cigarette” means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of
tobacco, or any substitute for tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and
irrespective of tobacco or any substitute for tobacco being flavored,
adulterated or mixed with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper
or cover made of paper or any other material. However, cigarette shall not be
construed to include cigars.
   3.   “Place of business” means any place where cigarettes or tobacco
products are sold, stored or kept for the purpose of sale or consumption by a
retailer.
   4.   “Retailer” means every person who sells, distributes or offers for sale
for consumption, or possesses for the purpose of sale for consumption,
cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products, irrespective of
the quantity or amount or the number of sales, or who engages in the business
of selling tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products to ultimate consumers.
   5.   “Self-service display” means any manner of product display, placement,
or storage from which a person purchasing the product may take possession of
the product, prior to purchase, without assistance from the retailer or
employee of the retailer, in removing the product from a restricted access
location.
   6.   “Tobacco products” means the following: cigars; little cigars;
cheroots; stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed and
other smoking tobacco; snuff; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and
other chewing tobaccos; shorts or refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings and
sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such
manner as to be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or for
both chewing and smoking, but does not mean cigarettes.
   7.   “Vapor product” means any noncombustible product, which may or may not
contain nicotine, that employs a heating element, power source, electronic
circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of
shape or size, that can be used to produce vapor from a solution or other
substance. “Vapor product” includes an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device, and any
cartridge or other container of a solution or other substance, which may or may
not contain nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar
product or device. “Vapor product” does not include a product regulated as a
drug or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter
V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
121.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   1.   Retail Cigarette Permits. It is unlawful for any person, other than a
holder of a retail permit, to sell cigarettes, alternative nicotine products,
or vapor products at retail and no retailer shall distribute, sell, or solicit
the sale of any cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products
within the City without a valid permit for each place of business. The permit
shall, at all times, be publicly displayed at the place of business so as to be
easily seen by the public and the persons authorized to inspect the place of
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13)
   2.   Retail Tobacco Permits. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a retailer of tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products at any place of business without first having
received a permit as a retailer for each place of business owned or operated by
the retailer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A)
   A retailer who holds a retail cigarette permit is not required to also
obtain a retail tobacco permit. However, if a retailer only holds a retail
cigarette permit and that permit is suspended, revoked, or expired, the
retailer shall not sell any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products, during such time.
121.03 APPLICATION.
   A completed application on forms furnished by the State Department of
Revenue or on forms made available or approved by the Department and
accompanied by the required fee shall be filed with the Clerk. Renewal
applications shall be filed at least five days prior to the last regular
meeting of the Council in June. If a renewal application is not timely filed,
and a special Council meeting is called to act on the application, the costs of
such special meeting shall be paid by the applicant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.04 FEES.
   The fee for a retail cigarette or tobacco permit shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
 
FOR PERMITS GRANTED DURING:   FEE:
July, August or September     $ 75.00
October, November or December $ 56.25
January, February or March    $ 37.50
April, May or June            $ 18.75
 
121.05 ISSUANCE AND EXPIRATION.
   Upon proper application and payment of the required fee, a permit shall be
issued. Each permit issued shall describe clearly the place of business for
which it is issued and shall be nonassignable. All permits expire on June 30 of
each year. The Clerk shall submit a duplicate of any application for a permit
to the Iowa Department of Revenue within 30 days of issuance of a permit.
(Ord. 187 – Oct. 23 Supp.)
121.06 REFUNDS.
   A retailer may surrender an unrevoked permit and receive a refund from the
City, except during April, May, or June, in accordance with the schedule of
refunds as provided in Section 453A.13 or 453A.47A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, 453A.13 & 453A.47A)
121.07 PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
   No person shall sell, give, or otherwise supply any tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes to any
person under 18 years of age. The provision of this section includes
prohibiting a minor from purchasing tobacco, tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, vapor products, and cigarettes from a vending machine. If a
retailer or employee of a retailer violates the provisions of this section, the
Council shall, after written notice and hearing, and in addition to the other
penalties fixed for such violation, assess the following:
   1.   For a first violation, the retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty
in the amount of $300.00. Failure to pay the civil penalty as ordered under
this subsection shall result in automatic suspension of the permit for a period
of 14 days.
   2.   For a second violation within a period of two years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 or the retailer’s permit
shall be suspended for a period of 30 days. The retailer may select its
preference in the penalty to be applied under this subsection.
   3.   For a third violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.
   4.   For a fourth violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 60 days.
   5.   For a fifth violation within a period of four years, the retailer’s
permit shall be revoked.
   The Clerk shall give 10 days’ written notice to the retailer by mailing a
copy of the notice to the place of business as it appears on the application
for a permit. The notice shall state the reason for the contemplated action and
the time and place at which the retailer may appear and be heard.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2, 453A.22 and 453A.36[6])
121.08 SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED.
   Except for the sale of cigarettes through a cigarette vending machine as
provided in Section 453A.36[6] of the Code of Iowa, a retailer shall not sell
or offer for sale tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products, or cigarettes through the use of a self-service display.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.36A)
121.09 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, as provided by
the Code of Iowa, the Council may also revoke a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter for a violation of Division I of Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or
any rule adopted thereunder. If a permit is revoked, a new permit shall not be
issued to the permit holder for any place of business, or to any other person
for the place of business at which the violation occurred, until one year has
expired from the date of revocation, unless good cause to the contrary is shown
to the Council. The Clerk shall report the revocation or suspension of a retail
permit to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce within
30 days of the revocation or suspension.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.22)
CHAPTER 122
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
 
122.01 Purpose                 122.07 Display of License
122.02 Definitions             122.08 License Not Transferable
122.03 License Required        122.09 Time Restriction
122.04 Application for License 122.10 Revocation of License
122.05 Bond Required           122.11 License Exemptions
122.06 License Issued          122.12 Charitable and Nonprofit Organizations
 
122.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect residents of the City against
fraud, unfair competition, and intrusion into the privacy of their homes by
licensing and regulating peddlers, solicitors, and transient merchants.
122.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Peddler” means any person carrying goods or merchandise who sells or
offers for sale for immediate delivery such goods or merchandise from house to
house or upon the public street.
   2.   “Solicitor” means any person who solicits or attempts to solicit from
house to house or upon the public street any contribution or donation or any
order for goods, services, subscriptions or merchandise to be delivered at a
future date.
   3.   “Transient merchant” means any person who engages in a temporary or
itinerant merchandising business and in the course of such business hires,
leases or occupies any building or structure whatsoever, or who operates out of
a vehicle which is parked anywhere within the City limits. Temporary
association with a local merchant, dealer, trader or auctioneer, or conduct of
such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any
local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer does not exempt any person from
being considered a transient merchant.
122.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person engaging in peddling, soliciting or in the business of a
transient merchant in the City without first obtaining a license as herein
provided is in violation of this chapter.
122.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An application in writing shall be filed with the City Clerk for a license
under this chapter. Such application shall set forth the applicant’s name,
permanent and local address, and business address if any. The application shall
also set forth the applicant’s employer, if any, and the employer’s address,
the nature of the applicant’s business, the last three places of such business
and the length of time sought to be covered by the license. An application fee
of five dollars ($5.00) shall be paid at the time of filing such application to
cover the cost of investigating the facts stated therein.
122.05 BOND REQUIRED.
   Before a license under this chapter is issued to a transient merchant, an
applicant shall provide to the Clerk evidence that the applicant has filed a
bond with the Secretary of State in accordance with Chapter 9C of the Code of
Iowa.
122.06 LICENSE ISSUED.
   If the City Clerk finds the application is completed in conformance with the
requirements of this chapter and the facts stated therein are found to be
correct, a license shall be issued.
122.07 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Each solicitor or peddler shall keep such license in possession at all times
while doing business in the City and shall, upon the request of prospective
customers, exhibit the license as evidence of compliance with all requirements
of this chapter. Each transient merchant shall display publicly such merchant’s
license in the merchant’s place of business.
122.08 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter are not transferable in
any situation and are to be applicable only to the person filing the
application.
122.09 TIME RESTRICTION.
   All peddler’s and solicitor’s licenses shall provide that said licenses are
in force and effect only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
122.10 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, the Council may
revoke any license issued pursuant to this chapter for the following reasons:
   1.   Fraudulent Statements. The licensee has made fraudulent statements in
the application for the license or in the conduct of the business.
   2.   Violation of Law. The licensee has violated this chapter or has
otherwise conducted the business in an unlawful manner.
   3.   Endangered Public Welfare, Health, or Safety. The licensee has
conducted the business in such manner as to endanger the public welfare,
safety, order, or morals.
   The City Clerk shall send the written notice to the licensee at the
licensee’s local address. The notice shall contain particulars of the
complaints against the licensee, the ordinance provisions or State statutes
allegedly violated, and the date, time and place for hearing on the matter.
122.11 LICENSE EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are excluded from the application of this chapter.
   1.   Newspapers. Persons delivering, collecting for, or selling
subscriptions to newspapers.
   2.   Club Members. Members of local civic and service clubs, Boy Scout, Girl
Scout, 4-H Clubs, Future Farmers of America, and similar organizations.
   3.   Local Residents and Farmers. Local residents and farmers who offer for
sale their own products.
   4.   Students. Students representing the Kingsley-Pierson School District
conducting projects sponsored by organizations recognized by the school.
   5.   Route Sales. Route delivery persons who only incidentally solicit
additional business or make special sales.
   6.   Resale or Institutional Use. Persons customarily calling on businesses
or institutions for the purposes of selling products for resale or
institutional use.
122.12 CHARITABLE AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
   Authorized representatives of charitable or nonprofit organizations
operating under the provisions of Chapter 504 of the Code of Iowa desiring to
solicit money or to distribute literature are exempt from the operation of
Section
122.04. All such organizations are required to submit in writing to the City
Clerk the name and purpose of the cause for which such activities are sought,
names and addresses of the officers and directors of the organization, the
period during which such activities are to be carried on, and whether any
commissions, fees or wages are to be charged by the solicitor and the amount
thereof. If the City Clerk finds that the organization is a bona fide charity
or nonprofit organization the City Clerk shall issue, a license containing the
above information to the applicant. In the event the City Clerk denies the
exemption, the authorized representatives of the organization may appeal the
decision to the Council.
CHAPTER 135
STREET USE AND MAINTENANCE
 
135.01 Removal of Warning Devices 135.08 Burning Prohibited
135.02 Obstructing or Defacing    135.09 Excavations
135.03 Placing Debris On          135.10 Property Owner’s Responsibility for
                                  Maintenance
135.04 Playing In                 135.11 Failure to Maintain
135.05 Traveling on Barricaded    135.12 Dumping of Snow
Street or Alley
135.06 Use for Business Purposes  135.13 Driveway Culverts
135.07 Washing Vehicles
 
135.01 REMOVAL OF WARNING DEVICES.
   It is unlawful for a person to willfully remove, throw down, destroy or
carry away from any street or alley any lamp, obstruction, guard or other
article or things, or extinguish any lamp or other light, erected or placed
thereupon for the purpose of guarding or enclosing unsafe or dangerous places
in said street or alley without the consent of the person in control thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.02 OBSTRUCTING OR DEFACING.
   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, deface or injure any street or
alley in any manner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.03 PLACING DEBRIS ON.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street or alley any
glass, glass bottle, nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter,
offal, leaves, grass or any other debris likely to be washed into the storm
sewer and clog the storm sewer, or any substance likely to injure any person,
animal or vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.369)
135.04 PLAYING IN.
   It is unlawful for any person to coast, sled, or play games on streets or
alleys, except in the areas blocked off by the City for such purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.05 TRAVELING ON BARRICADED STREET OR ALLEY.
   It is unlawful for any person to travel or operate any vehicle on any street
or alley temporarily closed by barricades, lights, signs, or flares placed
thereon by the authority or permission of any City official, police officer or
member of the Fire Department.
135.06 USE FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.
   It is unlawful to park, store or place, temporarily or permanently, any
machinery or junk or any other goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind upon
any street or alley for the purpose of storage, exhibition, sale or offering
same for sale, without permission of the Council.
135.07 WASHING VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to use any public sidewalk, street, or alley
for the purpose of washing or cleaning any automobile, truck equipment, or any
vehicle of any kind when such work is done for hire or as a business. This does
not prevent any person from washing or cleaning his or her own vehicle or
equipment when it is lawfully parked in the street or alley.
135.08 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall burn any trash, leaves, rubbish, or other combustible
material in any curb and gutter or on any paved or surfaced street or alley.
135.09 EXCAVATIONS.
   No person shall dig, excavate, or in any manner disturb any street, parking
or alley except in accordance with the following:
   1.   Permit Required. No excavation shall be commenced without first
obtaining a permit therefor. A written application for such permit shall be
filed with the City and shall contain the following:
      A.   An exact description of the property, by lot and street number, in
front of or along which it is desired to excavate;
      B.   A statement of the purpose, for whom and by whom the excavation is
to be made;
      C.   The person responsible for the refilling of said excavation and
restoration of the street or alley surface; and
      D.   Date of commencement of the work and estimated completion date.
   2.   Public Convenience. Streets and alleys shall be opened in the manner
which will cause the least inconvenience to the public and admit the
uninterrupted passage of water along the gutter on the street.
   3.   Barricades, Fencing and Lighting. Adequate barricades, fencing and
warning lights meeting standards specified by the City shall be so placed as to
protect the public from hazard. Any costs incurred by the City in providing or
maintaining adequate barricades, fencing or warning lights shall be paid to the
City by the permit holder/property owner.
   4.   Insurance Required. Each applicant shall also file a certificate of
insurance indicating that the applicant is carrying public liability insurance
in effect for the duration of the permit covering the applicant and all agents
and employees for the following minimum amounts:
      A.   Bodily Injury - $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
      B.   Property Damage - $50,000.00 per accident.
   5.   Restoration of Public Property. Streets, sidewalks, alleys and other
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored to the
condition of the property prior to the commencement of the work, or in a manner
satisfactory to the City, at the expense of the permit holder/property owner.
   6.   Inspection. All work shall be subject to inspection by the City.
Backfill shall not be deemed completed, and no resurfacing of any improved
street or alley surface shall begin, until such backfill is inspected and
approved by the City. The permit holder/property owner shall provide the City
with notice at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the time when inspection
of backfill is desired.
   7.   Completion by the City. Should any excavation in any street or alley be
discontinued or left open and unfinished for a period of twenty-four (24) hours
after the approved completion date, or in the event the work is improperly
done, the City has the right to finish or correct the excavation work and
charge any expenses therefor to the permit holder/property owner.
   8.   Responsibility for Costs. All costs and expenses incident to the
excavation shall be borne by the permit holder and/or property owner. The
permit holder and owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by such excavation.
   9.   Notification. At least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the
excavation, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, the person
performing the excavation shall contact the Statewide Notification Center and
provide the center with the information required under Section 480.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
   10.   Permit Issued. Upon approval of the application and filing of
insurance certificate, a permit shall be issued. A separate permit shall be
required for each excavation.
135.10 PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   The abutting property owner shall maintain all property outside the lot and
property lines and inside the curb lines upon public streets and shall keep
such area in a safe condition, free from nuisances, obstructions, and hazards.
In the absence of a curb, such property shall extend from the property line to
that portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes.The
abutting property owner shall not be required to remove diseased trees or dead
wood on the publicly owned property or right-of-way.Maintenance includes, but
is not limited to, timely mowing, trimming trees and shrubs, and picking up
litter and debris. The abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused
by failure to maintain the publicly owned property or right-of-way.† 7
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: See also Section
7 136.04 relating to property owner’s responsibility for maintenance of
  sidewalks.
135.11 FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
   If the abutting property owner does not perform an action required under the
above section within a reasonable time, the City may perform the required
action and assess the cost against the abutting property for collection in the
same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2e])
135.12 DUMPING OF SNOW.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, push, or place or cause to be
thrown, pushed or placed, any ice or snow from private property, sidewalks, or
driveways onto the traveled way of a street or alley so as to obstruct gutters,
or impede the passage of vehicles upon the street or alley or to create a
hazardous condition therein; except where, in the cleaning of large commercial
drives in the business district it is absolutely necessary to move the snow
onto the street or alley temporarily, such accumulation shall be removed
promptly by the property owner or agent. Arrangements for the prompt removal of
such accumulations shall be made prior to moving the snow.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.13 DRIVEWAY CULVERTS.
   The property owner shall, at the owner’s expense, install any culvert deemed
necessary under any driveway or any other access to the owner’s property, and
before installing a culvert, permission must first be obtained from the City.
In the event repairs are needed at any time with respect to culverts, it shall
be the responsibility of the property owner to make such repairs, and, in the
event the owner fails to do so, the City shall have the right to make the
repairs. If the property owner fails to reimburse the City for the cost of said
repairs, the cost shall be certified to the County Treasurer and specially
assessed against the property as by law provided.
CHAPTER 136
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
136.01 Purpose                        136.11 Interference with Sidewalk
                                      Improvements
136.02 Definitions                    136.12 Awnings
136.03 Removal of Snow, Ice, and      136.13 Encroaching Steps
Accumulations
136.04 Responsibility for Maintenance 136.14 Openings and Enclosures
136.05 City May Order Repairs         136.15 Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
136.06 Sidewalk Construction Ordered  136.16 Defacing
136.07 Permit Required                136.17 Debris on Sidewalks
136.08 Sidewalk Standards             136.18 Merchandise Display
136.09 Barricades and Warning Lights  136.19 Sales Stands
136.10 Failure to Repair or Barricade
 
136.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to enhance safe passage by citizens on
sidewalks, to place the responsibility for the maintenance, repair,
replacement, or reconstruction of sidewalks upon the abutting property owner
and to minimize the liability of the City.
136.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Broom finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by sweeping the
sidewalk when it is hardening.
   2.   “Defective sidewalk” means any public sidewalk exhibiting one or more
of the following characteristics:
      A.   Vertical separations equal to three-fourths (¾) inch or more.
      B.   Horizontal separations equal to three-fourths (¾) inch or more.
      C.   Holes or depressions equal to three-fourths (¾) inch or more and at
least four (4) inches in diameter.
      D.   Spalling over fifty percent (50%) of a single square of the sidewalk
with one or more depressions equal to one-half (½) inch or more.
      E.   Spalling over less than fifty percent (50%) of a single square of
the sidewalk with one or more depressions equal to three-fourths (¾) inch or
more.
      F.   A single square of sidewalk cracked in such a manner that no part
thereof has a piece greater than one square foot.
      G.   A sidewalk with any part thereof missing to the full depth.
      H.   A change from the design or construction grade equal to or greater
than three-fourths (¾) inch per foot.
The Mayor will inspect sidewalks when issues arise.
   3.   “Established grade” means that grade established by the City for the
particular area in which a sidewalk is to be constructed.
   4.   “One-course construction” means that the full thickness of the concrete
is placed at one time, using the same mixture throughout.
   5.   “Owner” means the person owning the fee title to property abutting any
sidewalk and includes any contract purchaser for purposes of notification
required herein. For all other purposes, “owner” includes the lessee, if any.
   6.   “Portland cement” means any type of cement except bituminous cement.
   7.   “Sidewalk” means all permanent public walks in business, residential or
suburban areas.
   8.   “Sidewalk improvements” means the construction, reconstruction, repair,
replacement, or removal, of a public sidewalk and/or the excavating, filling or
depositing of material in the public right-of-way in connection therewith.
   9.   “Wood float finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by smoothing
the surface of the sidewalk with a wooden trowel.
136.03 REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, AND ACCUMULATIONS.
   It is the responsibility of the abutting property owners to remove snow,
ice, and accumulations promptly from sidewalks. If a property owner does not
remove snow, ice, or accumulations within ten hours, the City may do so and
assess the costs against the property owner for collection in the same manner
as a property tax. Property owners in both business and residential sections of
Pierson are liable to pedestrians for injuries due to the failure to keep their
sidewalks clear of snow and ice.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2b & e])
(Ord. 136 – Dec. 11 Supp.)
136.04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   It is the responsibility of the abutting property owners to repair, replace
or reconstruct, or cause to be repaired, replaced or reconstructed, all broken
or defective sidewalks and to maintain in a safe and hazard-free condition any
sidewalk outside the lot and property lines and inside the curb lines or
traveled portion of the public street. The property owner or owners are liable
for injuries to pedestrians due to their failure to keep their sidewalks in
property repair.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
(Ord. 136 – Dec. 11 Supp.)
136.05 CITY MAY ORDER REPAIRS.
   If the abutting property owner does not maintain sidewalks as required, the
Council may serve notice on such owner, by certified mail, requiring the owner
to repair, replace or reconstruct sidewalks within a reasonable time and if
such action is not completed within the time stated in the notice, the Council
may require the work to be done and assess the costs against the abutting
property for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2d & e])
136.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION ORDERED.
   The Council may order the construction of permanent sidewalks upon any
street or court in the City and may specially assess the cost of such
improvement to abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 384 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.38)
136.07 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall remove, reconstruct, or install a sidewalk unless such
person has obtained a permit from the City and has agreed in writing that said
removal, reconstruction, or installation will comply with all ordinances and
requirements of the City for such work. A written application for such permit
shall be filed with the City and shall be accompanied by a permit fee of
$10.00.
136.08 SIDEWALK STANDARDS.
   Sidewalks repaired, replaced, or constructed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be of the following construction and meet the following
standards:
   1.   Cement. Portland cement shall be the only cement used in the
construction and repair of sidewalks.
   2.   Construction. Sidewalks shall be of one-course construction.
   3.   Sidewalk Base. Concrete may be placed directly on compact and well-
drained soil. Where soil is not well drained, a three-inch sub-base of compact,
clean, coarse gravel or sand shall be laid. The adequacy of the soil drainage
is to be determined by the City.
   4.   Sidewalk Bed. The sidewalk bed shall be so graded that the constructed
sidewalk will be at established grade.
   5.   Length, Width and Depth. Length, width and depth requirements are as
follows:
      A.   Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide and four
inches thick, and each section shall be no more than four feet in length.
      B.   Business District sidewalks shall extend from the property line to
the curb. Each section shall be four inches thick and no more than six feet in
length.
      C.   Driveway areas shall be not less than six inches in thickness.
   6.   Location. Residential sidewalks shall be located with the inner edge
(edge nearest the abutting private property) on the property line, unless the
Council establishes a different distance due to special circumstances.
   7.   Grade. Curb tops shall be on level with the centerline of the street
which shall be the established grade.
   8.   Elevations. The street edge of a sidewalk shall be at an elevation even
with the curb at the curb or not less than one-half inch above the curb for
each foot between the curb and the sidewalk.
   9.   Slope. All sidewalks shall slope one-quarter inch per foot toward the
curb.
   10.   Finish. All sidewalks shall be finished with a “broom” or “wood float”
finish.
   11.   Curb Ramps and Sloped Areas for Persons with Disabilities. If a
street, road, or highway is newly built or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped
area shall be constructed or installed at each intersection of the street,
road, or highway with a sidewalk or path. If a sidewalk or path is newly built
or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped area shall be constructed or installed
at each intersection of the sidewalk or path with a street, highway, or road.
Curb ramps and sloped areas that are required pursuant to this subsection shall
be constructed or installed in compliance with applicable federal requirements
adopted in accordance with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act,
including (but not limited to) the guidelines issued by the Federal
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 216C.9)
136.09 BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   Whenever any material of any kind is deposited on any street, avenue,
highway, passageway or alley when sidewalk improvements are being made or when
any sidewalk is in a dangerous condition, it shall be the duty of all persons
having an interest therein, either as the contractor or the owner, agent, or
lessee of the property in front of or along which such material may be
deposited, or such dangerous condition exists, to put in conspicuous places at
each end of such sidewalk and at each end of any pile of material deposited in
the street, a sufficient number of approved warning lights or flares, and to
keep them lighted during the entire night and to erect sufficient barricades
both at night and in the daytime to secure the same. The party or parties using
the street for any of the purposes specified in this chapter shall be liable
for all injuries or damage to persons or property arising from any wrongful act
or negligence of the party or parties, or their agents or employees or for any
misuse of the privileges conferred by this chapter or of any failure to comply
with provisions hereof.
136.10 FAILURE TO REPAIR OR BARRICADE.
   It is the duty of the owner of the property abutting the sidewalk, or the
owner’s contractor or agent, to notify the City immediately in the event of
failure or inability to make necessary sidewalk improvements or to install or
erect necessary barricades as required by this chapter.
136.11 INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
   No person shall knowingly or willfully drive any vehicle upon any portion of
any sidewalk or approach thereto while in the process of being improved or upon
any portion of any completed sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove or
destroy any part or all of any sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove,
destroy, mar or deface any sidewalk at any time or destroy, mar, remove or
deface any notice provided by this chapter.
136.12 AWNINGS.
   It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any awning over any
sidewalk unless all parts of the awning are elevated at least eight feet above
the surface of the sidewalk and the roof or covering is made of duck, canvas or
other suitable material supported by iron frames or brackets securely fastened
to the building, without any posts or other device that will obstruct the
sidewalk or hinder or interfere with the free passage of pedestrians.
136.13 ENCROACHING STEPS.
   It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any stairs or steps to any
building upon any part of any sidewalk without permission by resolution of the
Council.
136.14 OPENINGS AND ENCLOSURES.
   It is unlawful for a person to:
   1.   Stairs and Railings. Construct or build a stairway or passageway to any
cellar or basement by occupying any part of the sidewalk, or to enclose any
portion of a sidewalk with a railing without permission by resolution of the
Council.
   2.   Openings. Keep open any cellar door, grating, or cover to any vault on
any sidewalk except while in actual use with adequate guards to protect the
public.
   3.   Protect Openings. Neglect to properly protect or barricade all openings
on or within six feet of any sidewalk.
136.15 FIRES OR FUEL ON SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for a person to make a fire of any kind on any sidewalk or to
place or allow any fuel to remain upon any sidewalk.
136.16 DEFACING.
   It is unlawful for a person to scatter or place any paste, paint, or writing
on any sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
136.17 DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for a person to throw or deposit on any sidewalk any glass,
nails, glass bottle, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, offal,
or any other debris, or any substance likely to injure any person, animal, or
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
136.18 MERCHANDISE DISPLAY.
   It is unlawful for a person to place upon or above any sidewalk, any goods
or merchandise for sale or for display in such a manner as to interfere with
the free and uninterrupted passage of pedestrians on the sidewalk; in no case
shall more than three (3) feet of the sidewalk next to the building be occupied
for such purposes.
136.19 SALES STANDS.
   It is unlawful for a person to erect or keep any vending machine or stand
for the sale of fruit, vegetables or other substances or commodities on any
sidewalk without first obtaining a written permit from the Council.
CHAPTER 137
VACATION AND DISPOSAL OF STREETS
 
137.01 Power to Vacate            137.04 Disposal of Vacated Streets or Alleys
137.02 Notice of Vacation Hearing 137.05 Disposal by Gift Limited
137.03 Findings Required
 
137.01 POWER TO VACATE.
   When, in the judgment of the Council, it would be in the best interest of
the City to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof or any public grounds, the
Council may do so by ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12 [2a])
137.02 NOTICE OF VACATION HEARING.
   The Council shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing of the
time at which the proposal to vacate shall be considered.
137.03 FINDINGS REQUIRED.
   No street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds shall be vacated
unless the Council finds that:
   1.   Public Use. The street, alley, portion thereof or any public ground
proposed to be vacated is not needed for the use of the public, and therefore,
its maintenance at public expense is no longer justified.
   2.   Abutting Property. The proposed vacation will not deny owners of
property abutting on the street or alley reasonable access to their property.
137.04 DISPOSAL OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   When in the judgment of the Council it would be in the best interest of the
City to dispose of a vacated street or alley, portion thereof or public ground,
the Council may do so in accordance with the provisions of Section 364.7, Code
of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7)
137.05 DISPOSAL BY GIFT LIMITED.
   The City may not dispose of real property by gift except to a governmental
body for a public purpose or to a fair.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 174.15[2] and Sec. 364.7[3])
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED         ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
146           August 18, 2014
174           August 11, 2021
 
CHAPTER 138
STREET GRADES
 
138.01 Established Grades 138.02 Record Maintained
 
138.01 ESTABLISHED GRADES.
   The grades of all streets, alleys and sidewalks, which have been heretofore
established by ordinance are hereby confirmed, ratified, and established as
official grades.
138.02 RECORD MAINTAINED.
   The Clerk shall maintain a record of all established grades and furnish
information concerning such grades upon request.
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street and/or sidewalk grades and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street and/or sidewalk grades and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
 
CHAPTER 139
NAMING OF STREETS
 
139.01 Naming New Streets      139.04 Official Street Name Map
139.02 Changing Name of Street 139.05 Revision of Street Name Map
139.03 Recording Street Names
 
139.01 NAMING NEW STREETS.
   New streets shall be assigned names in accordance with the following:
   1.   Extension of Existing Street. Streets added to the City that are
natural extensions of existing streets shall be assigned the name of the
existing street.
   2.   Resolution. All street names, except streets named as a part of a
subdivision or platting procedure, shall be named by resolution.
139.02 CHANGING NAME OF STREET.
   The Council may, by resolution, change the name of a street.
139.03 RECORDING STREET NAMES.
   Following official action naming or changing the name of a street, the Clerk
shall file a copy thereof with the County Recorder, County Auditor and County
Assessor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.26)
139.04 OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP.
   Streets within the City are named as shown on the Official Street Name Map
which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
The Official Street Name Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor,
and bearing the seal of the City under the following words: “This is to certify
that this is the Official Street Name Map referred to in Section 139.04 of the
Code of Ordinances of Pierson, Iowa.”
139.05 REVISION OF STREET NAME MAP.
   If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in
street names, such changes shall be entered on the Official Street Name Map
promptly after the change has been approved by the Council with an entry on the
Official Street Name Map as follows: “On (date), by official action of the City
Council, the following changes were made in the Official Street Name Map:
(brief description),” which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by
the Clerk.
CHAPTER 145
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
 
145.01 Adoption of Code                 145.03 Repealer
145.02 Additions, Deletions and Changes 145.04 Preservation of Rights
 
145.01 ADOPTION OF CODE.
   A certain document, a copy of which is on file in the office of the City
Clerk, being marked and designated as the International Property Maintenance
Code, 2015 Edition, as published by the International Code Council, be and is
hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the City, for regulating and
governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings, and
structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities
and other physical things and conditions essential to insure that structures
are safe, sanitary, and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and the demolition
of such existing structures as provided herein; providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of said Property Maintenance Code
on file in the Office of the Pierson City Clerk are hereby referred to,
adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in Section
145.02 of this chapter.
145.02 ADDITIONS, DELETIONS AND CHANGES.
   The following sections are revised:
   1.   Section 101.1 - Insert: The City of Pierson, Iowa.
   2.   Section 103.5 - Insert: [fee schedule].
   3.   Section 112.4 - Insert: “a fund of not less than $200.00 or more than
$750.00.
   4.   The following definitions are added to Section 202, General
Definitions.
   JUNK.
   Household items, specifically manufactured to be kept and used inside. This
term also includes hand-crafted items which will deteriorate, gather mold, or
otherwise become a nuisance if left out in the weather.
   JUNK VEHICLE.
   Any vehicle that remains on a property, without moving under its own power,
for a period of at least 30 days.
   5.   Section 302.4 shall read as follows:
   302.4 Weeds. Premises and exterior property shall be maintained free from
weeds or plant growth in excess of 8” inches. Noxious weeds shall be
prohibited. Weeds shall be defined as all grasses, annual plants and
vegetation, including volunteer or scrub trees or shrubs provided; however,
this term shall not include cultivated flowers and gardens.
   Upon failure of the owner or agent having charge of a property to cut and
destroy weeds after service of a notice of violation, they shall be subject to
prosecution in accordance with Section 106.3 and as prescribed by the authority
having jurisdiction. Upon failure to comply with the notice of violation, any
duly authorized employee of the jurisdiction or contractor hired by the
jurisdiction shall be authorized to enter upon the property in violation and
cut and destroy the weeds growing thereon, and the costs of such removal shall
be paid by the owner or agent responsible for the property.
   6.   Section 302.8 shall read as follows:
      A.   Section 302.8 Motor vehicles. Except as provided for in other
regulations, no inoperative vehicle, junk vehicle, or unlicensed motor vehicle
shall be parked, kept or stored on any premises, and no vehicle shall at any
time be in a state of major disassembly, disrepair, or in the process of being
stripped or dismantled. Painting of vehicles is prohibited unless conducted
inside an approved spray booth. No motor vehicle parts shall be kept on any
premises, except inside an enclosed structure.
   Exception. A vehicle of any type is permitted to undergo major overhaul,
including body work, provided that such work is performed inside a structure or
similarly enclosed area designed and approved for such purposes.
   7.   Section 304.1.1(8) shall read as follows:
      8.   Roofing or roofing components that have defects that admit rain or,
in the opinion of the code official have reached their useful limit, roof
surfaces with inadequate drainage, or any portion of the roof framing that is
not in good repair with signs of deterioration, fatigue or without proper
anchorage and incapable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load
effects;
   8.   Section 304.14 - Insert: May 1 to September 30.
   9.   Title of Section 308 shall read as follows:
   JUNK, RUBBISH AND GARBAGE
   10.   Section 308.1 shall read as follows:
   308.1 Accumulation of junk, rubbish or garbage. Exterior property and
premises, and the interior of every structure, shall be free from any
accumulation of junk, rubbish or garbage.
   11.   Section 308.4 shall read as follows:
   308.4 Storage of junk. Every occupant of a structure shall store all junk
inside an enclosed structure.
   11.   Section 602.3 - Insert: September 15 to June 15.
   12.   Section 602.4 - Insert: September 15 to June 15.
(Section 145.02 – Ord. 178 – May 23 Supp.)
145.03 REPEALER.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed.
145.04 PRESERVATION OF RIGHTS.
   Nothing in this chapter or in the International Property Maintenance Code
hereby adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding impending in
any court, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or
causes of action acquired or existing under any act or ordinance hereby
repealed as cited in Section
145.03 of this chapter, nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any
character be lost, impaired, or affected by this chapter.
CHAPTER 146
MOBILE HOME REGULATIONS
 
146.01 Definitions              146.03 Emergency and Temporary Parking
146.02 Location of Mobile Homes
 
146.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined as follows:
   1.   “Mobile home” means any vehicle without motive power used or so
manufactured or constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon
the public streets and highways and so designed, constructed, or reconstructed
as will permit the vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or
more persons; but also includes any such vehicle with motive power not
registered as a motor vehicle in Iowa. A “mobile home” is not built to a
mandatory building code; contains no State or federal seals, and was built
before June 15, 1976. Mobile homes used as a permanent place for human
habitation are not permitted within the corporate limits of the City.
   2.   “Mobile home park” means any site, lot, field, or tract of land under
common ownership upon which two or more occupied mobile homes, manufactured
homes, modular homes, or a combination of the homes are harbored, either free
of charge or for revenue purposes, and includes any building, structure, tent,
vehicle, or enclosures used or intended for use as part of the equipment of
such mobile home park. Mobile home parks are not permitted within the corporate
limits of the City.
   3.   “Manufactured home” means a factory-built structure built under
authority of 42 U.S.C. Section 5403, is required by federal law to display a
seal from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, and
was constructed on or after June 15, 1976. If a manufactured home is placed in
a mobile home park, the home must be titled. A manufactured home must be placed
on a permanent foundation of cement, cement block, or other noncorrosive
material.
   4.   “Modular home” means a factory-built structure built on a permanent
chassis which is manufactured to be used as a place of human habitation; is
constructed to comply with the Iowa State Building Code for modular factory-
built structures, and must display the seal issued by the State Building Code
Commissioner.
146.02 LOCATION OF MOBILE HOMES.
   All mobile homes shall be placed or parked in a mobile home park unless
permitted otherwise by State law.
146.03 EMERGENCY AND TEMPORARY PARKING.
   Emergency or temporary parking of mobile homes upon the streets, alleys, or
highways, or any other public or private place for a period not in excess of 21
days shall not constitute a violation of Section
146.02 of this chapter, but such parking shall be subject to any prohibitions
or regulations contained in this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 150
BUILDING PERMITS
 
150.01 Building Permit Required            150.04 Permit Fee
150.02 Setbacks                            150.05 Penalty
150.03 Issuance, Expiration and Revocation 150.06 Penalty Not A Remedy
 
150.01 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   1.   No person shall erect, construct, enlarge, remove or alter any building
or structure within the City, including (but not limited to) increasing the
exterior dimensions, height or floor area; remodeling to increase the number of
dwelling units; and changing the use of the building or part thereof, without
first obtaining a building permit from the City.
   2.   To obtain a permit the applicant shall first file an application
therefor in writing on a form furnished for that purpose. Every application
shall:
      A.   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is made.
      B.   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done, by lot,
block, tract, and house and street address, or similar description that will
readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work.
      C.   Indicate the use or occupancy of which the proposed work is
intended.
      D.   Be accompanied by plans and specifications as required in
subsection 3 of this section.
      E.   State the valuation of the proposed work.
      F.   Be signed by the applicant, or authorized agent, who may be required
to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
      G.   Provide such other information as reasonably may be required by the
City Clerk.
      H.   Be filed 10 days prior to a scheduled Council meeting or the
applicant may request a special Council meeting at a cost of $175.00, to be
paid by the applicant.
   3.   Plans and specifications shall be drawn to scale upon substantial paper
or cloth and shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the nature and extent
of the work proposed and show in detail that it will conform to the provisions
of this chapter and all relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations. The
first sheet of each set of plans shall give the house and street address of the
work and the name and address of the owner and person who prepared them. Plans
shall include a plot plan showing the location of the proposed building and of
every existing building on the property. In lieu of detailed specifications,
the City may approve references on the plans to a specific section or part of
this chapter, or other ordinances or laws.
150.02 SETBACKS.
   All buildings, structures, or fences shall be set back at least two feet
(2’) from the property line. The owner of the property subject to the building
permit is responsible for knowing the location of his/her lot lines and shall
indemnify and hold the City harmless, including costs and attorney fees,
concerning the City’s involvement in any property line disputes.
(Ord. 192 – Dec. 23 Supp.)
150.03 ISSUANCE, EXPIRATION AND REVOCATION.
   1.   The application, plans and specifications filed by the applicant for a
permit shall be checked by the City Clerk. Such plans may be reviewed by other
departments of the City to check for compliance with the laws and ordinances
under their jurisdiction. If the work described in the application and the
plans filed therewith conforms to the requirements of this chapter and upon
review and approval by the City Council, the Council shall authorize the Mayor
to sign the permit application and the Clerk shall issue the permit to the
applicant.
   2.   One set of approved plans, specifications and computations shall be
retained by the City Clerk for a period of not less than ninety days from the
date of completion of the work covered therein.
   3.   Every permit issued by the City Clerk under the provisions of this
chapter shall expire by limitation and become null and void, if the building or
work authorized by such permit is not commenced within one hundred and twenty
days from the date of such permit, or if the building or work authorized by
such permit is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced
for a period of one hundred and twenty days. Before such work can be
recommenced, a new permit shall be obtained and no fee shall be required for a
new permit provided no changes have been made or will be made in the original
plans and specifications for such work, and provided further, that such
suspension or abandonment has not exceeded one year.
   4.   The City Clerk may, in writing, suspend or revoke a permit issued under
the provisions of this chapter whenever the permit is issued in error or on the
basis of incorrect information supplied, or when such work is in violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter or other ordinances or regulations.
150.04 PERMIT FEE.
   A permit fee in the amount of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be paid to the City
Clerk at the time the application for the building permit is submitted.
150.05 PENALTY.  
   Any person or entity not obtaining a building permit prior to construction
or who shall violate any of the provisions of this ordinance or fail in any way
to comply therewith, or who shall not comply with any part hereof, shall for
each and every violation and noncompliance be fined one hundred dollars
($100.00).
(Ord. 192 – Dec. 23 Supp.)
150.06 PENALTY NOT A REMEDY.  
   The imposition of a penalty for any violation of this ordinance shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue, and all such person(s) and/or
entities shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects
within 30 days or as determined by the Council.
(Ord. 192 – Dec. 23 Supp.)
CHAPTER 151
TREES
 
151.01 Definition            151.04 Trimming Trees to be Supervised
151.02 Planting Restrictions 151.05 Disease Control
151.03 Duty to Trim Trees    151.06 Inspection and Removal
 
151.01 DEFINITION.
   For use in this chapter, “parking” means that part of the street, avenue, or
highway in the City not covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and
the curb line or, on unpaved streets, that part of the street, avenue, or
highway lying between the lot line and that portion of the street usually
traveled by vehicular traffic.
151.02 PLANTING RESTRICTIONS.
   No tree shall be planted in any parking or street except in accordance with
the following:
   1.   Alignment. All trees planted in any street shall be planted in the
parking midway between the outer line of the sidewalk and the curb. In the
event a curb line is not established, trees shall be planted on a line 10 feet
from the property line.
   2.   Spacing. Trees shall not be planted on any parking which is less than
nine feet in width, or contains less than 81 square feet of exposed soil
surface per tree. Trees shall not be planted closer than 20 feet from street
intersections (property lines extended) and 10 feet from driveways. If it is at
all possible trees should be planted inside the property lines and not between
the sidewalk and the curb.
   3.   Prohibited Trees. No person shall plant in any street any fruit-bearing
tree or any tree of the kinds commonly known as cottonwood, poplar, box elder,
Chinese elm, evergreen, willow, or black walnut.
151.03 DUTY TO TRIM TREES.
   The owner or agent of the abutting property shall keep the trees on, or
overhanging the street, trimmed so that all branches will be at least 15 feet
above the surface of the street and eight feet above the sidewalks. If the
abutting property owner fails to trim the trees, the City may serve notice on
the abutting property owner requiring that such action be taken within five
days. If such action is not taken within that time, the City may perform the
required action and assess the costs against the abutting property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c, d, and e])
151.04 TRIMMING TREES TO BE SUPERVISED.
   Except as allowed in Section
151.03, it is unlawful for any person to trim or cut any tree in a street or
public place unless the work is done under the supervision of the City.
151.05 DISEASE CONTROL.
   Any dead, diseased, or damaged tree or shrub which may harbor serious insect
or disease pests or disease injurious to other trees is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
151.06 INSPECTION AND REMOVAL.
   The Council shall inspect or cause to be inspected any trees or shrubs in
the City reported or suspected to be dead, diseased or damaged, and such trees
and shrubs shall be subject to the following:
   1.   City Property. If it is determined that any such condition exists on
any public property, including the strip between the curb and the lot line of
private property, the Council may cause such condition to be corrected by
treatment or removal. The Council may also order the removal of any trees on
the streets of the City which interfere with the making of improvements or with
travel thereon.
   2.   Private Property. If it is determined with reasonable certainty that
any such condition exists on private property and that danger to other trees or
to adjoining property or passing motorists or pedestrians is imminent, the
Council shall notify by certified mail the owner, occupant or person in charge
of such property to correct such condition by treatment or removal within 14
days of said notification. If such owner, occupant, or person in charge of said
property fails to comply within 14 days of receipt of notice, the Council may
cause the condition to be corrected and the cost assessed against the property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3b and h])
CHAPTER 155
CARGO CONTAINERS
155.01 CARGO CONTAINER.
   1.   “Cargo containers” include standardized reusable vessels that were:
      A.   Originally designed for or used in the parking, shipping, movement
or transportation of freight, articles, good or commodities; and/or
      B.   Originally designed for or capable of being mounted or moved by
rail, truck or ship by means of being mounted on a chassis or similar transport
device. This definition includes the terms “transport containers” and “portable
site storage containers” that have a similar appearance to and similar
characteristics of cargo containers.
   2.   For purposes of this section, cargo containers also include railroad
cars, unlicensed truck vans, converted mobile homes, trainers, unlicensed
campers, unlicensed buses, bus bodies, and other similar items that are being
used for storage of articles, goods, and other personal property.
   3.   Cargo containers are not permitted in residential districts and in the
mobile home park district except as hereafter provided. In case of a disaster
or if a resident is remodeling his/her home or detached structure, a resident
may apply for a permit from the City Clerk to have a shipping container for a
period of ninety days on his or her property. In order to extend that permit
for an additional ninety days, the resident must apply and obtain approval from
the City Council.
   4.   Violation of this provision shall be a municipal infraction of $500.00
for the first offense, $1,000.00 for the second offense, and $1,500.00 for
third and subsequent offenses.
(Ch. 155 – Ord. 177 – May 23 Supp.)
CHAPTER 160
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
 
160.01 Definitions                            160.06 Variance Procedures
160.02 Statutory Authority, Findings of Fact, 160.07 Nonconforming Uses
and Purpose
160.03 General Provisions                     160.08 Penalties for Violation
160.04 Administration                         160.09 Amendments
160.05 Floodplain Management Standards
 
160.01 DEFINITIONS.  
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   1.   “Appurtenant structure” means a structure which is on the same parcel
of the property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which
is incidental to the use of the principal structure.
   2.   “Base flood” means the flood having one percent chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year and is also commonly referred to as the “100-year
flood.”
   3.   “Base flood elevation” (BFE) means the elevation floodwaters would
reach at a particular site during the occurrence of a base flood event.
   4.   “Basement” means any enclosed area of a building which has its floor or
lowest level below ground level (subgrade) on all sides. Also see “lowest
floor.”
   5.   “Development” means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including (but not limited to) buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations or storage
of equipment or materials. “Development” does not include minor projects or
routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities, as defined in this
section. It also does not include gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling or grading.
   6.   “Enclosed area below lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest
enclosed area in a building when all the following criteria are met:
      A.   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic
pressure during flood events with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions
of Section 160.05(D)(1) of this chapter.
      B.   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, drywalled, etc.) and
used solely for low damage potential uses such as building access, parking, or
storage.
      C.   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater, furnace,
electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at least one
foot above the base flood elevation.
      D.   The enclosed area is not a basement as defined in this section.
   7.   “Existing construction” means any structure for which the start of
construction commenced before the effective date of the first floodplain
management regulations adopted by the community.
   8.   “Existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the
community.
   9.   “Expansion of existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means
the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed
(including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   10.   “Factory-built home” means any structure, designed for residential use
which is wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed or assembled
in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation, on a
building site. For the purpose of this chapter, factory-built homes include
mobile homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes; and also include
recreational vehicles which are placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days and not fully licensed for and ready for highway use.
   11.   “Factory-built home park or subdivision” means a parcel or contiguous
parcels of land divided into two or more factory-built home lots for sale or
lease.
   12.   “500-year flood” means a flood, the magnitude of which has a two-
tenths percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year or which,
on average, will be equaled or exceeded at least once every 500 years.
   13.   “Flood” means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or
rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
   14.   “Flood Insurance Rate Map” (FIRM) means the official map prepared as
part of (but published separately from) the Flood Insurance Study which
delineates both the flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community.
   15.   “Flood Insurance Study” (FIS) means a report published by FEMA for a
community issued along with the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Maps. The
study contains such background data as the base flood discharge and water
surface elevations that were used to prepare the FIRM.
   16.   “Floodplain” means any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water as a result of a flood.
   17.   “Floodplain management” means an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use of
floodplains, including (but not limited to) emergency preparedness plans, flood
control works, floodproofing and floodplain management regulations.
   18.   “Floodproofing” means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, including utility and
sanitary facilities, which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to such
structures.
   19.   “Floodway” means the channel of a river or stream and those portions
of the floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to
carry and discharge flood waters or flood flows so that confinement of flood
flows to the floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot.
   20.   “Floodway fringe” means those portions of the Special Flood Hazard
Area outside the floodway.
   21.   “Highest adjacent grade” means the highest natural elevation of the
ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   22.   “Historic structure” means any structure that is:
      A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places,
maintained by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily determined by the
Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing of
the National Register.
      B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district.
      C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior.
      D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either: (i) by an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or (ii) directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   23.   “Lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest enclosed area in a
building including a basement except when the criteria listed in the definition
of enclosed area below lowest floor are met.
   24.   “Maximum damage potential development” means hospitals and like
institutions; buildings or building complexes containing documents, data, or
instruments of great public value; buildings or building complexes containing
materials dangerous to the public or fuel storage facilities; power
installations needed in emergency or other buildings or building complexes
similar in nature or use.
   25.   “Minor projects” means small development activities (except for
filling, grading, and excavating) valued at less than $500.00.
   26.   “New construction” (new buildings, factory-built home parks) means
those structures or development for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the first floodplain management regulations
adopted by the community.
   27.   “New factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the
effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the
community.
   28.   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle which is:
      A.   Built on a single chassis.
      B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection.
      C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck.
      D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   29.   “Routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities” means
repairs necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that do
not trigger a building permit, provided they are not associated with a general
improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such repairs
include:
      A.   Normal maintenance of structures such as re-roofing, replacing
roofing tiles and replacing siding.
      B.   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting,
cabinets, counter tops and similar finish work.
      C.   Basement sealing.
      D.   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes.
      E.   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating or air
conditioning systems, and repairing wells or septic systems.
   30.   “Special Flood Hazard Area” (SFHA) means the land within a community
subject to the base flood. This land is identified on the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map as Zone A, A1-30, AE, AH, AO, AR, and/or A99.
   31.   “Start of construction” includes substantial improvement, and means
the date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement or permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as pouring of a slab or footings, the installation of pile, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a factory-built home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; not does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   32.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected on the ground or
attached to the ground, including (but not limited to) buildings, factories,
sheds, cabins, factory-built homes, storage tanks, grain storage facilities,
and/or other similar uses.
   33.   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a
structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage
condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred. Volunteer labor and donated materials shall be
included in the estimated cost of repair.
   34.   “Substantial improvement” means any improvement to a structure which
satisfies either of the following criteria:
      A.   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure
either: (i) before the start of construction of the improvement; or (ii) if the
structure has been substantially damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred.
      The term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a
structure to correct existing violations of State or local health, sanitary, or
safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code
enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living
conditions. The term also does not include any alteration of a historic
structure, provided the alteration will not preclude the structure’s
designation as a historic structure.
      B.   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a building
by 25 percent or more. All additions constructed after the effective date of
the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the community shall be
added to any proposed addition in determining whether the total increase in
original floor space would exceed 25 percent.
   35.   “Variance” means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of
the floodplain management regulations.
   36.   “Violation” means the failure of a structure or other development to
be fully compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
160.02 STATUTORY AUTHORITY, FINDINGS OF FACT, AND PURPOSE.
   1.   The Legislature of the State of Iowa has in Chapter 364, Code of Iowa,
as amended, delegated the power to cities to exercise any power and perform any
function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the rights, privileges
and property of the City or of its residents, and to preserve and improve the
peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort and convenience of its residents.
   2.   Findings of Fact.
      A.   The flood hazard areas of the City of Pierson are subject to
periodic inundation which can result in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare of the community.
      B.   These flood losses, hazards, and related adverse effects are caused
by: (i) the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood damages
which create hazardous conditions as a result of being inadequately elevated or
otherwise protected from flooding; and (ii) the cumulative effect of
obstructions on the floodplain causing increases in flood heights and
velocities.
      C.   This chapter relies upon engineering methodology for analyzing flood
hazards which is consistent with the standards established by the Department of
Natural Resources.
   3.   Statement of Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to protect and
preserve the rights, privileges, and property of the City of Pierson and its
residents and to preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, and
comfort and convenience of its residents by minimizing those flood losses
described in Section
160.02(2)(A) of this chapter with provisions designed to:
      A.   Reserve sufficient floodplain area for the conveyance of flood flows
so that flood heights and velocities will not be increased substantially.
      B.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities.
      C.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction or substantial improvement.
      D.   Protect individuals from buying lands which may not be suited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard.
      E.   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance
Program.
160.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   1.   Lands to Which Chapter Applies. The provisions of this chapter shall
apply to all lands and development which have significant flood hazards. The
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) for Woodbury County and Incorporated Areas,
City of Pierson, Panel 19193C0136E dated July 17, 2024, which were prepared as
part of the Flood Insurance Study for Woodbury County, shall be used to
identify such flood hazard areas and all areas shown thereon to be within the
boundaries of the base flood shall be considered as having significant flood
hazards. The Flood Insurance Study for the County of Woodbury is hereby adopted
by reference and is made a part of this chapter for the purpose of
administering floodplain management regulations.
   2.   Rules for Interpretation of Flood Hazard Boundaries. The boundaries of
the Special Flood Hazard Areas shall be determined by scaling distances on the
official Flood Insurance Rate Map. When an interpretation is needed as to the
exact location of a boundary, the City Clerk shall make the necessary
interpretation. The City Council shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the City Clerk in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   3.   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be used and no
structure shall be located, extended, converted, or structurally altered
without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   4.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. It is not intended by this chapter
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provision of this chapter shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent with
this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   5.   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the provisions
of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by State statutes.
   6.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The standards required by this
chapter are considered reasonable for regulatory purposes. This chapter does
not imply that areas outside the designated Special Flood Hazard Areas will be
free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on
the part of the City of Pierson or any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
   7.   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
160.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   1.   Appointment, Duties, and Responsibilities of Local Official. The City
Clerk is hereby appointed to implement and administer the provisions of this
chapter and will herein be referred to as the Administrator. Duties and
responsibilities of the Administrator shall include (but not necessarily be
limited to) the following:
      A.   Review all Floodplain Development Permit Applications to assure that
the provisions of this chapter will be satisfied.
      B.   Review Floodplain Development Applications to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from federal, State, and local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Department of
Natural Resources for floodplain construction.
      C.   Record and maintain a record of: (i) the elevation (in relation to
North American Vertical Datum 1988) of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new or substantially improved structures; or (ii) the elevation to which
new or substantially improved structures have been floodproofed.
      D.   Notify adjacent communities/counties and the Department of Natural
Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a watercourse and
submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
      E.   Keep a record of all permits, appeals, and such other transactions
and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this chapter.
      F.   Submit to the Federal Insurance Administrator an annual report
concerning the community’s participation, utilizing the annual report form
supplied by the Federal Insurance Administrator.
      G.   Notify the Federal Insurance Administrator of any annexations or
modifications to the community’s boundaries.
      H.   Review subdivision proposals to ensure such proposals are consistent
with the purpose of this chapter and advise the City Council of potential
conflict.
      I.   Maintain the accuracy of the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Maps
when:
         (1)   Development placed within the floodway results in any of the
following:
            a.   An increase in the base flood elevations; or
            b.   Alteration to the floodway boundary;
         (2)   Development placed in Zones A, AE, AH, and A1-30 that does not
include a designated floodway that will cause a rise of more than one foot in
the base flood elevation; or
         (3)   Development relocates or alters the channel.
      Within six months of the completion of the development, the applicant
shall submit to FEMA all scientific and technical data necessary for a Letter
of Map Revision.
      J.   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with the standards of
this chapter.
      K.   Forward all requests for variances to the City Council for
consideration. Ensure all requests include the information ordinarily submitted
with applications as well as any additional information deemed necessary to the
City Council.
   2.   Floodplain Development Permit.
      A.   Permit Required. A Floodplain Development Permit issued by the
Administrator shall be secured prior to any floodplain development (any man-
made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not limited to
buildings or other structures, mining, filling, grading, paving, storage of
materials and equipment, excavation or drilling operations), including the
placement of factory-built homes.
      B.   Application for Permit. Application shall be made on forms furnished
by the Administrator and shall include the following:
         (1)   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is to be made.
         (2)   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done
(e.g., lot, block, track, street address or similar description) that will
readily identify and locate the work to be done.
         (3)   Location and dimensions of all structures and additions.
         (4)   Indication of the use or occupancy for which the proposed work
is intended.
         (5)   Elevation of the base flood.
         (6)   Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) of
the lowest floor (including basement) of structures or of the level to which a
structure is to be floodproofed.
         (7)   For structures being improved or rebuilt, the estimated cost of
improvements and market value of the structure prior to the improvements.
         (8)   Such information as the Administrator deems reasonably necessary
(e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of this chapter.
      C.   Action on Permit Application. The Administrator shall, within a
reasonable time, make a determination as to whether the proposed floodplain
development meets the applicable standards of this chapter and shall approve or
disapprove the application. For disapprovals, the applicant shall be informed,
in writing, of the specific reasons therefor. The Administrator shall not issue
permits for variances except as directed by the City Council.
      D.   Construction and Use to Be as Provided in Application and Plans.
Floodplain Development Permits based on the basis of approved plans and
applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in
such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement, or
construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. The applicant shall be
required to submit certification by a professional engineer or land surveyor,
as appropriate, registered in the State of Iowa, that the finished fill,
structure floor elevations, floodproofing, or other flood protection measures
were accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to
the use or occupancy of any structure.
160.05 FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT STANDARDS.
   1.   All development must be consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage and meet the following applicable performance standards. Where base
flood elevations have not been provided in the Flood Insurance Study, the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources shall be contacted to determine (i) whether the
land involved is either wholly or partly within the floodway or floodway fringe
and (ii) the base flood elevation. The applicant will be responsible for
providing the Department of Natural Resources with sufficient technical
information to make such determination.
   Review by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources is not required for the
proposed construction of new or replacement bridges or culverts where (i) the
bridge or culvert is located on a stream that drains less than two (2) square
miles, and (ii) the bridge or culvert is not associated with a channel
modification that constitutes a channel change as specified in 567-71.2(2),
Iowa Administrative Code.
      A.   All Development. All development within the Special Flood Hazard
Areas shall:
         (1)   Be designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement.
         (2)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
         (3)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage.
      B.   Residential Structures. All new or substantially improved
residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated a minimum of one (1) foot above base flood elevation. Construction
shall be upon compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no lower than 1.0
ft. above the base flood elevation and extend at such elevation at least 18
feet beyond the limits of any structure erected thereon. Alternate methods of
elevating (such as piers or extended foundations) may be allowed, where
existing topography, street grades, or other factors preclude elevating by
fill. In such cases, the methods used must be adequate to support the structure
as well as withstand the various forces and hazards associated with flooding.
   All new residential structures located in areas what would become isolated
due to flooding of surrounding ground shall be provided with a means of access
that will be passable by wheeled vehicles during the base flood. However, this
criterion shall not apply where the Administrator determines there is
sufficient flood warning time for the protection of life and property. When
estimating flood warning time, consideration shall be given to the criteria
listed in 567.75.2(3), Iowa Administrative Code.
      C.   Non-Residential Structures. All new or substantially improved non-
residential structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one (1) foot above the base flood elevation, or together
with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be floodproofed to such a level.
When floodproofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in the State
of Iowa shall certify that the floodproofing methods used are adequate to
withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces and
other factors associated with the base flood; and that the structure, below the
base flood elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water. A record of the certification indicating the specific
elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Administrator.
      D.   All New and Substantially Improved Structures.
         (1)   Fully enclosed areas below the “lowest floor” (not including
basements) that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
            a.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
            b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
            c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.    
      Such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles, building access
and low damage potential storage.
         (2)   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
         (3)   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed
with electric meter, electrical service panel box, hot water heater, heating,
air conditioning, ventilation equipment (including ductwork), and other similar
machinery and equipment elevated (or in the case on non-residential structures,
optionally floodproofed to) a minimum of one (1) foot above the base flood
elevation.
         (4)   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed
with plumbing, gas lines, water/gas meters and other similar service utilities
either elevated (or in the case of non-residential structures, optionally
floodproofed to) a minimum of one (1) foot above the base flood elevation or
designed to be watertight and withstand inundation to such a level.
   E.   Factory-Built Homes.
      (1)   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including
those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions shall be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the structure
is a minimum of one (1) foot above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including
those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions shall be
anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Anchorage systems
may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to
ground anchors as required by the State Building Code.
   F.   Utility and Sanitary Systems.
      (1)   On-site waste disposal and water supply systems shall be located or
designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the system
during flooding.
      (2)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system as well
as the discharge of effluent into flood waters. Wastewater treatment facilities
(other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a level of flood protection
equal to or greater than one (1) foot above the base flood elevation.
      (3)   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system. Water
supply treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with
a level of protection equal to or greater than one (1) foot above the base
flood elevation.
      (4)   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.
   G.   Storage of Materials and Equipment. Storage of materials and equipment
that are flammable, explosive or injurious to human, animal or plant life is
prohibited unless elevated a minimum of one (1) foot above the base flood
elevation. Other material and equipment must either be similarly elevated or
(i) not be subject to major flood damage and be anchored to prevent movement
due to flood waters or (ii) be readily removeable from the area within the time
available after flood warning.
   H.   Flood Control Structural Works. Flood control structural works such as
levees, flood walls, etc. shall provide, at a minimum, protection from the base
flood with a minimum of 3 ft. of design freeboard and shall provide for
adequate interior drainage. In addition, the Department of Natural Resources
shall approve structural flood control works.
   I.   Watercourse Alterations or Relocations. Watercourse alterations or
relocations must be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within the
altered or relocated portion. In addition, the Department of Natural Resources
must approve such alterations or relocations.
   J.   Subdivisions. Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks and
subdivisions) shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
Development associated with subdivision proposals (including the installation
of public utilities) shall meet the applicable performance standards of this
chapter. Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide all
lots with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during
the base flood. Proposals for subdivisions greater than five (5) acres or fifty
(50) lots (whichever is less) shall include base flood elevation data for those
areas located within the Special Flood Hazard Area.
   K.   Accessory Structures to Residential Uses.
      (1)   Detached garages, sheds, and similar structures that are incidental
to a residential use are exempt from the base flood elevation requirements
where the following criteria are satisfied.
         a.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential. Its size shall not exceed 600 sq. ft. in size. Those portions of the
structure located less than 1 foot above the base flood elevation must be
constructed of flood-resistant materials.
         b.   The structure shall be used solely for low flood damage potential
purposes such as vehicle parking and limited storage. The structure shall not
be used for human habitation.
         c.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
         d.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to resist flotation,
collapse and lateral movement.
         e.   The structure’s service facilities such as electrical and heating
equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed to at least one foot above the base
flood elevation.
         f.   The structure’s walls shall include openings that satisfy the
provisions of Section 160.05(D)(1) of this chapter.
      (2)   Exemption from the base flood elevation requirements for such a
structure may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance coverage of
the structure and its contents.
   L.   Recreational Vehicles.
      (1)   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the requirements of Section
160.05(E) of this chapter regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built
homes when the following criteria are satisfied.
         a.   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for less
than 180 consecutive days, and,
         b.   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more than
180 consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must satisfy requirements
of Section 160.05(E) of this chapter regarding anchoring and elevation of
factory-built homes.
   M.   Pipeline River and Stream Crossings. Pipeline river and stream
crossings shall be buried in the streambed and banks, or otherwise sufficiently
protected to prevent rupture due to channel degradation and meandering.
   N.   Maximum Damage Potential Development. All new or substantially improved
maximum damage potential development shall have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated a minimum of one (1) foot above the elevation of the 500-
year flood, or together with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be
floodproofed to such a level. When floodproofing is utilized, a professional
engineer registered in the State of Iowa shall certify that the floodproofing
methods used are adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities,
impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with the 0.2% annual
chance flood; and that the structure, below the 0.2% annual chance flood
elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water. A record of the certification indicating the specific elevation (in
relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the Administrator. Where 0.2% chance flood
elevation data has not been provided in the Flood Insurance Study, the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources shall be contacted to compute such data. The
applicant will be responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources
with sufficient technical information to make such determinations.
160.06 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   1.   The City Council may authorize upon request in specific cases such
variances from the terms of this chapter that will not be contrary to the
public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary hardship. Variances
granted must meet the following applicable standards.
      A.   Variances shall only be granted upon: (i) a showing of good and
sufficient cause, (ii) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and (iii) a determination that
the granting of the variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or conflict with
existing local codes or ordinances.
      B.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood would result. Consideration of
the effects of any development on flood levels shall be based upon the
assumption that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly
situated lands.
      C.   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      D.    In cases where the variance involves a lower level of flood
protection for structures than what is ordinarily required by this chapter, the
applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature of the Administrator
that: (i) the issuance of a variance will result in increased premium rates for
flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage and
(ii) such construction increases risks to life and property.
      E.   All variances granted shall have the concurrence or approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
   2.   Factors Upon Which the Decision of the City Council Shall be Based. In
passing upon applications for variances, the Council shall consider all
relevant factors specified in other sections of this chapter and:
      A.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments.
      B.   The danger that materials may be swept on to other land or
downstream to the injury of others.
      C.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions.
      D.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
      E.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the City.
      F.   The requirements of the facility for a floodplain location.
      G.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use.
      H.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
      I.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for the area.
      J.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
      K.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood water expected at the site.
      L.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems), facilities, streets and bridges.
      M.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this
chapter.
   3.   Conditions Attached to Variances. Upon consideration of the factors
listed above, the City Council may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose of this chapter. Such
conditions may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
      A.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
      B.   Limitation of periods of use and operation.
      C.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed restrictions.
      D.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes,
levees, and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the
Department of Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative
to achieving the purpose of this chapter.
      E.   Floodproofing measures shall be designed consistent with the flood
protection elevation for the particular area, flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, and other factors associated with
the regulatory flood. The Council shall require that the applicant submit a
plan or document certified by a registered professional engineer that the
floodproofing measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection
elevation and associated flood factors for the particular area.
160.07 NONCONFORMING USES.  
   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful before
the passage or amendment of this chapter, but which is not in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter, may be continued subject to the following
conditions:
   1.   If such use is discontinued for six consecutive months, any future use
of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
   2.   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   3.   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50
percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred, unless
it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
State or local health, sanitary, building or safety codes or regulations or the
cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation
   Except as provided in Section
160.07(2) of this chapter, any use which has been permitted as a variance shall
be considered a conforming use.
160.08 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.  
   Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any
of the requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates
this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon
conviction thereof be fined not more than $(500.00) or imprisoned for not more
than (30) days. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained prevent the City of Pierson from
taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy violation.
160.09 AMENDMENTS.  
   The regulations and standards set forth in this chapter may from time to
time be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed. No amendment, supplement,
change, or modification shall be undertaken without prior approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
(Chapter 160 – Ord. 194 – Apr. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 165
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
165.01 Short Title                165.16 Subdivision Classified
165.02 Purpose                    165.17 Plats Required
165.03 Application                165.18 Requirements of Preliminary Plat
165.04 Recording of Plat          165.19 Referral of Preliminary Plat
165.05 Definitions                165.20 Action by the City Engineer
165.06 Improvements Required      165.21 Action by the Council
165.07 Inspection                 165.22 Final Plat
165.08 Minimum Improvements       165.23 Referral of Final Plat
165.09 Completion of Improvements 165.24 Requirements of the Final Plat
165.10 Performance Bond           165.25 Final Plat Attachments
165.11 Minimum Design Standards   165.26 Action by the Council on Final Plat
165.12 Procedures and Submission  165.27 Variances
Requirements for Plats
165.13 Pre-Application Conference 165.28 Chain Subdividing
165.14 Sketch Plan Required       165.29 Extraterritorial Review Agreement
165.15 Presentation to Council
 
165.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as “The City of Pierson, Iowa,
Subdivision Control Ordinance.”
165.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards for the design,
development, and improvement of all new subdivisions and re-subdivisions of
land, so that existing developments will be protected, and so that adequate
provisions are made for public facilities and services, and so that growth
occurs in an orderly manner, consistent with the Comprehensive Plan, and to
promote the public health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the
City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.1 and 364.1)
165.03 APPLICATION.
   Every owner of any original parcel of land, forty (40) acres or part
thereof, entered of record in the office of the County Recorder as a single
lot, parcel or tract on or before the effective date of these regulations into
three or more lots, parcels, or tracts for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of laying out an addition, subdivision, building lot or lots, acreage
or suburban lots, transfer of ownership or building development within the City
or within two (2) miles of the corporate limits of the city; shall cause plats
of such area to be made in the form, and containing the information, as
hereinafter set forth before selling any lots therein contained or placing the
plat on record.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.9)
165.04 RECORDING OF PLAT.
   No subdivision plat, re-subdivision plat, or street dedication within the
City or, as provided in Section 354.9, Code of Iowa, within two (2) miles of
the corporate limits of the City, as recorded in the office of the County
Recorder and filed with the County Auditor, shall be filed for record with the
County Recorder, or recorded by the County Recorder, until a final plat of such
subdivision, re-subdivision, or street dedication has been reviewed and
approved in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Upon the approval
of the final plat by the Council, it shall be the duty of the subdivider to
immediately file such plat with the County Auditor and County Recorder, as
required by law. Such approval shall be revocable after thirty (30) days,
unless such plat has been duly recorded and evidence thereof filed with the
City Clerk within such thirty (30) days.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.9)
165.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, certain words herein shall be defined as
and interpreted as follows.
   1.   “Acquisition plat” means the graphical representation of the division
of land or rights in land. created as the result of a conveyance or
condemnation for right-of-way purposes by an agency of the government or other
persons having the power of eminent domain.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.2[1])
   2.   “Aliquot part” means a fractional part of a section within the United
States public land survey system. Only the fractional parts one-half, one-
quarter, one-half of one-quarter, or one-quarter of one quarter shall be
considered an aliquot part of a section.
   3.   “Alley” means public property dedicated to public use primarily for
vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a
street.
   4.   “Auditor’s Plat” means a subdivision plat required by either the
Auditor or the Assessor, prepared by a surveyor under the direction of the
Auditor.
(Code of lowa, Sec. 354.2[3])
   5.   “Block” means an area of land within a subdivision that is entirely
bounded by streets, railroad rights-of way, rivers, tracts of public land, or
the boundary of the subdivision.
   6.   “Building lines” means a line on a plat between which line and public
right-of-way no building or structures may be erected.
   7.   “City Engineer” means the professional engineer registered in the State
of Iowa designated as City Engineer by the Council or other hiring authority.
   8.   “Comprehensive Plan” means the general plan for the development of the
community, that may be titled master plan, comprehensive plan or some other
title, which plan has been adopted by the Council. Such Comprehensive Plan
shall include any part of such plan separately adopted and any amendment to
such plan or parts thereof.
   9.   “Conveyance” means an instrument filed with a Recorder as evidence of
the transfer of title to land. including any form of deed or contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.2[5])
   10.   “Cul-de-sac” means a street having one end connecting to another
street, and the other end terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
   11.   “Division” means dividing a tract or parcel of land into two parcels
of land by conveyance or for tax purposes. The conveyance of an easement other
than public highway easement shall not be considered a division for the purpose
of this chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.2[6] and 355.1[2])
   12.   “Easement” means an authorization by a property owner for another to
use a designated part of said owner’s property for a specified purpose.
   13.   “Flood hazard area” means any area subject to flooding by a one
percent (1%) probability flood, otherwise referred to as a 100-year flood, as
designated by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources or the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   14.   “Floodway” means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent lands that must be reserved in order to discharge the waters of a 100-
year flood without cumulatively raising the waterway surface elevation more
than one foot.
   15.   “Forty-acre aliquot part” means one-quarter of one-quarter of a
section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.2[7])
   16.   “Government lot” means a tract, within a section, that is normally
described by a lot number as represented and identified on the township plat of
the United States public land survey system.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.2[9] and 355.1[3])
   17.   “Improvements” means changes to land necessary to prepare it for
building sites including but not limited to grading, filling, street paving,
curb paving, sidewalks, walk ways, water mains, sewers, drainage ways, and
other public works and appurtenances.
   18.   “Lot” means a tract of land represented and identified by number or
letter designation on an official plat.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.2[10])
   19.   “Lot, corner” means a lot situated at the intersection of two streets.
   20.   “Lot, double frontage” means any lot that is not a corner lot that
abuts two streets.
   21.   “Metes and bounds description” means a description of land that uses
distances and angles, uses distances and bearings, or describes the boundaries
of the parcel by reference to physical features of the land.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.2[11])
   22.   “Official plat” means either an auditor’s plat or a subdivision plat
that meets the requirements of this chapter and has been filed for record in
the offices of the Recorder, Auditor, and Assessor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.2[12])
   23.   “Original parcel” means forty acres or part thereof entered of record
in the office of the County Recorder as a single lot or parcel.
   24.   “Owner” means the legal entity holding title to the property being
subdivided, or such representative or agent as is fully empowered to act on its
behalf.
   25.   “Parcel” means a part of a tract of land.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.2[13])
   26.   “Performance bond” means a surety bond or cash deposit made out to the
City, in an amount equal to the full cost of the improvements which are
required by this chapter, said cost estimated by the City and said surety bond
or cash bond being legally sufficient to secure to the City that the said
improvements will be constructed in accordance with this chapter.
   27.   “Permanent real estate index number” means a unique number or
combination of numbers assigned to a parcel of land pursuant to Section 441.29
of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.2[14])
   28.   “Plat” means a map drawing, or chart on which a subdivider’s plan for
the subdivision of land is presented, that said subdivider submits for approval
and intends, in final form, to record.
   29.   “Plats officer” means the individual assigned the duty to administer
this chapter by the Council or other appointing authority.
   30.   “Plat of survey” means the graphical representation of a survey of one
or more parcels of land, including a complete and accurate description of each
parcel within the plat, prepared by a registered land surveyor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.2[15] and 355.1[9])
   31.   “Proprietor” means a person who has a recorded interest in land,
including a person selling or buying land pursuant to a contract, but excluding
persons holding mortgage, easement, or lien interest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.2[16])
   32.   “Re-subdivision” means any subdivision of land that has previously
been included in a recorded plat. In appropriate context it may be a verb
referring to the act of preparing a plat of previously subdivided land.
   33.   “Street” means public property, not an alley, intended for vehicular
circulation. In appropriate context the term “street” may refer to the right-
of-way bounded by the property lines of such public property, or may refer to
the paving installed within such right-of-way.
   34.   “Street, arterial” means a street primarily intended to carry traffic
from one part of the City to another, and not intended to provide access to
abutting property.
   35.   “Street, collector” means a street primarily designed to connect
smaller areas of the community, and to carry traffic from local streets to
arterial streets.
   36.   “Street, local” means a street primarily designed to provide access to
abutting property.
   37.   “Subdivider” means the owner of the property being subdivided, or such
other person or entity empowered to act on the owner’s behalf.
   38.   “Subdivision” means the accumulative effect of dividing an original
lot, tract, or parcel of land, as of into three (3) or more lots for the
purpose of immediate or future sale or transfer for development purposes
excluding public roadways, public utility extensions, and land taken by
condemnation. The term includes a re-subdivision or re-platting. When
appropriate to the context, the word may relate to the process of subdividing
or the land subdivided. Any person not in compliance with the provisions of the
subdivision definition at the time of its effective date shall not be required
to comply with such provisions unless or until a new division, re-subdivision,
or re-platting occurs following that effective date.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.2[17] and 355.1[10])
   39.   “Subdivision plat” means the graphical representation of the
subdivision of land, prepared by a registered land surveyor, having a number or
letter designation for each lot within the plat and succinct name or title that
is unique for the county where the land is located.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.2[18] and 355.1[11])
   40.   
“Surveyor” means a registered land surveyor who engages in the practice of land
surveying pursuant to Chapter 542B of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.2[19] and 355.1[12])
   41.   “Tract” means an aliquot part of a section, a lot within an official
plat, or a government lot.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.2[20])
   42.   “Utilities” means systems for the distribution or collection of water,
gas, electricity, wastewater, and storm water.
165.06 IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
   The subdivider shall, at said subdivider’s expense, install and construct
all improvements required by this chapter. All required improvements shall be
installed and constructed in accordance with the design standards established
for such improvements by the City, and as shown on the approved preliminary
plat.
165.07 INSPECTION.
   All improvements shall be inspected to insure compliance with the
requirements of this chapter. The cost of such inspection shall be borne by the
subdivider and shall be the actual cost of the inspection to the City.
165.08 MINIMUM IMPROVEMENTS.
   The improvements set forth below shall be considered the minimum
improvements necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.1)
   1.   Streets and Alleys. All streets and alleys within the platted area
which are dedicated for public use shall be brought to the grade approved by
the Council after receiving the report and recommendations of the City
Engineer.
   2.   Roadways. All roadways shall be surfaced with Portland cement concrete
or with asphalt concrete over a crushed stone base, as the Council may require.
   3.   Curb and Gutter. Curb and gutter shall be required on all streets. All
curb and gutter shall be constructed to the grade approved by the Council after
receiving the report and recommendations of the City Engineer. Newly
constructed curbs and gutters shall comply with the Americans With Disabilities
Guidelines (ADAAG).
   4.   Sidewalks. Sidewalks may be required by the Council if they are
considered necessary for the general welfare and safety of the community.
Sidewalks shall be constructed to the grade approved by the Council after
receiving the report and recommendations of the City Engineer.
   5.   Water Lines. Where a public water main is reasonably accessible, the
subdivider shall connect with such water main and provide a water connection
for each lot with service pipe installed to the property line in accordance
with the City Water Department standards, procedures and supervision.
   6.   Sewers.
      A.   Where a public sanitary sewer is reasonably accessible, the
subdivider shall connect or provide for the connection with such sanitary sewer
and shall provide within the subdivision the sanitary sewer system as required
to make the sewer accessible to each lot in the subdivision. Sanitary sewers
shall be stubbed into each lot. Sewer systems shall be approved by the Council
and the State Department of Health and the construction subject to the
supervision of the Superintendent of Public Utilities.
      B.   Where sanitary sewers are not available, other facilities, as
approved by the Council and the State Department of Health must be provided for
the adequate disposal of sanitary wastes.
      C.   Adequate provisions shall be made for the disposal of storm waters,
subject to the approval of the Council and to the supervision of the
Superintendent of Public Utilities.
165.09 COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   Before the Council shall approve the final plat, all of the foregoing
improvements shall be constructed and accepted by formal resolution of the
Council. Before passage of said resolution of acceptance, the Superintendent of
Public Works shall report that said improvements meet all City specifications
and ordinances or other City requirements, and the agreements between
subdivider and the City,
165.10 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   The completion requirement may be waived in whole or in part if the
subdivider will post a performance bond with the Council guaranteeing that
improvements not completed will be constructed within a period of one year from
final acceptance of the plat, but final acceptance of the plat will not
constitute final acceptance by the City of any improvements to be constructed.
Improvements will be accepted only after their construction has been completed,
and no public funds will be expended in the subdivision until such improvements
have been completed and accepted by the City.
165.11 MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The following standards shall be considered the minimum standards necessary
to protect the public health, safety, and general welfare,
   1.   Relation to Existing Streets.
      A.   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of
all streets shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned
streets, to topographic conditions, to public convenience and safety, and in
their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by
such streets.
      B.   The arrangement of streets in a subdivision shall either provide for
the continuation of appropriate projection of existing principal streets in
surrounding areas or conform to a plat for the neighborhood approved by the
Council to meet a particular situation where topographical or other conditions
made continuance or conformance to existing streets impracticable.
   2.   Acreage Subdivisions.
      A.   Where the plat submitted covers only a part of the subdivider’s
plat, a sketch of the prospective future system of the unsubmitted part shall
be furnished and the street system of the part submitted shall be considered in
the light of adjustments in connection with the street system of the part not
submitted.
      B.   Where the parcel is subdivided into larger tracts than for building
lots such parcels shall be divided so as to allow for the opening of major
streets and the ultimate extension of adjacent minor streets.
      C.   Subdivisions showing unplatted strips or private streets controlling
access to public ways will not receive approval.
   3.   Local Streets.
      A.   Local streets shall be so planned as to discourage through traffic.
      B.   Cul-de-sac streets are permitted where topography and other
conditions justify their use. Such streets shall not be longer than 500 feet
and shall terminate with a turnaround having an outside roadway diameter of at
least 80 feet and a street property line diameter of at least 100 feet. The
right-of-way width of the straight portion of such streets shall be a minimum
of 50 feet. The property line at the intersection of the turnaround and the
straight portion of the street shall be rounded at a radius of not less than 20
feet.
   4.   Frontage Streets.
      A.   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
arterial street, the Council may require marginal access streets, reverse
frontage with screen planting contained in a non-access reservation along the
rear property line, deep lots with rear service alleys. or such other treatment
as may be necessary for adequate protection of residential properties and to
afford separation of through and local traffic.
      B.   Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad right-of-way
or limited access highway right-of-way, the Council may require a street
approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way, at a distance
suitable for the appropriate use of the intertwining land, as for park purposes
in residential districts. Such distances shall also be determined with due
regard for the requirements of approach grades and future grade separations.
   5.   Half Streets. Half streets shall be prohibited except where essential
to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations, and where the Council finds it will be
practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided. Wherever a half street is adjacent to a tract to be
subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within such tract.
   6.   Street Geometries.
      A.   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall be
avoided.
      B.   A tangent at least 100 feet long shall be introduced between reverse
curves on arterial and collector streets.
      C.   When connecting street lines deflect from each other at anyone point
by more than 10 degrees, they shall be connected by a curve with a radius
adequate to insure a sight distance of not less than 200 feet for minor and
collector streets, and of such greater radii as the Council shall determine for
special cases.
   7.   Intersections.
      A.   Insofar as is practical, acute angles between streets at their
intersection are to be avoided.
      B.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles and no street shall intersect any other street at less than 60
degrees.
      C.   Property lines at street intersections shall be rounded with a
radius of 10 feet, or of a greater radius where the Council may deem it
necessary. The Council may permit comparable cutoffs or chords in place of
rounded corners.
   8.   Street Names. Streets that are in alignment with others already
existing and named shall bear the name of the existing streets. The proposed
names of new streets shall not duplicate or sound similar to existing street
names. Street names shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
   9.   Street Grades.
      A.   Street grades, wherever feasible, shall not exceed five percent,
with due allowance for reasonable vertical curves.
      B.   No street grade shall be less than one-half of one percent.
   10.   Alleys.
      A.   Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts,
except that the Council may waive this requirement where other definite and
assured provision is made for service access, such as off-street loading,
unloading, and parking consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed.
      B.   The width of an alley shall be 20 feet.
      C.   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided,
but where necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit safe
vehicular movements.
      D.   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if unavoidable,
shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead end, as
determined by the Council.
   11.   Blocks.
      A.   No block may be more than 1,320 feet or less than 500 feet in length
between the centerlines of intersecting streets, except where, in the opinion
of the Council, extraordinary conditions unquestionably justify a departure
from these limits.
      B.   In blocks over 700 feet in length, the Council may require at or
near the middle of the block a public way or easement of not less than 10 feet
in width for use by pedestrians and/or as an easement for public utilities.
   12.   Lots.
      A.   The lot size, width, depth, shape and orientation shall be
appropriate for the location of the subdivision and for the type of development
and use contemplated.
      B.   Minimum lot dimensions and sizes:
         (1)   Residential lots where not served by public sewer shall not be
less than 80 feet wide or less than 10,000 square feet in area.
         (2)   Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for
commercial and industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off-
street service and parking facilities required by the type of use and
development contemplated.
         (3)   Corner lots for residential use shall have an extra 10 feet of
width to permit appropriate building setback from and orientation to both
streets.
      C.   The subdividing of the land shall be such as to provide, by means of
public street, each lot with satisfactory access to an existing public street.
      D.   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots shall be avoided except
where essential to provide separation of residential development from traffic
arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation. A
planting screen easement of at least 10 feet and across which there shall be no
right of access shall be provided along the line of lots abutting such a
traffic artery or other disadvantageous use.
      E.   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to straight
street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   13.   Building Lines. Building lines shall be shown on all lots within the
platted area. The Council may require building lines in accordance with the
needs of each subdivision.
   14.   Easements.
      A.   Easement across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines shall be
provided for utilities where necessary and shall be at least 10 feet wide.
      B.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of such watercourse, and
further width for construction, or both, as will be adequate for the purpose.
   15.   Plat Markers. Markers shall be placed at all block corners, angle
points, points of curves in streets, and all such intermediate points as shall
be required by the Council. The markers shall be of such material, size and
length as may be approved by the Council.
165.12 PROCEDURES AND SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR PLATS.
   In obtaining final approval of a proposed subdivision by the Council, the
subdivider and owner shall submit a plat in accordance with the requirements
hereafter set forth and install improvements or provide a performance bond.
165.13 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   Whenever a subdivision located within the platting jurisdiction of the City
is proposed, the owner and subdivider shall schedule a pre-application
conference with the City Clerk. The conference should be attended by the City
Clerk and such other City or utility representatives as is deemed desirable;
and by the owner and said owner’s engineer and/or planner, as deemed desirable.
The purpose of such conference shall be to acquaint the City with the proposed
subdivision, and to acquaint the subdivider with the requirements, procedures,
and any special problems relating to the proposed subdivision.
165.14 SKETCH PLAN REQUIRED.
   For the pre-application conference, the subdivider shall provide a map or
sketch showing the location of the subdivision, the general location of any
proposed streets and other improvements, and the general layout and arrangement
of intended land uses, in relation to the surrounding area.
165.15 PRESENTATION TO COUNCIL.
   The subdivider may present the sketch plan to the Council for review, prior
to incurring significant costs preparing the preliminary or final plat.
165.16 SUBDIVISION CLASSIFIED.
   Any proposed subdivision or re-subdivision shall be classified as minor
subdivision or a major subdivision.
   1.   Minor Subdivision – any subdivision that contains not more than four
lots fronting on an existing street and that does not require construction of
any public improvements, and that does not adversely affect the remainder of
the parcel shall be classified as a minor plat.
   2.   Major Subdivision – any subdivision that, in the opinion of the
Council, does not for any reason meet the definition of a minor subdivision.
165.17 PLATS REQUIRED.
   In order to secure approval of a proposed subdivision, the owner and
subdivider of any major subdivision shall comply with the requirements for a
preliminary plat and the requirements for a final plat. The owner and
subdivider of a minor subdivision or an auditor’s plat may elect to omit the
submission of a preliminary plat.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.6)
165.18 REQUIREMENTS OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The subdivider shall prepare and file with the City Clerk four (4) copies of
a preliminary plat of adequate scale and size showing the following:
   1.   Title, scale, north point and date.
   2.   Subdivision boundary lines, showing dimensions, bearing angles, and
references to section, townships and range lines or corners.
   3.   Present and proposed streets, alleys and sidewalks, with their right-
of-way, in or adjoining the subdivision, including dedicated widths,
approximate gradients, types and widths of surfaces, curbs, and planting strips
and location of street lights.
   4.   Proposed layout of lots, showing numbers, dimensions, radii, chords and
the square foot areas of lots that are not rectangular.
   5.   Building setback or front yard lines.
   6.   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for schools,
parks, playgrounds, or other public, semi-public or community purposes.
   7.   Present and proposed easements, showing locations, widths, purposes and
limitation.
   8.   Present and proposed utility systems, including sanitary and storm
sewers, other drainage facilities, water lines, gas mains, electric utilities,
and other facilities, with the size, capacity, invert elevation and location of
each.
   9.   Proposed name of the subdivision which shall not duplicate or resemble
existing subdivision names in the County.
   10.   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, builder, and engineer,
surveyor or architect who prepared the preliminary plat, and the engineer,
surveyor or architect who will prepare the final plat.
   11.   Existing and proposed zoning of the proposed subdivision and adjoining
property.
   12.   A general summary description of any protective covenants or private
restrictions to be incorporated in the final plat.
   13.   Contours at vertical intervals of not more than two (2) feet if the
general slope of the site is less than ten percent and at vertical intervals of
not more than five (5) feet if the general slope is ten percent or greater,
unless the Council waives this requirement.
165.19 REFERRAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The City Clerk shall forthwith refer two (2) copies of the preliminary plat
to the City Engineer and (2) copies to the Council.
165.20 ACTION BY THE CITY ENGINEER.
   The City Engineer shall carefully examine said preliminary plat as to its
compliance with Section 354.8 of the Code of Iowa and the laws and regulations
of the City, the existing street system, and good engineering practices, and
shall, as soon as possible, submit the City Engineer’s findings in duplicate to
the Council, together with one copy of the plat received.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.8)
165.21 ACTION BY THE COUNCIL.
   The Council shall, upon receiving the report of the City Engineer, as soon
as possible, but not more than thirty (30) days thereafter, consider said
report, negotiate with the subdivider on changes deemed advisable and the kind
and extent of improvements to be made by the subdivider, and pass upon the
preliminary plat as originally submitted or modified. If the Council does not
act within 30 days, the preliminary plat shall be deemed to be approved,
provided, however, that the subdivider may agree to an extension of the time
for a period not to exceed an additional sixty (60) days. It shall then set
forth its recommendations in writing, whether of approval, modification or
disapproval.
   1.   In the event that substantial changes or modifications are made by the
Council or disapproval of the plat, it shall give its reasons therefor and it
may request and cause the revised preliminary plat to be resubmitted in the
same manner as the original plat.
   2.   If approved, the Council shall express its approval as “Conditional
Approval” and state the conditions of such approval, if any.
   3.   The action of the Council shall be noted on two (2) copies of the
preliminary plat, referenced and attached to any conditions determined. One
copy shall be returned to the subdivider and the other copy retained by the
Council.
   4.   The “Conditional Approval” by the Council shall not constitute final
acceptance of the addition or subdivision by the City but an authorization to
proceed with preparation of the final plat.
165.22 FINAL PLAT.
   The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as
approved, and, if desired by the subdivider, it may constitute only that
portion of the approved preliminary plat which the subdivider proposes to
record and develop at the time, provided, however, that such portion conforms
to all requirements of these regulations.
165.23 REFERRAL OF FINAL PLAT.
   The subdivider shall, within twelve (12) months of the “Conditional
Approval” of the preliminary plat by the Council, prepare and file four (4)
copies of the final plat and other required documents with the City Clerk as
hereinafter set forth, and upon the subdivider’s failure to do so within the
time specified, the “Conditional Approval” of the preliminary plat shall be
null and void unless an extension of times is applied for and granted by the
Council. Upon receipt of the final plat and other required documents, the City
Clerk shall transmit two (2) copies of the final plat to the Council for its
recommendations and approval. Except for a final plat for a minor subdivision
or an auditor’s plat as set forth herein, no final plat shall be considered by
the Council until and unless a preliminary plat for the area included in the
proposed final plat has been approved and has not expired and become void as
set forth above. At its discretion, the Council may refer the final plat to the
City Engineer pursuant to the procedure established in Section 165.18 of this
chapter.
165.24 REQUIREMENTS OF THE FINAL PLAT.
   The final plat shall conform to the requirements of Chapter 355, Code of
Iowa, and shall be clearly and legibly drawn to a scale of not more than 100
feet to one inch with permanent ink on a reproducible tracing material. It
shall show:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.8 and 355.8)
   1.   The title under which the subdivision is to be recorded.
   2.   The linear dimensions in feet and decimals of a foot of the subdivision
boundary, lot lines, streets, and alleys. These should be exact and complete to
include all distances, radii, arc, chords, points of tangency, and central
angles.
   3.   Street names and clear designations of public alleys. Streets that are
continuations of present streets should bear the same name. If new names are
needed, they should be distinctive. Street names may be required to conform to
the City Plan.
   4.   Location, type, materials, and size of all monuments and markers
including all U.S., County or other official benchmarks.
   5.   The signature and acknowledgment of the subdivision land owner and the
subdivision land owner’s spouse.
   6.   A sealed certification of the accuracy of the plat and that the plat
conforms to Section 354.8 of the Code of Iowa by the professional engineer or
land surveyor who drew the final plat.
165.25 FINAL PLAT ATTACHMENTS.
   The final plat shall have the following attached to it:
   1.   A correct description of the subdivision land.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.6[2])
   2.   A certificate by the owner and the owner’s spouse, if any, that the
subdivision is with the free consent, and is in accordance with the desire of
the owner and spouse. This certificate must be signed and acknowledged by the
owner and spouse before some officer authorized to take the acknowledgments of
deeds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.11[1])
   3.   A complete abstract of title and an attorney’s opinion showing that the
fee title to the subdivision land is in the owner’s name and that the land is
free from encumbrances other than those secured by an encumbrance bond.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.11[2])
   4.   A certificate from the County Treasurer that the subdivision land is
free from taxes.
   5.   A certificate from the Clerk of District Court that the subdivision
land is free from all judgments, attachments, mechanics or other liens of
record in the Clerk’s office.
   6.   A certificate from the County Recorder that the title in fee is in the
owner’s name and that it is free from encumbrances other than those secured by
an encumbrance bond.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.11[2])
   7.   A certificate of dedication of streets and other public property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.11[1])
   8.   A statement of restrictions of all types that run with the land and
become covenants in the deeds of lots.
   9.   Resolution and certificate for approval by the Council and for
signatures of the Mayor and Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.11[4])
   10.   Profiles, typical cross sections, and specifications of street
improvements and utility systems, to show the location, size and grade. These
should be shown on a 50-foot horizontal scale and a five-foot vertical scale
with west or south at the left.
   11.   A certificate by the City Clerk or similar official that all required
improvements and installations have been completed, or that a performance bond
guaranteeing completion has been approved by the City Attorney and filed with
the City Clerk, or that the Council has agreed that the City will provide the
necessary improvements and installations and assess the costs against the
subdivider or future property owners in the subdivision.
   12.   The encumbrance bond, if any, as specified in Sections 354.11 and
354.12, Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.11[2] and 354.12)
165.26 ACTION BY THE COUNCIL ON FINAL PLAT.
   Upon receipt of the plat, but not more than sixty (60) days following
submission of the final plat to the Clerk, as stated in Section 165.23, the
Council shall either approve or disapprove the final plat.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.8)
   1.   In the event that said plat is disapproved by the Council, such
disapproval shall be expressed in writing and shall point out wherein said
proposed plat is objectionable.
   2.   In the event that said plat is found to be acceptable and in accordance
with this ordinance, the Council shall accept the same.
   3.   The passage of a resolution by the Council accepting the plat shall
constitute final approval of the platting of the area shown on the final plat,
but the subdivider or owner shall cause such plat to be recorded in the office
of the County Recorder, and shall file satisfactory evidence of such recording
before the City shall recognize the plat as being in full force and effect.
165.27 VARIANCES.
   Where in the case of a particular proposed subdivision, it can be shown that
strict compliance with the requirement of this ordinance would result in
extraordinary hardship to the subdivider, because of unusual topography or
other conditions, the Council may vary, modify, or waive the requirements so
that substantial justice may be done and the public interest secure. Provided,
however, such variance, modification, or waiver will not have the effect of
nullifying the intent and purpose of this chapter. Such variances and waivers
may be granted only by the affirmative vote of three-fourths (3/4) of the
members of the Council.
165.28 CHAIN SUBDIVIDING.
   No more than two building permits for each separate tract existing at the
effective date of this chapter shall be issued unless the tract has been
platted in accordance with this chapter, except that this provision shall not
limit the number of building permits that may be issued for accessory buildings
or additions or improvements to a main or accessory building already legally
located upon said tract.
165.29 EXTRATERRITORIAL REVIEW AGREEMENT.
   The City may negotiate an extraterritorial review agreement between the City
and Woodbury County for the standards and conditions applied by the City for
review and approval of a subdivision as provided in Section 354.9 of the Code
of Iowa. The City may, by resolution, waive its right to review the subdivision
or waive the requirements of any of its standards or conditions for approval of
the subdivision in the extraterritorial area. Such resolution shall be
certified and recorded with the plat. Procedures for certifying approval of
subdivisions in the extraterritorial area of the City shall be the same as
those established for other subdivisions with the City unless waived by the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.8 and 354.9)
 
