CODE OF ORDINANCES
OF THE
CITY OF POSTVILLE, IOWA
Adopted February 10, 2025, by Ordinance No. 702-25
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
Prepared By:   Local Government Professional Services, Inc.
DBA Iowa Codification
P. O. Box 244
114 E 5th Street
Storm Lake, Iowa 50588
(641) 355-4072
www.sc-ic.com
 
SUPPLEMENT RECORD
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date Subject
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date   Subject
Jun-25    69.08(32)               703-25   6-9-25 Parking Regulations
          41.14                   704-25   6-9-25 Fireworks
 
CHAPTER 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES
 
1.01 Title                  1.08 Amendments
1.02 Definitions            1.09 Catchlines and Notes
1.03 City Powers            1.10 Altering Code
1.04 Indemnity              1.11 Severability
1.05 Personal Injuries      1.12 Warrants
1.06 Rules of Construction  1.13 General Standards for Action
1.07 Extension of Authority 1.14 Standard Penalty
 
1.01   TITLE.
   This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Postville, Iowa.
1.02   DEFINITIONS.
   Where words and phrases used in this Code of Ordinances are defined in the
Code of Iowa, such definitions apply to their use in this Code of Ordinances
unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the
Council or repugnant to the context of the provision. Other words and phrases
used herein have the following meanings, unless specifically defined otherwise
in another portion of this Code of Ordinances or unless such construction would
be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council or repugnant to the
context of the provision:
   1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street, affording
secondary means of access to abutting property.
   2.   “City” means the city of Postville, Iowa.
   3.   “Clerk” means the city clerk of Postville, Iowa.
   4.   “Code” means the specific chapter of this Code of Ordinances in which a
specific subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such as the
Building Code or a standard code adopted by reference).
   5.   “Code of Ordinances” means the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Postville, Iowa.
   6.   “Council” means the city council of Postville, Iowa.
   7.   “County” means Allamakee County and Clayton County, Iowa.
   8.   “IAC” means the Iowa Administrative Code.
   9.   “May” confers a power.
   10.   “Measure” means an ordinance, amendment, resolution, or motion.
   11.   “Must” states a requirement.
   12.   “Occupant” or “tenant,” applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
   13.   “Ordinances” means the ordinances of the City of Postville, Iowa, as
embodied in this Code of Ordinances, ordinances not repealed by the ordinance
adopting this Code of Ordinances, and those enacted hereafter.
   14.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust, or other
legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.
   15.   “Public way” includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.
   16.   “Shall” imposes a duty.
   17.   “Sidewalk” means that surfaced portion of the street between the edge
of the traveled way, surfacing, or curb line and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   18.   “State” means the State of Iowa.
   19.   “Statutes” or “laws” means the latest edition of the Code of Iowa, as
amended.
   20.   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
   Words that are not defined in this Code of Ordinances or by the Code of Iowa
have their ordinary meaning unless such construction would be inconsistent with
the manifest intent of the Council, or repugnant to the context of the
provision.
1.03   CITY POWERS.
   The City may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if
not inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any power
and perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the
rights, privileges, and property of the City and of its residents, and to
preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and
convenience of its residents, and each and every provision of this Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and
the performance of the foregoing functions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.1)
1.04   INDEMNITY.
   The applicant for any permit or license under this Code of Ordinances, by
making such application, assumes and agrees to pay for any injury to or death
of any person or persons whomsoever, and any loss of or damage to property
whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however arising
from or related to, directly, indirectly, or remotely, the issuance of the
permit or license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of such
applicant, or the agents, employees, or servants of such applicant, to abide by
or comply with any of the provisions of this Code of Ordinances or the terms
and conditions of such permit or license, and such applicant, by making such
application, forever agrees to indemnify the City and its officers, agents, and
employees, and agrees to save them harmless from any and all claims, demands,
lawsuits, or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage, injury, or death,
including all costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason of the foregoing.
The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a part of any permit or
license issued under this Code of Ordinances or any other ordinance of the
City, whether expressly recited therein or not.
1.05   PERSONAL INJURIES.
   When action is brought against the City for personal injuries alleged to
have been caused by its negligence, the City may notify in writing any person
by whose negligence it claims the injury was caused. The notice shall state the
pendency of the action, the name of the plaintiff, the name and location of the
court where the action is pending, a brief statement of the alleged facts from
which the cause arose, that the City believes that the person notified is
liable to it for any judgment rendered against the City, and asking the person
to appear and defend. A judgment obtained in the suit is conclusive in any
action by the City against any person so notified, as to the existence of the
defect or other cause of the injury or damage, as to the liability of the City
to the plaintiff in the first named action, and as to the amount of the damage
or injury. The City may maintain an action against the person notified to
recover the amount of the judgment together with all the expenses incurred by
the City in the suit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.14)
1.06   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the rules of statutory
construction as set forth in Chapter 4 of the Code of Iowa shall be utilized to
ascertain the intent of the Council, with the understanding that the term
“statute” as used therein will be deemed to be synonymous with the term
“ordinance” when applied to this Code of Ordinances.
1.07   EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
   Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this Code of Ordinances, the provision shall be construed as
authorizing performance by a regular assistant, subordinate, or a duly
authorized designee of said officer or employee.
1.08   AMENDMENTS.
   All ordinances that amend, repeal, or in any manner affect this Code of
Ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, subsection, or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.2)
1.09   CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this Code of Ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section, and subsection), editor’s notes, cross references,
and State law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself,
contained in this Code of Ordinances, do not constitute any part of the law and
are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement, or clarify the contents
of a section.
1.10   ALTERING CODE.
   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by additions
or deletions, any part or portion of this Code of Ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code of
Ordinances in any manner that will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented.
1.11   SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, provision, or part of this Code of Ordinances is adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity of
this Code of Ordinances as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof
not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
1.12   WARRANTS.
   If consent to enter upon or inspect any building, structure, or property
pursuant to a municipal ordinance is withheld by any person having the lawful
right to exclude, the City officer or employee having the duty to enter upon or
conduct the inspection may apply to the Iowa District Court in and for the
County, pursuant to Section 808.14 of the Code of Iowa, for an administrative
search warrant. No owner, operator or occupant, or any other person having
charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, rooming unit, structure,
building, or premises shall fail or neglect, after presentation of a search
warrant, to permit entry therein by the municipal officer or employee.
1.13   GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACTION.
   Whenever this Code of Ordinances grants any discretionary power to the
Council or any commission, board, or officer or employee of the City and does
not specify standards to govern the exercise of the power, the power shall be
exercised in light of the following standard: The discretionary power to grant,
deny, or revoke any matter shall be considered in light of the facts and
circumstances then existing and as may be reasonably foreseeable, and due
consideration shall be given to the impact upon the public health, safety and
welfare, and the decision shall be that of a reasonably prudent person under
similar circumstances in the exercise of the police power.
1.14   STANDARD PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this Code of Ordinances for
violation of any particular provision, section, or chapter, any person failing
to perform a duty required by this Code of Ordinances or otherwise violating
any provision of this Code of Ordinances or any rule or regulation adopted
herein by reference shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of at least
$105.00 but not to exceed $855.00.† 1
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[2] and 903.1[1a])
 
Notes
1 † EDITOR’S NOTE: For civil penalty for violations of this Code of Ordinances, see
  Chapter 3.
CHAPTER 2
CHARTER
 
2.01 Title                              2.04 Number and Term of Council
2.02 Form of Government                 2.05 Term of Mayor
2.03 Powers and Duties of City Officers 2.06 Copies on File
 
2.01   TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the charter of the City of Postville, Iowa.† 2
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 348 adopting a charter for the City was passed and
2 approved by the Council on July 6, 1972, and was published on July 12, 1972.
  Pursuant to an election held November 4, 1986, the term of office of the Mayor and
  Council was changed to four years.
2.02   FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government of the City is the Mayor-Council form of government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
2.03   POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   The Council and Mayor and other City officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by State law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the City.
2.04   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
   The Council consists of five Council Members elected at large for overlaping
terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.05   TERM OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor is elected for a term of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.06   COPIES ON FILE.
   The Clerk shall keep an official copy of the charter on file with the
official records of the Clerk and the Secretary of State, and shall keep copies
of the charter available at the Clerk’s office for public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.1[3])
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
 
3.01 Municipal Infraction    3.04 Civil Citations
3.02 Environmental Violation 3.05 Alternative Relief
3.03 Penalties               3.06 Alternative Penalties
 
3.01   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
   A violation of this Code of Ordinances or any ordinance or code herein
adopted by reference or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty
required by the same, with the exception of those provisions specifically
provided under State law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious
misdemeanor, or a simple misdemeanor under Chapters 687 through 747 of the Code
of Iowa, is a municipal infraction punishable by civil penalty as provided
herein.† 3
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[3])
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: For criminal penalty for violations of this Code of
3 Ordinances, see Section
  1.14.
3.02   ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATION.
   A municipal infraction that is a violation of Chapter 455B of the Code of
Iowa or of a standard established by the City in consultation with the
Department of Natural Resources, or both, may be classified as an environmental
violation. However, the provisions of this section shall not be applicable
until the City has offered to participate in informal negotiations regarding
the violation or to the following specific violations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
   1.   A violation arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment standard or
requirement referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8.
   2.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person not engaged in the industrial
production or manufacturing of grain products.
   3.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person engaged in such industrial production
or manufacturing if such discharge occurs from September 15 to January 15.
3.03   PENALTIES.
   A municipal infraction is punishable by the following civil penalties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
   1.   Standard Civil Penalties. In the event a civil penalty is not
specifically identified in Subsection 3 below or by a different section of
chapter of this Code, the following standard civil penalties shall apply:
      A.   First offense – not to exceed $750.00
      B.   Each repeat offense – not to exceed $1,000.00
   Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a
repeat offense.
   2.   Special Civil Penalties.
      A.   A municipal infraction arising from noncompliance with a
pretreatment standard or requirement, referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8, by an
industrial user is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each
day a violation exists or continues.
      B.   A municipal infraction classified as an environmental violation is
punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each occurrence.
However, an environmental violation is not subject to such penalty if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
         (1)   The violation results solely from conducting an initial startup,
cleaning, repairing, performing scheduled maintenance, testing, or conducting a
shutdown of either equipment causing the violation or the equipment designed to
reduce or eliminate the violation.
         (2)   The City is notified of the violation within 24 hours from the
time that the violation begins.
         (3)   The violation does not continue in existence for more than eight
hours.
   3.   Schedule of Civil Citation Penalties. The following civil penalties
shall be permitted to be imposed on a person who violates the referenced
provisions of this Code. Civil penalties shall be paid in addition to any
associated court costs, unless the City, at its sole discretion, assumes
liability for court costs.
Schedule of Civil Penalties
Code Section Simplified Description of Charge Penalty Amount
Schedule of Civil Penalties
Code Section Simplified Description of Charge                    Penalty Amount
41.11        Urinating in public                                 $100.00
41.12        Fireworks                                           $50.00
41.13        Carrying pellet guns and air rifles                 $250.00
Ch. 47       Park Violations after hours, driving on grass,      $50.00
             hunting, swimming, fires, camping, and more
47.07        Litter in parks                                     $100.00
50.02(13)    Outdoor use of indoor furnishings                   $50.00
52.03        Regulation of amplified sound sources               $100.00
55.10        Rabies vaccination tag                              $50.00
55.06        Animals at large                                    $100.00
55.06        Animals not on leash in park                        $100.00
55.09        Solid waste removal                                 $50.00
55.08        Chasing vehicles                                    $50.00
55.08        Noisy animal                                        $50.00
55.12        Animal trap                                         $50.00
67.03        Pedestrian right-of-way                             $50.00
Ch. 75       ATVs, UTVs, and Snowmobiles                         $50.00
75.04        Operation                                           $50.00
75.04        Restrictions                                        $50.00
76.03        Seats and passengers                                $50.00
76.04        Riding abreast                                      $50.00
76.09        Riding on sidewalk                                  $50.00
Ch. 78       Golf Carts                                          $50.00
Ch. 105      Placing debris on a public street or alley          $50.00
Ch. 105      Placing solid waste in public receptacles           $50.00
Ch. 105      Placement of refuse for collection                  $50.00
105.05       Burning                                             $100.00
105.07       Littering in public places                          $50.00
105.07       Throwing litter from vehicles                       $50.00
105.07       Vehicles causing litter                             $50.00
105.07       Litter in fountains, bodies of water                $100.00
105.10       Litter, handbills, notices, flyers, etc.            $50.00
105.11       Placing solid waste in another s container          $50.00
123.11       Peddler permit violation                            $200.00
135.03       Mowing adjacent to public streets                   $50.00
Ch. 136      Streets and sidewalks various activities prohibited $50.00
A second offense within a two-year period shall have a scheduled civil citation
penalty of twice the amount for a first offense. Third offenses within a two-
year period will require a court appearance and the City may request a civil
penalty consistent with Section
3.03(1).
 
 
3.04   CIVIL CITATIONS.
   Any officer authorized by the City to enforce this Code of Ordinances may
issue a civil citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction. A copy
of the citation may be served by personal service as provided in Rule of Civil
Procedure 1.305, by certified mail addressed to the defendant at defendant’s
last known mailing address, return receipt requested, or by publication in the
manner as provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.310 and subject to the
conditions of Rule of Civil Procedure 1.311. A copy of the citation shall be
retained by the issuing officer, and the original citation shall be sent to the
Clerk of the District Court. The citation shall serve as notification that a
civil offense has been committed and shall contain the following information:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[4])
   1.   The name and address of the defendant.
   2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation.
   3.   The location and time of the infraction.
   4.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative relief
sought, or both.
   5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid.
   6.   The time and place of court appearance.
   7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.
   8.   The legal description of the affected real property, if applicable.
   If the citation affects real property and charges a violation relating to
the condition of the property, including a building code violation, a local
housing regulation violation, a housing code violation, or a public health or
safety violation, after filing the citation with the Clerk of the District
Court, the City shall also file the citation in the office of the County
Treasurer.
3.05   ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.
   Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not preclude the
City from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action. Such
alternative relief may include, but is not limited to, an order for abatement
or injunctive relief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[9])
3.06   ALTERNATIVE PENALTIES.
   This chapter does not preclude a peace officer from issuing a criminal
citation for a violation of this Code of Ordinances or regulation if criminal
penalties are also provided for the violation. Nor does it preclude or limit
the authority of the City to enforce the provisions of this Code of Ordinances
by criminal sanctions or other lawful means.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[12])
CHAPTER 5
OPERATING PROCEDURES
 
5.01 Oaths                 5.07 Conflict of Interest
5.02 Bonds                 5.08 Resignations
5.03 Powers and Duties     5.09 Removal of Appointed Officers and Employees
5.04 Books and Records     5.10 Vacancies
5.05 Transfer to Successor 5.11 Gifts
5.06 Meetings
 
5.01   OATHS.
   The oath of office shall be required and administered in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Qualify for Office. Each elected or appointed officer shall qualify for
office by taking the prescribed oath and by giving, when required, a bond. The
oath shall be taken, and bond provided, after such officer is certified as
elected but not later than noon of the first day that is not a Sunday or a
legal holiday in January of the first year of the term for which the officer
was elected.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.1)
   2.   Prescribed Oath. The prescribed oath is: “I, (name), do solemnly swear
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of the State of Iowa, and that I will faithfully and impartially, to the best
of my ability, discharge all duties of the office of (name of office) in
__________ as now or hereafter required by law.”
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.10)
   3.   Officers Empowered to Administer Oaths. The following are empowered to
administer oaths and to take affirmations in any matter pertaining to the
business of their respective offices:
      A.   Mayor
      B.   City Clerk
      C.   Members of all boards, commissions, or bodies created by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63A.2)
5.02   BONDS.
   Surety bonds are provided in accordance with the following:
   1.   Required. The Council shall provide by resolution for a surety bond or
blanket position bond running to the City and covering the Mayor, Clerk,
Treasurer, and such other officers and employees as may be necessary and
advisable except as allowed in Subsection 5.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.13)
   2.   Bonds Approved. Bonds shall be approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.19)
   3.   Bonds Filed. All bonds, after approval and proper record, shall be
filed with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.23(6))
   4.   Record. The Clerk shall keep a book, to be known as the “Record of
Official Bonds” in which shall be recorded the official bonds of all City
officers, elective or appointive.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.24(1)(a))
   5.   Insurance Policy in Lieu of Bond. In lieu of a bond, a public officer
required to obtain a bond pursuant to Chapter 64 of the Code of Iowa may obtain
an insurance policy in an amount not less than the amounts required of a bond.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.3)
5.03   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Each municipal officer shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
prescribed by law and this Code of Ordinances, or as otherwise directed by the
Council unless contrary to State law or City charter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.04   BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   All books and records required to be kept by law or ordinance shall be open
to examination by the public upon request, unless some other provisions of law
expressly limit such right or require such records to be kept confidential.
Access to public records that are combined with data processing software shall
be in accordance with policies and procedures established by the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 22.2 and 22.3A)
5.05   TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR.
   Each officer shall transfer to his or her successor in office all books,
papers, records, documents and property in the officer’s custody and
appertaining to that office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.06   MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Council, any board or commission, or any multi-membered
body formally and directly created by any of the foregoing bodies shall be held
in accordance with the following:
   Definitions. The following terms are defined for use in this section.
      A.   “Closed session” means a meeting to which all members of the public
do not have access as allowed by Section 21.5 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   “Hybrid meeting” means a meeting involving both remote participation
and in-person participation by members.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(a))
      C.   “Open session” means a meeting to which all members of the public
have access.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.2(3))
      D.   “Remote participation” means real-time participation by a remotely
located individual in a meeting which is being held in a different physical
location using integrated audio, video, and other digital tools.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(b))
      E.   “Reasonable notice” means advising the news media who have filed a
request for notice with the governmental body and posting the notice on a
bulletin board or other prominent place which is easily accessible to the
public and clearly designated for that purpose at the principal office of the
body holding the meeting, or if not such office exists, at the building in
which the meeting is to be held.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4(1))
      F.   “Teleconference participation” means participation using audio
conference tools involving multiple participants in at least two separate
locations.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(c))
      G.   “Virtual meeting” means a meeting involving real-time interaction
using integrated audio, video, and other digital tools, in which participants
do not share a physical location.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(d))
   2.   Notice of Meetings. Reasonable notice of the time, date, and place of
each meeting and its tentative agenda shall be given.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4)
   3.   Meetings Open. All meetings shall be held in open session unless closed
sessions are held as expressly permitted by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   4.   Minutes. Minutes shall be kept of all meetings showing the date, time,
and place, the members present, and the action taken at each meeting. The
minutes shall show the results of each vote taken and information sufficient to
indicate the vote of each member present. The vote of each member present shall
be made public at the open session. The minutes shall be public records open to
public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   5.   Closed Session. A closed session may be held only by affirmative vote
of either two-thirds of the body or all of the members present at the meeting
and in accordance with Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.5)
   6.   Cameras and Recorders. The public may use cameras or recording devices
at any open session.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.7)
   7.   Electronic Meetings. A governmental body shall provide for hybrid
meetings, teleconference participation, virtual meetings, remote participation,
and other hybrid options for the members of the governmental body to
participate in official meetings. A governmental body conducting a meeting
pursuant to this subsection shall comply with all of the provisions of Chapter
21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8)
5.07   CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   A City officer or employee shall not have an interest, direct or indirect,
in any contract or job of work or material or the profits thereof or services
to be furnished or performed for the City, unless expressly permitted by law. A
contract entered into in violation of this section is void. The provisions of
this section do not apply to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5)
   1.   Compensation of Officers. The payment of lawful compensation of a City
officer or employee holding more than one City office or position, the holding
of which is not incompatible with another public office or is not prohibited by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3a])
   2.   Investment of Funds. The designation of a bank or trust company as a
depository, paying agent, or for investment of funds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3b])
   3.   City Treasurer. An employee of a bank or trust company, who serves as
Treasurer of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3c])
   4.   Stock Interests. Contracts in which a City officer or employee has an
interest solely by reason of employment, or a stock interest of the kind
described in Subsection 8 of this section, or both, if the contracts are made
by competitive bid in writing, publicly invited and opened, or if the
remuneration of employment will not be directly affected as a result of the
contract and the duties of employment do not directly involve the procurement
or preparation of any part of the contract. The competitive bid qualification
of this subsection does not apply to a contract for professional services not
customarily awarded by competitive bid.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3e])
   5.   Newspaper. The designation of an official newspaper.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3f])
   6.   Existing Contracts. A contract in which a City officer or employee has
an interest if the contract was made before the time the officer or employee
was elected or appointed, but the contract may not be renewed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3g])
   7.   Volunteers. Contracts with volunteer firefighters or civil defense
volunteers.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3h])
   8.   Corporations. A contract with a corporation in which a City officer or
employee has an interest by reason of stock holdings when less than five
percent of the outstanding stock of the corporation is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the officer or employee or the spouse or immediate
family of such officer or employee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3i])
   9.   Contracts. Contracts made by the City upon competitive bid in writing,
publicly invited and opened.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3d])
   10.   Cumulative Purchases. Contracts not otherwise permitted by this
section, for the purchase of goods or services that benefit a City officer or
employee, if the purchases benefiting that officer or employee do not exceed a
cumulative total purchase price of $6,000.00 in a fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3j])
   11.   Franchise Agreements. Franchise agreements between the City and a
utility and contracts entered into by the City for the provision of essential
City utility services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3k])
   12.   Third Party Contracts. A contract that is a bond, note or other
obligation of the City and the contract is not acquired directly from the City
but is acquired in a transaction with a third party who may or may not be the
original underwriter, purchaser, or obligee of the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3l])
5.08   RESIGNATIONS.
   An elected officer who wishes to resign may do so by submitting a
resignation in writing to the Clerk so that it shall be properly recorded and
considered. A person who resigns from an elective office is not eligible for
appointment to the same office during the time for which the person was elected
if, during that time, the compensation of the office has been increased.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[9])
5.09   REMOVAL OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Except as otherwise provided by State or City law, all persons appointed to
City office or employment may be removed by the officer or body making the
appointment, but every such removal shall be by written order. The order shall
give the reasons, be filed in the office of the Clerk, and a copy shall be sent
by certified mail to the person removed, who, upon request filed with the Clerk
within 30 days after the date of mailing the copy, shall be granted a public
hearing before the Council on all issues connected with the removal. The
hearing shall be held within 30 days after the date the request is filed,
unless the person removed requests a later date.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.15)
5.10   VACANCIES.
   A vacancy in an elective City office during a term of office shall be filled
in accordance with Section 372.13[2] of the Code of Iowa.
5.11   GIFTS.
   Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 68B of the Code of Iowa, a public
official, public employee or candidate, or that person’s immediate family
member, shall not, directly or indirectly, accept or receive any gift or series
of gifts from a “restricted donor” as defined in Chapter 68B and a restricted
donor shall not, directly or indirectly, individually or jointly with one or
more other restricted donors, offer or make a gift or a series of gifts to a
public official, public employee, or candidate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 68B.22)
CHAPTER 6
CITY ELECTIONS
 
6.01 Nominating Method to Be Used 6.05 Filing; Presumption; Withdrawals;
                                  Objections
6.02 Nominations by Petition      6.06 Persons Elected
6.03 Adding Name by Petition      6.07 Election Precincts
6.04 Preparation of Petition and
Affidavit
 
6.01   NOMINATING METHOD TO BE USED.
   All candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated under the
provisions of Chapter 45 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.3)
6.02   NOMINATIONS BY PETITION.
   Nominations for elective municipal offices of the City may be made by
nomination paper or papers signed by not less than 25 eligible electors,
residents of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.1)
6.03   ADDING NAME BY PETITION.
   The name of a candidate placed upon the ballot by any other method than by
petition shall not be added by petition for the same office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.2)
6.04   PREPARATION OF PETITION AND AFFIDAVIT.
   Nomination papers shall include a petition and an affidavit of candidacy.
The petition and affidavit shall be substantially in the form prescribed by the
State Commissioner of Elections, shall include information required by the Code
of Iowa, and shall be signed in accordance with the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.3, 45.5, and 45.6)
6.05   FILING; PRESUMPTION; WITHDRAWALS; OBJECTIONS.
   The time and place of filing nomination petitions, the presumption of
validity thereof, the right of a candidate so nominated to withdraw and the
effect of such withdrawal, and the right to object to the legal sufficiency of
such petitions, or to the eligibility of the candidate, shall be governed by
the appropriate provisions of Chapter 44 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.4)
6.06   PERSONS ELECTED.
   The candidates who receive the greatest number of votes for each office on
the ballot are elected, to the extent necessary to fill the positions open.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.8[3])
6.07   ELECTION PRECINCTS.
   The City is divided into the following two election precincts of the City:
   1.   First Precinct. The First Precinct includes all of that part of the
incorporated City lying in Allamakee County north of the County boundary line,
which is also Hardin Drive/100th Street.
   2.   Second Precinct. The Second Precinct includes all of Grand Meadow
Township including all of that part of the incorporated City lying in Clayton
County south of the County boundary line, which is also Hardin Drive/100th
Street.
   3.   The precincts described above include all territory annexed to the City
on or before November 1, 2001. Territory annexed to the City subsequent to
November 1, 2001, but prior to the next federal decennial census or special
federal census shall be attached, by ordinance, to the precinct of the county
in which the annexed territory is located in.
CHAPTER 7
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
 
7.01 Purpose         7.05 Operating Budget Preparation
7.02 Finance Officer 7.06 Budget Amendments
7.03 Cash Control    7.07 Accounting
7.04 Fund Control    7.08 Financial Reports
 
7.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and provide for rules
and regulations governing the management of the financial affairs of the City.
7.02   FINANCE OFFICER.
   The Clerk is the finance and accounting officer of the City and is
responsible for the administration of the provisions of this chapter.
7.03   CASH CONTROL.
   To assure the proper accounting and safe custody of moneys the following
shall apply:
   1.   Deposit of Funds. All moneys or fees collected for any purpose by any
City officer shall be deposited through the office of the finance officer. If
any said fees are due to an officer, they shall be paid to the officer by check
drawn by the finance officer and approved by the Council only upon such
officer’s making adequate reports relating thereto as required by law,
ordinance, or Council directive.
   2.   Deposits and Investments. All moneys belonging to the City shall be
promptly deposited in depositories selected by the Council in amounts not
exceeding the authorized depository limitation established by the Council or
invested in accordance with the City’s written investment policy and State law,
including joint investments as authorized by Section 384.21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.21, 12B.10, 12C.1)
   3.   Petty Cash Fund. The finance officer shall be custodian of a petty cash
fund for the payment of small claims for minor purchases, collect-on-delivery
transportation charges, and small fees customarily paid at the time of
rendering a service, for which payments the finance officer shall obtain some
form of receipt or bill acknowledged as paid by the vendor or agent. At such
time as the petty cash fund is approaching depletion, the finance officer shall
draw a check for replenishment in the amount of the accumulated expenditures
and said check and supporting detail shall be submitted to the Council as a
claim in the usual manner for claims and charged to the proper funds and
accounts. It shall not be used for salary payments or other personal services
or personal expenses.
7.04   FUND CONTROL.
   There shall be established and maintained separate and distinct funds in
accordance with the following:
   1.   Revenues. All moneys received by the City shall be credited to the
proper fund as required by law, ordinance, or resolution.
   2.   Expenditures. No disbursement shall be made from a fund unless such
disbursement is authorized by law, ordinance, or resolution, was properly
budgeted, and supported by a claim approved by the Council.
   3.   Emergency Fund. No transfer may be made from any fund to the Emergency
Fund.
(545 IAC 2.5[2])
   4.   Debt Service Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by State law,
moneys may be transferred from any other City fund to the Debt Service Fund to
meet payments of principal and interest. Such transfers must be authorized by
the original budget or a budget amendment.
(545 IAC 2.5[3])
   5.   Capital Improvements Reserve Fund. Except where specifically prohibited
by State law, moneys may be transferred from any City fund to the Capital
Improvements Reserve Fund. Such transfers must be authorized by the original
budget or a budget amendment.
(545 IAC 2.5[4])
   6.   Utility and Enterprise Funds. A surplus in a Utility or Enterprise Fund
may be transferred to any other City fund, except the Emergency Fund, by
resolution of the Council. A surplus may exist only after all required
transfers have been made to any restricted accounts in accordance with the
terms and provisions of any revenue bonds or loan agreements relating to the
Utility or Enterprise Fund. A surplus is defined as the cash balance in the
operating account or the unrestricted net position calculated in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, after adding back the net
pension and other postemployment benefits, liabilities, and the related
deferred inflows of resources and deducting the related deferred outflows of
resources, in excess of:
      A.   The amount of the expenses of disbursements for operating and
maintaining the utility or enterprise for the preceding three months; and
      B.   The amount necessary to make all required transfers to restricted
accounts for the succeeding three months.
(545 IAC 2.5[5])
   7.   Balancing of Funds. Fund accounts shall be reconciled at the close of
each month and a report thereof submitted to the Council.
7.05   OPERATING BUDGET PREPARATION.
   The annual operating budget of the City shall be prepared in accordance with
the following:
   1.   Proposal Prepared. The finance officer is responsible for preparation
of the annual budget detail, for review by the Mayor and Council and adoption
by the Council in accordance with directives of the Mayor and Council.
   2.   Boards and Commissions. All boards, commissions, and other
administrative agencies of the City that are authorized to prepare and
administer budgets must submit their budget proposals to the finance officer
for inclusion in the proposed City budget at such time and in such form as
required by the Council.
   3.   Submission to Council. The finance officer shall submit the completed
budget proposal to the Council each year at such time as directed by the
Council.
   4.   Annual Statement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 24.2A(2))
      A.   On or before 4:00 p.m. on March 5 of each year, the City shall file,
with the Department of Management, a report containing all necessary
information for the Department of Management to compile and calculate amounts
required to be included in the statement mailed under Paragraph B.
      B.   Not later than March 15, the County Auditor, using information
compiled and calculated by the Department of Management shall send to each
property owner or taxpayer within the County, by regular mail, an individual
statement containing all of the required information as provided under Section
24.2(2)(B)(1-10) of the Code of Iowa.
      C.   The Department of Management shall prescribe the form for the report
required under Paragraph A, the statements to be mailed under Paragraph B, and
the public hearing notice required under Paragraph D.
      D.   The Council shall set a time and place for a public hearing on the
City’s proposed property tax amount for the budget year and the City’s
information included in the statements under Paragraph B. The proposed property
tax hearing shall be set on a date on or after March 20 of the budget year
immediately preceding the budget year for which the tax is being proposed. At
the hearing, the Council shall receive oral or written testimony from any
resident or property owner of the City. This public hearing shall be separate
from any other meeting of the Council, including any other meeting or public
hearing relating to the City’s budget, and other business of the City that is
not related to the proposed property tax amounts and the information in the
statements shall not be conducted at the public hearing. After all testimony
has been received and considered, the governing body may decrease, but not
increase, the proposed property tax amount to be included in the City’s budget.
         (1)   Notice of the public hearing shall be published not less than 10
nor more than 20 days prior to the hearing, in a newspaper published at least
once weekly and having general circulation in the City. However, if the City
has a population of 200 or less, publication may be made by posting in three
public places in the City.
         (2)   Notice of the hearing shall also be posted and clearly
identified on the City’s internet site for public viewing beginning on the date
of the newspaper publication and shall be maintained on the City’s internet
site with all such prior year notices.
         (3)   Additionally, if the City maintains a social media account on
one or more social media applications, the public hearing notice or an
electronic link to the public hearing notice shall be posted on each such
account on a date no later than the date of publication of the notice.
         (4)   Failure of a newspaper to publish a required notice under this
paragraph shall not be considered a failure of a political subdivision to
provide required notice under this paragraph if all of the following conditions
are met:
            a.   Notice of the public hearing was provided to each property
owner and each taxpayer within the political subdivision in statements required
under Section 24.2A(2)(b) of the Code of Iowa.
            b.   The political subdivision can demonstrate to the county
auditor that the political subdivision provided sufficient time for the
newspaper to publish the notice.
   5.   Council Review. The Council shall review the proposed budget and may
make any adjustments it deems appropriate in the budget before accepting such
proposal for publication, hearing, and final adoption.
   6.   Notice of Hearing. Following, and not until the requirements, of
Subsection 4 of this section, are completed, the Council shall set a time and
place for public hearing on the budget to be held before April 30 and shall
publish notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days before the
hearing. A summary of the proposed budget and a description of the procedure
for protesting the City budget under Section 384.19 of the Code of Iowa, in the
form prescribed by the Director of the Department of Management, shall be
included in the notice. Proof of publication of the notice under this
subsection must be filed with the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[3])
   7.   Copies of Budget on File. Not less than 20 days before the date that
the budget must be certified to the County Auditor and not less than 10 days
before the public hearing, the Clerk shall make available a sufficient number
of copies of the detailed budget to meet the requests of taxpayers and
organizations, and have them available for distribution at the offices of the
Mayor and Clerk and at the City library.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[2])
   8.   Adoption and Certification. After the hearing, the Council shall adopt,
by resolution, a budget for at least the next fiscal year and the Clerk shall
certify the necessary tax levy for the next fiscal year to the County Auditor
and the County Board of Supervisors. The tax levy certified may be less than,
but not more than, the amount estimated in the proposed budget submitted at the
final hearing, unless an additional tax levy is approved at a City election.
Two copies each of the detailed budget as adopted and of the tax certificate
must be transmitted to the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[5])
7.06   BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
   A City budget finally adopted for the following fiscal year becomes
effective July 1 and constitutes the City appropriation for each program and
purpose specified therein until amended as provided by this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.18)
   1.   Program Increase. Any increase in the amount appropriated to a program
must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as the
original budget.
(545 IAC 2.2)
   2.   Program Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one program to
another must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as
the original budget.
(545 IAC 2.3)
   3.   Activity Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one activity to
another activity within a program must be approved by resolution of the
Council.
(545 IAC 2.4)
   4.   Administrative Transfers. The finance officer shall have the authority
to adjust, by transfer or otherwise, the appropriations allocated within a
specific activity without prior Council approval.
(545 IAC 2.4)
7.07   ACCOUNTING.
   The accounting records of the City shall consist of not less than the
following:
   1.   Books of Original Entry. There shall be established and maintained
books of original entry to provide a chronological record of cash received and
disbursed.
   2.   General Ledger. There shall be established and maintained a general
ledger controlling all cash transactions, budgetary accounts and for recording
unappropriated surpluses.
   3.   Checks. Checks shall be prenumbered and signed by the Clerk and Mayor
following Council approval, except as provided by Subsection 5 hereof.
   4.   Budget Accounts. There shall be established such individual accounts to
record receipts by source and expenditures by program and activity as will
provide adequate information and control for budgeting purposes as planned and
approved by the Council. Each individual account shall be maintained within its
proper fund and so kept that receipts can be immediately and directly compared
with revenue estimates and expenditures can be related to the authorizing
appropriation. No expenditure shall be posted except to the appropriation for
the function and purpose for which the expense was incurred.
   5.   Immediate Payment Authorized. The Council may by resolution authorize
the Clerk to issue checks for immediate payment of amounts due, which if not
paid promptly would result in loss of discount, penalty for late payment or
additional interest cost. Any such payments made shall be reported to the
Council for review and approval with and in the same manner as other claims at
the next meeting following such payment. The resolution authorizing immediate
payment shall specify the type of payment so authorized and may include (but is
not limited to) payment of utility bills, contractual obligations, payroll, and
bond principal and interest.
   6.   Utilities. The finance officer shall perform and be responsible for
accounting functions of the municipally owned utilities.
7.08   FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   The finance officer shall prepare and file the following financial reports:
   1.   Monthly Reports. There shall be submitted to the Council each month a
report showing the activity and status of each fund, program, sub-program, and
activity for the preceding month.
   2.   Annual Report. Not later than December 1 of each year there shall be
published an annual report containing a summary for the preceding fiscal year
of all collections and receipts, all accounts due the City, and all
expenditures, the current public debt of the City, and the legal debt limit of
the City for the current fiscal year. The Annual Financial Report shall be
prepared on forms and pursuant to instructions prescribed by the Auditor of
State. Beginning with the Annual Financial Report published by December 1,
2025, each report shall include a list of bonds, notes, or other obligations
issued by the City during the most recently completed fiscal year, and the
applicable lists for other fiscal years beginning on or after July 1, 2024, for
which obligations remain unpaid, payable from any source, including the amount
of the issuance, the project or purpose of the issuance, whether the issuance
was approved at election, eligible to be subject to a petition for an election,
or was exempt from approval at election as the result of statutory exclusions
based on population of the City or amount of the issuance, and identification
of issuances from the fiscal year or prior fiscal years related to the same
project or purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.22)
CHAPTER 8
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTIONS
 
8.01 Purpose                        8.06 Applications
8.02 Definitions                    8.07 Approval
8.03 Period of Partial Exemption    8.08 Exemption Repealed
8.04 Amounts Eligible for Exemption 8.09 Dual Exemptions Prohibited
8.05 Limitations
 
8.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a partial exemption from
property taxation of the actual value added to industrial real estate by the
new construction of industrial real estate, research-service facilities,
warehouses, and distribution centers.
8.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Actual value added” means the actual value added as of the first year
for which the exemption is received.
   2.   “Distribution center” means a building or structure used primarily for
the storage of goods that are intended for subsequent shipment to retail
outlets. Distribution center does not mean a building or structure used
primarily to store raw agricultural products, used primarily by a manufacturer
to store goods to be used in the manufacturing process, used primarily for the
storage of petroleum products, or used for the retail sale of goods.
   3.   “New construction” means new buildings and structures and includes new
buildings and structures that are constructed as additions to existing
buildings and structures. New construction does not include reconstruction of
an existing building or structure that does not constitute complete replacement
of an existing building or structure or refitting of an existing building or
structure unless the reconstruction of an existing building or structure is
required due to economic obsolescence and the reconstruction is necessary to
implement recognized industry standards for the manufacturing and processing of
specific products and the reconstruction is required for the owner of the
building or structure to continue competitively to manufacture or process those
products, which determination shall receive prior approval from the City
Council.
   4.   “Research-service facilities” means a building or group of buildings
devoted primarily to research and development activities, including (but not
limited to) the design and production or manufacture of prototype products for
experimental use and corporate research services that do not have a primary
purpose of providing on-site services to the public.
   5.   “Warehouse” means a building or structure used as a public warehouse
for the storage of goods pursuant to Chapter 554, Article 7, of the Code of
Iowa, except that it does not mean a building or structure used primarily to
store raw agricultural products or from which goods are sold at retail.
8.03   PERIOD OF PARTIAL EXEMPTION.
   The actual value added to industrial real estate by the new construction of
industrial real estate, research-service facilities, warehouses, and
distribution centers is eligible to receive a partial exemption from taxation
for a period of five years. The exemption shall also apply to the acquisition
of or improvement to machinery and equipment assessed as real estate pursuant
to Section 427A.1[1e] of the Code of Iowa, unless the machinery or equipment is
part of the normal replacement or operating process to maintain or expand the
existing operational status.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
8.04   AMOUNTS ELIGIBLE FOR EXEMPTION.
   The amount of actual value added, which is eligible to be exempt from
taxation, shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
   1.   For the first year, 75 percent.
   2.   For the second year, 60 percent.
   3.   For the third year, 45 percent.
   4.   For the fourth year, 30 percent.
   5.   For the fifth year, 15 percent.
8.05   LIMITATIONS.
   The granting of the exemption under this chapter for new construction
constituting complete replacement of an existing building or structure shall
not result in the assessed value of the industrial real estate being reduced
below the assessed value of the industrial real estate before the start of the
new construction added.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
8.06   APPLICATIONS.
   An application shall be filed for each project resulting in actual value
added for which an exemption is claimed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)
   1.   The application for exemption shall be filed by the owner of the
property with the local assessor by February 1 of the assessment year in which
the value added is first assessed for taxation.
   2.   Applications for exemption shall be made on forms prescribed by the
Director of Revenue and shall contain information pertaining to the nature of
the improvement, its cost, and other information deemed necessary by the
Director of Revenue.
8.07   APPROVAL.
   A person may submit a proposal to the City Council to receive prior approval
for eligibility for a tax exemption on new construction. If the City Council
resolves to consider such proposal, it shall publish notice and hold a public
hearing thereon. Thereafter, at least 30 days after such hearing, the City
Council, by ordinance, may give its prior approval of a tax exemption for new
construction if the new construction is in conformance with City zoning. Such
prior approval shall not entitle the owner to exemption from taxation until the
new construction has been completed and found to be qualified real estate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)
8.08   EXEMPTION REPEALED.
   When in the opinion of the City Council continuation of the exemption
granted by this chapter ceases to be of benefit to the City, the City Council
may repeal this chapter, but all existing exemptions shall continue until their
expiration.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.5)
8.09   DUAL EXEMPTIONS PROHIBITED.
   A property tax exemption under this chapter shall not be granted if the
property for which the exemption is claimed has received any other property tax
exemption authorized by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.6)
CHAPTER 10
URBAN RENEWAL
EDITOR’S NOTE 
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED           NAME OF AREA
525-98        October 12, 1998  Postville Urban Renewal Area
541-00        February 14, 2000 Postville Urban Renewal Area South
569-02        March 25, 2002    Postville Urban Renewal Area Amendment No. 1
570-02        February 25, 2002 Postville Urban Renewal Area Northeast
608-05        July 11, 2005     Postville Urban Renewal Area South Amendment
                                No. 1
 
CHAPTER 11
URBAN REVITALIZATION
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted designating Urban Revitalization Areas in the City
and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED NAME OF AREA
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted designating Urban Revitalization Areas in the City
and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED           NAME OF AREA
618-05        November 28, 2005 Postville Urban Revitalization Area
 
CHAPTER 15
MAYOR
 
15.01 Term of Office    15.04 Compensation
15.02 Powers and Duties 15.05 Voting
15.03 Appointments
 
15.01   TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Mayor is elected for a term of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
15.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Mayor are as follows:
   1.   Chief Executive Officer. Act as the chief executive officer of the City
and presiding officer of the Council, supervise all departments of the City,
give direction to department heads concerning the functions of the departments,
and have the power to examine all functions of the municipal departments, their
records and to call for special reports from department heads at any time.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
   2.   Proclamation of Emergency. Have authority to take command of the police
and govern the City by proclamation, upon making a determination that a time of
emergency or public danger exists. Within the City limits, the Mayor has all
the powers conferred upon the Sheriff to suppress disorders.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[2])
   3.   Special Meetings. Call special meetings of the Council when the Mayor
deems such meetings necessary to the interests of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
   4.   Mayor’s Veto. Sign, veto, or take no action on an ordinance, amendment,
or resolution passed by the Council. The Mayor may veto an ordinance,
amendment, or resolution within 14 days after passage. The Mayor shall explain
the reasons for the veto in a written message to the Council at the time of the
veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.5 and 380.6[2])
   5.   Reports to Council. Make such oral or written reports to the Council as
required. These reports shall concern municipal affairs generally, the
municipal departments, and recommendations suitable for Council action.
   6.   Negotiations. Represent the City in all negotiations properly entered
into in accordance with law or ordinance. The Mayor shall not represent the
City where this duty is specifically delegated to another officer by law,
ordinance, or Council direction.
   7.   Contracts. Whenever authorized by the Council, sign contracts on behalf
of the City.
   8.   Professional Services. Upon order of the Council, secure for the City
such specialized and professional services not already available to the City.
In executing the order of the Council, the Mayor shall act in accordance with
this Code of Ordinances and the laws of the State.
   9.   Licenses and Permits. Sign all licenses and permits that have been
granted by the Council, except those designated by law or ordinance to be
issued by another municipal officer.
   10.   Nuisances. Issue written order for removal, at public expense, any
nuisance for which no person can be found responsible and liable.
   11.   Absentee Officer. Make appropriate provision that duties of any
absentee officer be carried on during such absence.
15.03   APPOINTMENTS.
   1.   The Mayor shall appoint the following officials:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
      A.   Mayor Pro Tem
      B.   Alarm Review Board
   2.   The following appointments shall be made by the Mayor with Council
approval:
      A.   Police Chief
      B.   Police Officers
      C.   Library Board of Trustees
      D.   Swimming Pool, Parks, and Recreation Board
      E.   Tree Board
      F.   Zoning Administrator
      G.   Zoning Board of Adjustment
      H.   Administrative Officer
15.04   COMPENSATION.
   The salary of the Mayor is $3,625.00 per year, paid annually.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
15.05   VOTING.
   The Mayor is not a member of the Council and shall not vote as a member of
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
CHAPTER 16
MAYOR PRO TEM
 
16.01 Vice President of Council 16.03 Voting Rights
16.02 Powers and Duties         16.04 Compensation
 
16.01   VICE PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
   The Mayor shall appoint a member of the Council as Mayor Pro Tem, who shall
serve as vice president of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Except for the limitations otherwise provided herein, the Mayor Pro Tem
shall perform the duties of the Mayor in cases of absence or inability of the
Mayor to perform such duties. In the exercise of the duties of the office the
Mayor Pro Tem shall not have power to appoint, employ, or discharge from
employment officers or employees that the Mayor has the power to appoint,
employ, or discharge without the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.03   VOTING RIGHTS.
   The Mayor Pro Tem shall have the right to vote as a member of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.04   COMPENSATION.
   If the Mayor Pro Tem performs the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor’s
absence or disability for a continuous period of 15 days or more, the Mayor Pro
Tem may be paid for that period the compensation as determined by the Council,
based upon the Mayor Pro Tem’s performance of the Mayor’s duties and upon the
compensation of the Mayor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 17
CITY COUNCIL
 
17.01 Number and Term of Council 17.04 Council Meetings
17.02 Powers and Duties          17.05 Appointments
17.03 Exercise of Power          17.06 Compensation
 
17.01   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
   The Council consists of five Council members elected at large for
overlapping terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4 and 376.2)
17.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Council include, but are not limited to the
following:
   1.   General. All powers of the City are vested in the Council except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
   2.   Wards. By ordinance, the Council may divide the City into wards based
upon population, change the boundaries of wards, eliminate wards, or create new
wards.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[7])
   3.   Fiscal Authority. The Council shall apportion and appropriate all
funds, and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls, and claims, and order
payment thereof. It shall make all assessments for the cost of street
improvements, sidewalks, sewers, and other work, improvement, or repairs that
may be specially assessed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1], 384.16, and 384.38[1])
   4.   Public Improvements. The Council shall make all orders for the
construction of any improvements, bridges, or buildings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
   5.   Contracts. The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts. No contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the City unless
approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 26)
   6.   Employees. The Council shall authorize, by resolution, the number,
duties, term of office, and compensation of employees or officers not otherwise
provided for by State law or the Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   7.   Setting Compensation for Elected Officers. By ordinance, the Council
shall prescribe the compensation of the Mayor, Council members, and other
elected City officers, but a change in the compensation of the Mayor does not
become effective during the term in which the change is adopted, and the
Council shall not adopt such an ordinance changing the compensation of any
elected officer during the months of November and December in the year of a
regular City election. A change in the compensation of Council members becomes
effective for all Council members at the beginning of the term of the Council
members elected at the election next following the change in compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
17.03   EXERCISE OF POWER.
   The Council shall exercise a power only by the passage of a motion, a
resolution, an amendment, or an ordinance in the following manner:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[1])
   1.   Action by Council. Passage of an ordinance, amendment, or resolution
requires a majority vote of all of the members of the Council. Passage of a
motion requires a majority vote of a quorum of the Council. A resolution must
be passed to spend public funds in excess of $100,000.00 on a public
improvement project, or to accept public improvements and facilities upon their
completion. Each Council member’s vote on a measure must be recorded. A measure
that fails to receive sufficient votes for passage shall be considered
defeated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.4)
   2.   Overriding Mayor’s Veto. Within 30 days after the Mayor’s veto, the
Council may pass the measure again by a vote of not less than two-thirds of all
of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
   3.   Measures Become Effective. Measures passed by the Council become
effective in one of the following ways:
      A.   An ordinance or amendment signed by the Mayor becomes effective when
the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a subsequent
effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1a])
      B.   A resolution signed by the Mayor becomes effective immediately upon
signing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1b])
      C.   A motion becomes effective immediately upon passage of the motion by
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1c])
      D.   If the Mayor vetoes an ordinance, amendment, or resolution and the
Council repasses the measure after the Mayor’s veto, a resolution becomes
effective immediately upon repassage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes a
law when the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a
subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
      E.   If the Mayor takes no action on an ordinance, amendment, or
resolution, a resolution becomes effective 14 days after the date of passage,
and an ordinance or amendment becomes law when the ordinance or a summary of
the ordinance is published, but not sooner than 14 days after the date of
passage, unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or
amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[3])
   “All of the members of the Council” refers to all of the seats of the
Council including a vacant seat and a seat where the member is absent, but does
not include a seat where the Council member declines to vote by reason of a
conflict of interest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.1[a])
17.04   COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   Procedures for giving notice of meetings of the Council and other provisions
regarding the conduct of Council meetings are contained in Section
5.06 of this Code of Ordinances. Additional particulars relating to Council
meetings are the following:
   1.   Regular Meetings. The regular meetings of the Council are held on the
second Monday of each month at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers at City Hall.
If such day falls on a legal holiday, the meeting is held on the following day
at the same time unless a different day or time is determined by the Council.
All bills or claims presented to the City for payment shall be acted upon at
the first meeting each month.
   2.   Special Meetings. Special meetings shall be held upon call of the Mayor
or upon the request of a majority of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
   3.   Quorum. A majority of all Council members is a quorum.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[1])
   4.   Rules of Procedure. The Council shall determine its own rules and
maintain records of its proceedings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
   5.   Compelling Attendance. Any three members of the Council can compel the
attendance of the absent members at any regular, adjourned, or duly called
meeting, by serving a written notice upon the absent members to attend at once.
17.05   APPOINTMENTS.
   The Council shall appoint the following officials and prescribe their
powers, duties, compensation, and term of office:
   1.   City Clerk/Administrator
   2.   City Attorney
   3.   City Treasurer
   4.   Planning and Zoning Commission
   5.   Housing Official
   6.   Postville Area Fire Protection Commission
17.06   COMPENSATION.
   The salary of each Council member is $50.00 for each meeting of the Council
attended, paid annually.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 18
CITY CLERK
 
18.01 Appointment and Compensation 18.08 Records
18.02 Powers and Duties: General   18.09 Attendance at Meetings
18.03 Publication of Minutes       18.10 Licenses and Permits
18.04 Recording Measures           18.11 Notification of Appointments
18.05 Other Publications           18.12 Elections
18.06 Authentication               18.13 City Seal
18.07 Certification                18.14 City Funds
 
18.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
   The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Clerk to serve at the
discretion of the Council. The Clerk shall receive such compensation as
established by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3])
18.02   POWERS AND DUTIES: GENERAL.
   The Clerk (or, in the Clerk’s absence or inability to act, the Deputy Clerk)
has the powers and duties as provided in this chapter, this Code of Ordinances,
and the law.
18.03   PUBLICATION OF MINUTES.
   Within 15 days following a regular or special meeting of the Council, the
Clerk shall cause the minutes of the proceedings of the Council, including the
total expenditure from each City fund, to be delivered to a newspaper of
general circulation in the City for publication. The publication shall include
a list of all claims allowed and a summary of all receipts and shall show the
gross amount of the claims.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[6])
18.04   RECORDING MEASURES.
   The Clerk shall promptly record each measure considered by the Council and
record a statement with the measure, where applicable, indicating whether the
Mayor signed, vetoed, or took no action on the measure, and whether the measure
was repassed after the Mayor’s veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[1 and 2])
18.05   OTHER PUBLICATIONS.
   The Clerk shall cause to be published all ordinances, enactments,
proceedings, and official notices requiring publication as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3)
   1.   Time. If notice of an election, hearing, or other official action is
required by this Code of Ordinances or law, the notice must be published at
least once, not less than four or more than 20 days before the date of the
election, hearing, or other action, unless otherwise provided by law.
   2.   Manner of Publication. A publication required by this Code of
Ordinances or law must be in a newspaper published at least once weekly and
having general circulation in the City.
18.06   AUTHENTICATION.
   The Clerk shall authenticate all measures except motions with the Clerk’s
signature, certifying the time and manner of publication when required.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[4])
18.07   CERTIFICATION.
   The Clerk shall certify all measures establishing any zoning district,
building lines, or fire limits and a plat showing the district, lines, or
limits to the recorder of the County containing the affected parts of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.11)
18.08   RECORDS.
   The Clerk shall maintain the specified City records in the following manner:
   1.   Ordinances and Codes. Maintain copies of all effective City ordinances
and codes for public use.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[5])
   2.   Custody. Have custody and be responsible for the safekeeping of all
writings or documents in which the City is a party in interest unless otherwise
specifically directed by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   3.   Maintenance. Maintain all City records and documents (or accurate
reproductions) for at least five years except that ordinances, resolutions,
Council proceedings, records, and documents (or accurate reproductions)
relating to the issuance, cancellation, transfer, redemption, or replacement of
public bonds or obligations shall be kept for at least 11 years following the
final maturity of the bonds or obligations. Ordinances, resolutions, Council
proceedings, records, and documents (or accurate reproductions) relating to
real property transactions shall be maintained permanently.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3 and 5])
   4.   Provide Copy. Furnish upon request to any municipal officer a copy of
any record, paper, or public document under the Clerk’s control when it may be
necessary to such officer in the discharge of such officer’s duty; furnish a
copy to any citizen when requested upon payment of the fee set by Council
resolution; under the direction of the Mayor or other authorized officer, affix
the seal of the City to those public documents or instruments that by this Code
of Ordinances are required to be attested by the affixing of the seal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4 and 5] and 380.7[5])
   5.   Filing of Communications. Keep and file all communications and
petitions directed to the Council or to the City generally. The Clerk shall
endorse thereon the action of the Council taken upon matters considered in such
communications and petitions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.09   ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
   The Clerk shall attend all regular and special Council meetings and, at the
direction of the Council, the Clerk shall attend meetings of committees,
boards, and commissions. The Clerk shall record and preserve a correct record
of the proceedings of such meetings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.10   LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   The Clerk shall issue or revoke licenses and permits when authorized by this
Code of Ordinances, and keep a record of licenses and permits issued which
shall show date of issuance, license or permit number, official receipt number,
name of person to whom issued, term of license or permit, and purpose for which
issued.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.11   NOTIFICATION OF APPOINTMENTS.
   The Clerk shall inform all persons appointed by the Mayor or Council to
offices in the City government of their positions and the time at which they
shall assume the duties of their offices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.12   ELECTIONS.
   The Clerk shall perform the duties relating to elections in accordance with
Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa.
18.13   CITY SEAL.
   The City seal is in the custody of the Clerk and shall be attached by the
Clerk to all transcripts, orders, and certificates that it may be necessary or
proper to authenticate. The City seal is circular in form, in the center of
which are the words “IOWA” and around the margin of which are the words “CITY
SEAL” and “POSTVILLE.”
18.14   CITY FUNDS.
   The Clerk shall perform the following duties relating to City funds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Custody of Funds. Be responsible for the safe custody of all funds of
the City in the manner provided by law, and Council direction.
   2.   Record Receipts. Keep an accurate record of all money or securities
received on behalf of the City and specify the date, from whom, and for what
purpose received.
   3.   Record Disbursements. Keep an accurate account of all disbursements,
money, or property, specifying date, to whom, and from what fund paid.
   4.   Special Assessments. Keep a separate account of all money received from
special assessments.
   5.   Debt Service. Keep a register of all bonds outstanding and record all
payments of interest and principal.
   Additionally, unless a separate individual is appointed, the Clerk shall
assume the duties of the City Treasurer as provided in Chapter 19, pursuant to
appointment to the office by the City Council.
CHAPTER 19
CITY TREASURER
 
19.01 Appointment  19.03 Duties of Treasurer
19.02 Compensation
 
19.01   APPOINTMENT.
   The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Treasurer to serve for a
term of two year(s).
19.02   COMPENSATION.
   The Treasurer is paid such compensation as specified by resolution of the
Council.
19.03   DUTIES OF TREASURER.
   The duties of the Treasurer are as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Custody of Funds. Be responsible for the safe custody of all funds of
the City in the manner provided by law and Council direction.
   2.   Record of Fund. Keep the record of each fund separate.
   3.   Record Receipts. Keep an accurate record of all money or securities
received by the Treasurer on behalf of the City and specify the date, from
whom, and for what purpose received.
   4.   Record Disbursements. Keep an accurate account of all disbursements,
money, or property, specifying date, to whom, and from what fund paid.
   5.   Special Assessments. Keep a separate account of all money received by
the Treasurer from special assessments.
   6.   Deposit Funds. Upon receipt of moneys to be held in the Treasurer’s
custody and belonging to the City, deposit the same in depositories selected by
the Council.
   7.   Reconciliation. Reconcile depository statements with the Treasurer’s
books and certify monthly to the Council the balance of cash and investments of
each fund and amounts received and disbursed.
   8.   Debt Service. Keep a register of all bonds outstanding and record all
payments of interest and principal.
   9.   Other Duties. Perform such other duties as specified by the Council by
resolution or ordinance.
   10.   Reconciliation. Reconcile the Clerk’s books and records and certify
monthly to the Council the balance of cash and investments of each fund and
amounts received and disbursed.
CHAPTER 20
CITY ATTORNEY
 
20.01 Appointment and Compensation 20.06 Provide Legal Opinion
20.02 Attorney for City            20.07 Attendance at Council Meetings
20.03 Power of Attorney            20.08 Prepare Documents
20.04 Ordinance Preparation        20.09 Representation of City Employees
20.05 Review and Comment
 
20.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
   The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Attorney to serve at the
discretion of the Council. The City Attorney shall receive such compensation as
established by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.02   ATTORNEY FOR CITY.
   The City Attorney shall act as attorney for the City in all matters
affecting the City’s interest and appear on behalf of the City before any
court, tribunal, commission, or board. The City Attorney shall prosecute or
defend all actions and proceedings when so requested by the Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.03   POWER OF ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney shall sign the name of the City to all appeal bonds and to
all other bonds or papers of any kind that may be essential to the prosecution
of any cause in court, and when so signed the City shall be bound upon the
same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.04   ORDINANCE PREPARATION.
   The City Attorney shall prepare those ordinances that the Council may desire
and direct to be prepared and report to the Council upon all such ordinances
before their final passage by the Council and publication.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.05   REVIEW AND COMMENT.
   The City Attorney shall, upon request, make a report to the Council giving
an opinion on all contracts, documents, resolutions, or ordinances submitted to
or coming under the City Attorney’s notice.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.06   PROVIDE LEGAL OPINION.
   The City Attorney shall give advice or a written legal opinion on City
contracts and all questions of law relating to City matters submitted by the
Mayor, Council, Clerk, City Administrator, or Police Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.07   ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The City Attorney shall attend meetings of the Council at the request of the
Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.08   PREPARE DOCUMENTS.
   The City Attorney shall, upon request, formulate drafts for contracts,
forms, and other writings that may be required for the use of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.09   REPRESENTATION OF CITY EMPLOYEES.
   The City Attorney shall not appear on behalf of any City officer or employee
before any court or tribunal for the purely private benefit of said officer or
employee. The City Attorney shall, however, if directed by the Council, appear
to defend any City officer or employee in any cause of action arising out of or
in the course of the performance of the duties of his or her office or
employment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 670.8)
CHAPTER 22
LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
 
22.01 Public Library                   22.07 Nonresident Use
22.02 Library Trustees                 22.08 Expenditures
22.03 Qualifications of Trustees       22.09 Annual Report
22.04 Organization of the Board        22.10 Injury to Books or Property
22.05 Powers and Duties                22.11 Theft
22.06 Contracting with Other Libraries 22.12 Notice Posted
 
22.01   PUBLIC LIBRARY.
   The public library for the City is known as the Postville Public Library. It
is referred to in this chapter as the Library.
22.02   LIBRARY TRUSTEES.
   The Board of Trustees of the Library, hereinafter referred to as the Board,
consists of six resident members. All resident members are to be appointed by
the Mayor with the approval of the Council. A nonresident member is to be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Allamakee County Board of
Supervisors.
22.03   QUALIFICATIONS OF TRUSTEES.
   ll resident members of the Board shall be bona fide citizens and residents
of the City. The nonresident member of the Board shall be a bona fide citizen
and resident of the unincorporated County. Members shall be over the age of 18
years.
22.04   ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD.
   The organization of the Board shall be as follows:
   1.   Term of Office. All appointments to the Board shall be for six years,
except to fill vacancies. Each term shall commence on July 1. Appointments
shall be made every two years of one-third the total number or as near as
possible, to stagger the terms.
   2.   Vacancies. The position of any resident Trustee shall be vacated if
such member moves permanently from the City. The position of a nonresident
Trustee shall be vacated if such member moves permanently from the County or
into the City. The position of any Trustee shall be deemed vacated if such
member is absent from six consecutive regular meetings of the Board, except in
the case of sickness or temporary absence from the City or County. Vacancies in
the Board shall be filled in the same manner as an original appointment except
that the new Trustee shall fill out the unexpired term for which the
appointment is made.
   3.   Compensation. Trustees shall receive no compensation for their
services.
22.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   1.   Officers. To meet and elect from its members a President, a Secretary,
and such other officers as it deems necessary. The City Treasurer shall serve
as Board Treasurer, but shall not be a member of the Board.
   2.   Physical Plant. To have charge, control, and supervision of the
Library, its appurtenances, fixtures, and rooms containing the same.
   3.   Charge of Affairs. To direct and control all affairs of the Library.
   4.   Hiring of Personnel. To employ a Library Director, and authorize the
Library Director to employ such assistants and employees as may be necessary
for the proper management of the Library, and fix their compensation; provided,
however, prior to such employment, the compensation of the Library Director,
assistants, and employees shall have been fixed and approved by a majority of
the members of the Board voting in favor thereof.
   5.   Removal of Personnel. To remove the Library Director, by a two-thirds
vote of the Board, and provide procedures for the removal of the assistants or
employees for misdemeanor, incompetence, or inattention to duty, subject
however, to the provisions of Chapter 35C of the Code of Iowa.
   6.   Purchases. To select, or authorize the Library Director to select, and
make purchases of books, pamphlets, magazines, periodicals, papers, maps,
journals, other Library materials, furniture, fixtures, stationery, and
supplies for the Library within budgetary limits set by the Board.
   7.   Use by Nonresidents. To authorize the use of the Library by
nonresidents and to fix charges therefor unless a contract for free service
exists.
   8.   Rules and Regulations. To make and adopt, amend, modify, or repeal
rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this Code of Ordinances and the
law, for the care, use, government, and management of the Library and the
business of the Board, fixing and enforcing penalties for violations.
   9.   Budget. To prepare a proposed budget for the purpose of operating and
maintaining the Library and submit the proposal to the Clerk with such details
as required by the Council in accordance with Section 7.05(2) of this Code of
Ordinances.
   10.   Expenditures. To have exclusive control of the expenditure of all
funds allocated for Library purposes by the Council, and of all moneys
available by gift or otherwise for the erection of Library buildings, and of
all other moneys belonging to the Library including fines and rentals collected
under the rules of the Board.
   11.   Gifts. To accept gifts of real property, personal property, or mixed
property, and devises, and bequests, including trust funds; to take the title
to said property in the name of the Library; to execute deeds and bills of sale
for the conveyance of said property; and to expend the funds received by them
from such gifts, for the improvement of the Library.
   12.   Enforce the Performance of Conditions on Gifts. To enforce the
performance of conditions on gifts, donations, devises, and bequests accepted
by the City by action against the Council.
   13.   Record of Proceedings. To keep a record of its proceedings.
   14.   County Historical Association. To have authority to make agreements
with the local County historical association where such exists, and to set
apart the necessary room and to care for such articles as may come into the
possession of the association. The Trustees are further authorized to purchase
necessary receptacles and materials for the preservation and protection of such
articles as are in their judgment of a historical and educational nature and
pay for the same out of funds allocated for Library purposes.
22.06   CONTRACTING WITH OTHER LIBRARIES.
   The Board has power to contract with other libraries in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Contracting. The Board may contract with any other boards of trustees
of free public libraries, with any other city, school corporation, private or
semiprivate organization, institution of higher learning, township, or County,
or with the trustees of any County library district for the use of the Library
by their respective residents.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.5 and Ch. 28E)
   2.   Termination. Such a contract may be terminated at any time by mutual
consent of the contracting parties. It also may be terminated by a majority
vote of the electors represented by either of the contracting parties. Such a
termination proposition shall be submitted to the electors by the governing
body of a contracting party on a written petition of not less than five percent
in number of the electors who voted for governor in the territory of the
contracting party at the last general election. The petition must be presented
to the governing body not less than 40 days before the election. The
proposition may be submitted at any election provided by law which is held in
the territory of the party seeking to terminate the contract.
22.07   NONRESIDENT USE.
   The Board may authorize the use of the Library by persons not residents of
the City or County in any one or more of the following ways:
   1.   Lending. By lending the books or other materials of the Library to
nonresidents on the same terms and conditions as to residents of the City, or
County, or upon payment of a special nonresident Library fee.
   2.   Depository. By establishing depositories of Library books or other
materials to be loaned to nonresidents.
   3.   Bookmobiles. By establishing bookmobiles or a traveling library so that
books or other Library materials may be loaned to nonresidents.
   4.   Branch Library. By establishing branch libraries for lending books or
other Library materials to nonresidents.
22.08   EXPENDITURES.
   All money appropriated by the Council for the operation and maintenance of
the Library shall be set aside in an account for the Library. Expenditures
shall be paid for only on orders of the Board, signed by its President and
Secretary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.20 and 392.5)
22.09   ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Board shall make a report to the Council immediately after the close of
the fiscal year. This report shall contain statements as to the condition of
the Library, the number of books added, the number circulated, the amount of
fines collected, and the amount of money expended in the maintenance of the
Library during the year, together with such further information as may be
required by the Council.
22.10   INJURY TO BOOKS OR PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for a person willfully, maliciously or wantonly to tear,
deface, mutilate, injure or destroy, in whole or in part, any newspaper,
periodical, book, map, pamphlet, chart, picture, or other property belonging to
the Library or reading room.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
22.11   THEFT.
   No person shall take possession or control of property of the Library with
the intent to deprive the Library thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
22.12   NOTICE POSTED.
   There shall be posted in clear public view within the Library notices
informing the public of the following:
   1.   Failure to Return. Failure to return Library materials for two months
or more after the date the person agreed to return the Library materials, or
failure to return Library equipment for one month or more after the date the
person agreed to return the Library equipment, is evidence of intent to deprive
the owner, provided a reasonable attempt, including the mailing by restricted
certified mail of notice that such material or equipment is overdue and
criminal actions will be taken, has been made to reclaim the materials or
equipment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.5)
   2.   Detention and Search. Persons concealing Library materials may be
detained and searched pursuant to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 808.12)
CHAPTER 23
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
 
23.01 Planning and Zoning Commission 23.04 Compensation
23.02 Term of Office                 23.05 Powers and Duties
23.03 Vacancies
 
23.01   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   The City Planning and Zoning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the
Commission, consists of seven members appointed by the Council. The Commission
members shall be residents of the City and shall not hold any elective office
in the City government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6 and 392.1)
23.02   TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of the members of the Commission shall be five years. The
terms of not more than one-third of the members will expire in any one year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.03   VACANCIES.
   If any vacancy exists on the Commission, caused by resignation or otherwise,
a successor for the remainder of the term shall be appointed in the same manner
as the original appointee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.04   COMPENSATION.
All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, except their
actual expenses, which shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
   (Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   1.   Selection of Officers. The Commission shall choose annually at its
first regular meeting one of its members to act as Chairperson and another as
Vice Chairperson, who shall perform all the duties of the Chairperson during
the Chairperson’s absence or disability.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   2.   Adopt Rules and Regulations. The Commission shall adopt such rules and
regulations governing its organization and procedure as it may deem necessary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   3.   Zoning. The Commission shall have and exercise all the powers and
duties and privileges in establishing the City zoning regulations and other
related matters and may from time to time recommend to the Council amendments,
supplements, changes, or modifications, all as provided by Chapter 414 of the
Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6)
   4.   Recommendations on Improvements. The design and proposed location of
public improvements shall be submitted to the Commission for its
recommendations prior to any actions being taken by the City for the
construction or placement of such improvements. Such requirements and
recommendations shall not act as a stay upon action for any such improvement if
the Commission, after 30 days’ written notice requesting such recommendations,
has failed to file the same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   5.   Review and Comment on Plats. All plans, plats, or re-plats of
subdivisions or re-subdivisions of land in the City or adjacent thereto, laid
out in lots or plats with the streets, alleys, or other portions of the same
intended to be dedicated to the public in the City, shall first be submitted to
the Commission and its recommendations obtained before approval by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   6.   Fiscal Responsibilities. The Commission shall have full, complete, and
exclusive authority to expend, for and on behalf of the City, all sums of money
appropriated to it and to use and expend all gifts, donations, or payments that
are received by the City for City planning and zoning purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   7.   Limitation on Entering Contracts. The Commission shall have no power to
contract debts beyond the amount of its original or amended appropriation as
approved by the Council for the present year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   8.   Annual Report. The Commission shall each year make a report to the
Mayor and Council of its proceedings, with a full statement of its receipts and
disbursements and the progress of its work during the preceding fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
CHAPTER 24
SWIMMING POOL, PARKS, AND RECREATION BOARD
 
24.01 Swimming Pool, Parks, and Recreation Board Created 24.04 Reports
24.02 Board Organization                                 24.05 Rules
24.03 Duties of the Board                                24.06 Penalties
 
 
24.01   SWIMMING POOL, PARKS, AND RECREATION BOARD CREATED.
   A Swimming Pool, Parks, and Recreation Board is hereby created to:
   1.   Have jurisdiction over the operation and maintenance of the swimming
pool owned by the City and located in Lull’s Park in the City;
   2.   Advise the Council on the needed facilities to provide open space such
as parks, playgrounds, and community facilities for other forms of recreation;
and
   3.   Plan and oversee City programs and encourage other programs to enhance
the leisure time of the City’s residents of all ages.
24.02   BOARD ORGANIZATION.
   The Board consists of no less than seven members, appointed by the Mayor
with the approval of the Council, for overlapping terms of five years. The
Board shall choose from its membership a Chairperson every two years. Members
shall serve without compensation but may receive reimbursement for expenses
incurred in the performance of their duties. Vacancies shall be filled in the
same manner as the original appointment for the balance of the term.
24.03   DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
   The Board has the following powers and duties:
   1.   Budget. Prepare a proposed budget for the purpose of operating and
maintaining the swimming pool, parks and recreational grounds, and recreation
centers under its charge. Such budget shall be submitted to the Clerk with such
details as required by the Council, in accordance with Section
7.05(2) of this Code of Ordinances.
   2.   Accounting. The Board shall have control of the amount appropriated by
the Council, as well as other monies received by gift, grant or otherwise, for
the swimming pool, parks, and recreation. Expenditures shall be made by the
Clerk as approved by the Board. The Board shall follow the purchasing
procedures established for all City departments by the Council. The City
Treasurer is the Treasurer of the Board. All expenditures by the Board will be
made by warrant-check drawn by the Clerk for invoices submitted and approved by
the Board.
   3.   Personnel. The Board shall cooperate with the Mayor in the allotment of
time of City employees for parks and recreation purposes. The Board shall have
power to employ personnel and direct such employees in their work.
   4.   Concession Stand. The Board has authority to lease under reasonable
rules and requirements the concession stand at the swimming pool for a period
not exceeding one swimming season.
   5.   Recreation Programs. The Board shall make plans for the development and
use of parks and recreation facilities and advise the Council on the needed
facilities to provide for open space such as parks or playgrounds and play
fields, and for community facilities for other forms of recreation and the use
of leisure time by citizens. It shall also plan and oversee City recreation
programs and encourage other programs for leisure time of the City’s residents
of all ages, including needs of the people in the environs of the City.
24.04   REPORTS.
   The Board shall make written reports to the Council of its activities from
time to time as it deems advisable, or upon Council request. Its revenues and
expenditures shall be reported monthly by the Clerk in the manner of other
departmental revenues and expenditures, and a copy shall be provided to each
member of the Board and in the Clerk’s report to the Council.
24.05   RULES.
   The Board has the power to make rules and regulations for the use of the
swimming pool, parks, or other recreational facilities or for the conduct of
recreation programs, subject to the approval of the rules by the Council. The
swimming pool and park rules shall either be posted on the facility or
otherwise publicized in a manner to provide adequate notice to the using public
as may be appropriate. The Board also has the power to make rules regarding the
operation of the Board itself including, but not limited to, an attendance
requirement for Board members.
24.06   PENALTIES.
   Violation of a Board rule which has been either posted or published may be
cause for denial of use of a facility or participation in a program, but such
denial which extends more than five days may be appealed to the Board or to the
Council for a hearing. Additionally, any violation of this chapter or the rules
promulgated by the Board may be considered a municipal infraction consistent
with
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 25
TREE BOARD
 
25.01 Tree Board   25.03 Duties
25.02 Compensation 25.04 Meetings
 
25.01   TREE BOARD.
   There shall be established a Tree Board, which shall consist of seven
members. One member shall be a member of the Council and the other members
shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Council for
overlapping five-year terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as
the original appointment for the balance of the term.
25.02   COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Tree Board shall serve without compensation.
25.03   DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Tree Board to develop an annual written plan for
the care, preservation, trimming, planting, replanting, removal, or disposition
of trees in public areas within the City limits. Such a plan shall be presented
to the Council and, upon its approval, shall constitute the official tree plan
for that year. In addition, when requested by the Council, the Tree Board shall
investigate, report, and make recommendations upon any special tree matter. The
Tree Board will also initiate action to promote Arbor Day in the community
through tree plantings and other action.
25.04   MEETINGS.
   The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and regulations,
and keep minutes of its proceedings. A majority shall be a quorum for the
transaction of business. All meetings of the Tree Board shall comply with the
open meetings law.
CHAPTER 26
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
 
26.01 Appointment and Compensation 26.03 Powers and Duties
26.02 Authority                    26.04 Ex-Officio City Clerk
 
26.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
   The City Administrator is appointed by a majority vote of the entire Council
at a regular meeting of such body. The appointment is made solely on the basis
of administrative qualifications. The City Administrator shall receive
compensation in an amount set by resolution of the Council. The person so
appointed shall hold office at the pleasure of the Council and shall be subject
to removal by a resolution adopted by a majority vote of the entire Council.
26.02   AUTHORITY.
   The Mayor shall have general supervisory authority over the City
Administrator to carry out the policies established by the Council.
26.03   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City Administrator’s powers and duties are as follows:
   1.   To attend all meetings of the Council.
   2.   To advise Mayor and Council on current problems and future needs of the
City and recommend alternative solutions and directions for meeting the needs
of the community.
   3.   To supervise employees responsible for carrying out the policies and
programs of the City.
   4.   To direct and coordinate the implementation of policy made by the
Council.
   5.   To evaluate current City policies and community needs and recommend
alternatives for Mayor and Council consideration.
   6.   To perform other duties as required by law or delegated by the Mayor
and Council that such material and supplies are received and are of the quality
and character called for by the contract.
   7.   To supervise the construction, improvement, repair, maintenance, and
management of all City property, capital improvements and undertakings of the
City, including the making and preservation of all surveys, maps, plans,
drawings, specifications, and estimates for capital improvements.
   8.   To investigate the affairs and conduct of any department, agency,
officer, or employee under the supervision of the City Administrator.
   9.   To provide for and cause records to be kept of the issuance and
revocation of businesses and permits authorized by City law.
   10.   To keep the Council fully advised of the financial and other
conditions of the City and of its future needs.
   11.   To conduct the business affairs of the City and cause accurate records
to be kept by modern and efficient accounting methods.
   12.   To present to the Council monthly written itemized reports.
   13.   To have the capability to work with department heads to apply for
grants.
   14.   To perform other duties as the Mayor and Council may direct.
   15.   To supervise the enforcement of City laws and assure resolutions,
ordinances, laws, and Council directives and operational policies are enforced
and executed or referred to the proper official for compliance.
   16.   To designate one or more City employees to discharge the duties of the
office of City Administrator when the City Administrator is absent from their
position or when the position is vacant. Said designation shall be subject to
Council approval.
26.04   EX-OFFICIO CITY CLERK.
   The City Administrator is ex-officio Clerk and also performs the duties of
Clerk as identified in
Chapter 18 of this Code of Ordinances and by the Code of Iowa, unless those
duties have been delegated by the City Administrator.
CHAPTER 30
POLICE DEPARTMENT
 
30.01 Department Established       30.07 Powers and Duties of Police Chief
30.02 Organization                 30.08 Departmental Rules
30.03 Peace Officer Qualifications 30.09 Summoning Aid
30.04 Required Training            30.10 Taking Weapons
30.05 Compensation                 30.11 Contract Law Enforcement
30.06 Peace Officers Appointed
 
30.01   DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   The Police Department of the City is established to provide for the
preservation of peace and enforcement of law and ordinances within the
corporate limits of the City.
30.02   ORGANIZATION.
   The department consists of the Police Chief and such other law enforcement
officers and personnel, whether full or part time, as may be authorized by the
Council.
30.03   PEACE OFFICER QUALIFICATIONS.
   In no case shall any person be selected or appointed as a law enforcement
officer unless such person meets the minimum qualification standards
established by the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11)
30.04   REQUIRED TRAINING.
   All peace officers shall have received the minimum training required by law
at an approved law enforcement training school within one year of employment.
Peace officers shall also meet the minimum in-service training as required by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11[2])
(501 IAC 3 and 8)
30.05   COMPENSATION.
   Members of the department are designated by rank and receive such
compensation as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
30.06   PEACE OFFICERS APPOINTED.
   The Mayor shall appoint and dismiss the Police Chief subject to the consent
of a majority of the Council. The Mayor shall select, subject to the approval
of the Council, the other members of the department.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
30.07   POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE CHIEF.
   The Police Chief has the following powers and duties subject to the approval
of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   General. Perform all duties required of the Police Chief by law or
ordinance.
   2.   Enforce Laws. Enforce all laws, ordinances, and regulations and bring
all persons committing any offense before the proper court.
   3.   Writs. Execute and return all writs and other processes directed to the
Police Chief.
   4.   Accident Reports. Report all motor vehicle accidents investigated to
the State Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.266)
   5.   Prisoners. Be responsible for the custody of prisoners, including
conveyance to detention facilities as may be required.
   6.   Assist Officials. When requested, provide aid to other City officers,
boards, and commissions in the execution of their official duties.
   7.   Investigations. Provide for such investigation as may be necessary for
the prosecution of any person alleged to have violated any law or ordinance.
   8.   Record of Arrests. Keep a record of all arrests made in the City by
showing whether said arrests were made under provisions of State law or City
ordinance, the offense charged, who made the arrest, and the disposition of the
charge.
   9.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report
as well as such other reports as may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
   10.   Command. Be in command of all officers appointed for police work and
be responsible for the care, maintenance, and use of all vehicles, equipment,
and materials of the department.
30.08   DEPARTMENTAL RULES.
   The Police Chief shall establish such rules, not in conflict with the Code
of Ordinances, and subject to the approval of the Council, as may be necessary
for the operation of the department.
30.09   SUMMONING AID.
   Any peace officer making a legal arrest may orally summon as many persons as
the officer reasonably finds necessary to aid the officer in making the arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.17)
30.10   TAKING WEAPONS.
   Any person who makes an arrest may take from the person arrested all items
that are capable of causing bodily harm which the arrested person may have
within such person’s control, to be disposed of according to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.18)
30.11   CONTRACT LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   In lieu of the appointment of a Police Chief by the Mayor as provided by
Section 30.06, the Council may contract with the County Sheriff or any other
qualified lawful entity to provide law enforcement services within the City and
in such event the Sheriff or such other entity shall have and exercise the
powers and duties of the Police Chief as provided herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 28E.30)
CHAPTER 35
FIRE PROTECTION
35.01   CONTRACT.
   Pursuant to Chapter 28E of the Code of Iowa, the City entered into a
contract agreement for fire protection and prevention within the City on April
13, 2023, with the Postville Area Fire Protection District, with an operative
date of July 1, 2023. Pursuant to the terms of the 28E Agreement, the Mayor is
an automatic member of the Postville Area Fire Protection Commission which
governs the Postville Area Fire Protection District. The Council shall
additionally appoint two additional members from within the City limits of the
City, to the Commission with at least one being a current member of the
Council.
   A copy of the 28E Agreement is on file with the office of the Clerk and with
the Secretary of State.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 28E.12)
CHAPTER 36
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE SPILLS
 
36.01 Purpose                     36.05 Notifications
36.02 Definitions                 36.06 Police Authority
36.03 Cleanup Required            36.07 Liability
36.04 Liability for Cleanup Costs
 
36.01   PURPOSE.
   In order to reduce the danger to the public health, safety, and welfare from
the leaks and spills of hazardous substances, these regulations are promulgated
to establish responsibility for the treatment, removal, and cleanup of
hazardous substance spills within the City limits.
36.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Cleanup” means actions necessary to contain, collect, control,
identify, analyze, clean up, treat, disperse, remove, or dispose of a hazardous
substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[1])
   2.   “Hazardous condition” means any situation involving the actual,
imminent, or probable spillage, leakage, or release of a hazardous substance
onto the land, into a water of the State, or into the atmosphere which creates
an immediate or potential danger to the public health or safety or to the
environment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[4])
   3.   “Hazardous substance” means any substance or mixture of substances that
presents a danger to the public health or safety and includes, but is not
limited to, a substance that is toxic, corrosive, or flammable, or that is an
irritant or that generates pressure through decomposition, heat, or other
means. “Hazardous substance” may include any hazardous waste identified or
listed by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency under the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended by the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, or any toxic pollutant listed under
Section 307 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1,
1977, or any hazardous substance designated under Section 311 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1, 1977, or any hazardous
material designated by the Secretary of Transportation under the Hazardous
Materials Transportation Act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[5])
   4.   “Responsible person” means a person who at any time produces, handles,
stores, uses, transports, refines, or disposes of a hazardous substance, the
release of which creates a hazardous condition, including bailees, carriers,
and any other person in control of a hazardous substance when a hazardous
condition occurs, whether the person owns the hazardous substance or is
operating under a lease, contract, or other agreement with the legal owner of
the hazardous substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[7])
36.03   CLEANUP REQUIRED.
   Whenever a hazardous condition is created by the deposit, injection,
dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of a hazardous substance, so that the
hazardous substance or a constituent of the hazardous substance may enter the
environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including
ground waters, the responsible person shall cause the condition to be remedied
by a cleanup, as defined in the preceding section, as rapidly as feasible to an
acceptable, safe condition. The costs of cleanup shall be borne by the
responsible person. If the responsible person does not cause the cleanup to
begin in a reasonable time in relation to the hazard and circumstances of the
incident, the City may, by an authorized officer, give reasonable notice, based
on the character of the hazardous condition, said notice setting a deadline for
accomplishing the cleanup and stating that the City will proceed to procure
cleanup services and bill the responsible person for all costs associated with
the cleanup if the cleanup is not accomplished within the deadline. In the
event that it is determined that immediate cleanup is necessary as a result of
the present danger to the public health, safety, and welfare, then no notice
shall be required and the City may proceed to procure the cleanup and bill the
responsible person for all costs associated with the cleanup. If the bill for
those services is not paid within 30 days, the City Attorney shall proceed to
obtain payment by all legal means. If the cost of the cleanup is beyond the
capacity of the City to finance it, the authorized officer shall report to the
Council and immediately seek any State or federal funds available for said
cleanup.
36.04   LIABILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS.
   The responsible person shall be strictly liable to the City for all of the
following:
   1.   The reasonable cleanup costs incurred by the City or the agents of the
City as a result of the failure of the responsible person to clean up a
hazardous substance involved in a hazardous condition.
   2.   The reasonable costs incurred by the City or the agents of the City to
evacuate people from the area threatened by a hazardous condition caused by the
person.
   3.   The reasonable damages to the City for the injury to, destruction of,
or loss of City property, including parks and roads, resulting from a hazardous
condition caused by that person, including the costs of assessing the injury,
destruction, or loss.
   4.   The excessive and extraordinary cost incurred by the City or the agents
of the City in responding at and to the scene of a hazardous condition caused
by that person.
36.05   NOTIFICATIONS.
   1.   A person manufacturing, storing, handling, transporting, or disposing
of a hazardous substance shall notify the State Department of Natural Resources
and the City Administrator of the occurrence of a hazardous condition as soon
as possible but not later than six hours after the onset of the hazardous
condition or discovery of the hazardous condition. The City Administrator shall
immediately notify the Department of Natural Resources.
   2.   Any other person who discovers a hazardous condition shall notify the
City Administrator, which shall then notify the Department of Natural
Resources.
36.06   POLICE AUTHORITY.
   If the circumstances reasonably so require, the law enforcement officer or
an authorized representative may:
   1.   Evacuate persons from their homes to areas away from the site of a
hazardous condition, and
   2.   Establish perimeters or other boundaries at or near the site of a
hazardous condition and limit access to cleanup personnel.
   No person shall disobey an order of any law enforcement officer issued under
this section.
36.07   LIABILITY.
   The City shall not be liable to any person for claims of damages, injuries,
or losses resulting from any hazardous condition, unless the City is the
responsible person as defined in Section
36.02(4).
CHAPTER 37
ALARM REGULATION
 
37.01 Definitions                    37.04 Nonliability of City
37.02 Purpose                        37.05 Penalty
37.03 Enforcement and Administration
 
37.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Alarm company” means a business providing among its services alarm
sales, installation, service, monitoring, or billing of alarm users or the
service of receiving on a continuous basis, through trained employees, emerging
signals from alarm systems, and thereafter immediately relaying the message by
live voice to the emergency dispatch center or such other places as directed by
the City.
   2.   “Alarm Review Board” means a two-member committee selected and
appointed by the Mayor, to serve a four-year term. In the event a vacancy shall
occur during the term of any member, the successor shall be appointed for the
unexpired portion of the term in the same manner as the original appointment.
   3.   “Alarm system” means any device used to detect or prevent intrusion,
criminal activity, or other such emergency situation which, when activated,
causes notification to be made directly or indirectly to the Police Department
or Fire Department, or any such device or system designed primarily for the
purpose of giving an audible or visual signal of an attempted intrusion,
criminal activity, fire, or other such emergency. An alarm system, for the
purpose of this chapter, does not include an alarm installed on a motor
vehicle.
   4.   “Alarm system operator” means an alarm or other person using an alarm
system.
   5.   “Alarm user” means the person, firm, partnership, associate,
corporation, company, or organization of any kind in control of any building
who owns, leases, installs, or contracts for or otherwise obtains an alarm
system and thereafter contracts with or hires an alarm company to monitor or
service the alarm device, or who owns or operates an alarm system.
   6.   “Building” means any single-family housing, multi-family dwelling,
apartment, commercial business, school, church, religious facility, structure,
or place within the City.
   7.   “Chief” means the Police Chief, Fire Chief, or designated
representative who is authorized by the Chief to exercise any power or duty
conferred to the Chief under this chapter.
   8.   “Coordinator” means an individual designated to enforce the provisions
of this chapter.
   9.   “False alarm” means any alarm signal that is activated by error or
mistake, system malfunction, malicious misuse, or on purpose when an emergency
situation requiring a response did not exist at or about the time of the
response.
      A.   Error or Mistake. Any action by an alarm user or any action by an
agent or employee of the alarm user or any other person in the building which
results in the activation of the alarm system when no emergency exists, and no
attempt to cancel the alarm by contacting the 911 call center was made.
      B.   System Malfunction. Any unintentional activation of an alarm system
caused by a mechanical malfunction, flaw in the design, installation, or
maintenance of the alarm system. This does not include any activation caused by
extraordinary violent conditions of nature.
      C.   Malicious Misuse. Any intentional activation of an alarm system when
no emergency exists.
   The burden of proving that such an alarm signal was not a false alarm shall
be on the alarm user.
   10.   “Monitoring” means the process by which an alarm company or its
designated alarm answering service receives signals from an alarm system and
relays an alarm dispatch request to the emergency dispatch center, or other
places as directed by the City, for the purpose of summoning police or fire
personnel to the building.
37.02   PURPOSE.
   It is the finding of the Council that false alarms seriously undermine the
morale and safety of Fire and Police Department personnel as well as
unnecessarily expose to danger the citizens of the City who encounter emergency
vehicles responding to false alarms, result in a waste of City resources, and
result in citizens ignoring alarm system signals. The purpose of this chapter
is to provide regulations applicable to alarm systems and to encourage the
effective use of alarm systems. The most significant desired result of this
chapter is to enhance public safety and more efficiently and safely use City
emergency response resources by reducing the number of false alarms received.
37.03   ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION.
   1.   Grace Period After Installation of an Alarm System.
      A.   Upon the installation date of a new or replacement alarm system, a
grace period of 14 calendar days will be allowed for the alarm user and alarm
system operator to become familiar with the operations of the alarm system and
to make corrections to the operation of the alarm system. Service charges for
false alarms shall be waived during the grace period, provided the number of
false alarms during the grace period is not excessive. An excessive number of
false alarms is:
         (1)   Equal to three or more false alarms in one 24-hour period.
         (2)   Equal to six or more false alarms in the first 14 calendar days
since installation of the alarm system.
      B.   The appropriate chief, or chief’s designated representative, may
waive the service charge fee for an excessive number of false alarms during the
grace period, at their discretion, due to extenuating circumstances as
determined on a case-by-case review.
   2.   Excessive False Alarms; Service Charge Fees.
      A.   Because a false alarm for security, intrusion, robbery, and other
non-fire causes usually requires police officers to respond in individual
vehicular units, depending on the type of alarm, and a false alarm for fire
suppression or other firefighting incidents usually requires multiple
firefighters from the Fire Department to respond in multiple and specialized
firefighting equipment, depending on the type of alarm, the City shall assess a
service charge fee to any alarm user that generates an unnecessary number of
false alarm responses during a calendar year as listed below (“false alarm
fee”). The alarm user shall pay the City the assessed false alarm fee within 20
days of the date an invoice is given to the alarm user for any false alarm
created by the alarm user’s alarm system in accordance with the following
schedule:
 
 
The first and second false alarms during a calendar year                $0.00
The third false alarm during a calendar year                            $75.00
The fourth false alarm during a calendar year                           $100.00
The fifth false alarm and each false alarm thereafter during a calendar $150.00
year
 
      B.   After the second false alarm, the alarm user shall receive a written
notice from the Chief. The notice shall require that by a specified date the
alarm user shall have their alarm system inspected by an alarm company and
alarm user shall review operational procedures with the alarm system operator
and any other individuals having access to the use and operation of the alarm
system. Notice or billing from the City to any alarm user shall be deemed to
have been given or rendered on the date such notice or billing is deposited in
the U.S. Mail, first class postage, addressed to the alarm user at the address
shown for the alarm user. The alarm user shall notify the applicable Chief, in
writing, after the inspection by the alarm company has been completed and shall
provide to the Chief a copy of any report of service, repair or inspection of
the alarm system given by the alarm company. Inspection of the alarm system as
required by this subsection does not relieve the alarm user of responsibility
for subsequent false alarms pursuant to the service charge schedule outlined
above.
   3.   Appeal Process for False Alarm Service Charges. An alarm user assessed
a false alarm fee may appeal the false alarm fee in writing to the Alarm Review
Board. The filing of an appeal with the Alarm Review Board stays the assessment
of the false alarm fee until the Board makes a final decision.
      A.   The alarm user shall file a written appeal to the Alarm Review Board
by setting forth the reasons for the appeal within 10 days after receipt of the
false alarm fee invoice. The Board will review relevant information, including
conditions of nature for the date and time of the occurrence of the false
alarm. The Board may reverse the assessment of the false alarm fee only if
there was no false alarm or the false alarm was not contributed to by the act
(s) or omission(s) of the alarm user or the alarm user’s family, pets, guests,
employee(s), or invitees.
      B.   The Alarm Review Board shall notify the alarm user of its decision
within five working days. The decision of the Board is final as to
administrative remedies for the City.
37.04   NONLIABILITY OF CITY.
   The City shall not be liable for any defects in the operation of any alarm
system, for any failure or neglect to respond appropriately upon receipt of an
alarm from such a source, for any failure or neglect of any person in
connection with the installation, operation, disconnection, or removal of
equipment, the transmission of alarm signals, or the relaying of such signals
or messages.
37.05   PENALTY.
   Any alarm user who violates any provision of this chapter not otherwise
covered by this chapter is guilty of a municipal infraction punishable pursuant
to Section
3.03 of this Code of Ordinances. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prohibit the City from establishing a written schedule of civil penalties to be
imposed for certain violations in this chapter so long as such penalties are
less than or within the acceptable range provided for in Section
3.03.
CHAPTER 40
PUBLIC PEACE
 
40.01 Assault            40.04 Failure to Disperse
40.02 Harassment         40.05 Keeping A Disorderly House
40.03 Disorderly Conduct
 
40.01   ASSAULT.
   No person shall, without justification, commit any of the following:
   1.   Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to cause pain or injury to
another or that is intended to result in physical contact that will be
insulting or offensive to another, coupled with the apparent ability to execute
the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[1])
   2.   Threat of Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to place another in
fear of immediate physical contact which will be painful, injurious, insulting,
or offensive, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[2])
   An act described in Subsections 1 and 2 shall not be an assault under the
following circumstances: (i) if the person doing any of the enumerated acts,
and such other person, are voluntary participants in a sport, social or other
activity, not in itself criminal, and such act is a reasonably foreseeable
incident of such sport or activity, and does not create an unreasonable risk of
serious injury or breach of the peace; (ii) if the person doing any of the
enumerated acts is employed by a school district or accredited nonpublic
school, or is an area education agency staff member who provides services to a
school or school district, and intervenes in a fight or physical struggle or
other disruptive situation that takes place in the presence of the employee or
staff member performing employment duties in a school building, on school
grounds, or at an official school function, regardless of the location, whether
the fight or physical struggle or other disruptive situation is between
students or other individuals, if the degree and the force of the intervention
is reasonably necessary to restore order and to protect the safety of those
assembled.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1)
40.02   HARASSMENT.
   No person shall commit harassment.
   1.   A person commits harassment when, with intent to intimidate, annoy, or
alarm another person, the person does any of the following:
      A.   Communicates with another by telephone, telegraph, writing, or via
electronic communication without legitimate purpose and in a manner likely to
cause the other person annoyance or harm.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      B.   Places any simulated explosive or simulated incendiary device in or
near any building, vehicle, airplane, railroad engine or railroad car, or boat
occupied by the other person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      C.   Orders merchandise or services in the name of another, or to be
delivered to another, without such other person’s knowledge or consent.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      D.   Reports or causes to be reported false information to a law
enforcement authority implicating another in some criminal activity, knowing
that the information is false, or reports the alleged occurrence of a criminal
act, knowing the same did not occur.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   2.   A person commits harassment when the person, purposefully and without
legitimate purpose, has personal contact with another person, with the intent
to threaten, intimidate or alarm that other person. As used in this section,
unless the context otherwise requires, “personal contact” means an encounter in
which two or more people are in visual or physical proximity to each other.
“Personal contact” does not require a physical touching or oral communication,
although it may include these types of contacts.
40.03   DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall do any of the following:
   1.   Fighting. Engage in fighting or violent behavior in any public place or
in or near any lawful assembly of persons, provided that participants in
athletic contests may engage in such conduct that is reasonably related to that
sport.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1a])
   2.   Noise. Make loud and raucous noise in the vicinity of any residence or
public building which intentionally or recklessly causes unreasonable distress
to the occupants thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1b])
   3.   Abusive Language. Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening
gesture that the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a
violent reaction by another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1c])
   4.   Disrupt Lawful Assembly. Without lawful authority or color of
authority, disturb any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by conduct
intended to disrupt the meeting or assembly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1d])
   5.   False Report of Catastrophe. By words or action, initiate or circulate
a report or warning of fire, epidemic, or other catastrophe, knowing such
report to be false or such warning to be baseless.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1e])
      A.   For the first violation of this section, the Police Department or
Fire Chief shall issue the violating person and the landlord or owner of the
premises a written warning.
      B.   When a second violation occurs at the same premises within 90 days,
the Police Department or Fire Chief shall issue a written warning to any new
violating person, and the Police Department or Fire Chief shall issue a
municipal infraction citation to any repeat offenders. Also, the Police
Department or Fire Chief shall send a written notification to any landlord or
owner of the premises informing the landlord or owner of the second violation,
and including a warning that a third violation within 180 days will result in a
municipal infraction citation being issued to the landlord or owner of the
premises.
      C.   If a third violation occurs at the same premises within 180 days,
the Police Department or Fire Chief shall issue a municipal infraction citation
to the landlord or owner of the premises. The Police Department may also issue
warnings or citations to a violating person, the same as in the case of a
second offense.
      D.   For each such false report of catastrophe the violating person and
the landlord or owner shall be jointly and severally liable for the costs as
billed by the Fire Department as a nuisance.
   6.   Disrespect of Flag. Knowingly and publicly use the flag of the United
States in such a manner as to show disrespect for the flag as a symbol of the
United States, with the intent or reasonable expectation that such use will
provoke or encourage another to commit trespass or assault. As used in this
subsection:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1f])
      A.   “Deface” means to intentionally mar the external appearance.
      B.   “Defile” means to intentionally make physically unclean.
      C.   “Flag” means a piece of woven cloth or other material designed to be
flown from a pole or mast.
      D.   “Mutilate” means to intentionally cut up or alter so as to make
imperfect.
      E.   “Show disrespect” means to deface, defile, mutilate, or trample.
      F.   “Trample” means to intentionally tread upon or intentionally cause a
machine, vehicle, or animal to tread upon.
   7.   Funeral or Memorial Service. Within 1,000 feet of the building or other
location where a funeral or memorial service is being conducted, or within
1,000 feet of a funeral procession or burial:
      A.   Make loud and raucous noise that causes unreasonable distress to the
persons attending the funeral or memorial service or participating in the
funeral procession.
      B.   Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture that the
person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent reaction
by another.
      C.   Disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial service, funeral
procession, or burial by conduct intended to disturb or disrupt the funeral,
memorial service, funeral procession, or burial.
   This subsection applies to conduct within 60 minutes preceding, during, and
within 60 minutes after a funeral, memorial service, funeral procession, or
burial.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5)
40.04   FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   A peace officer may order the participants in a riot or unlawful assembly or
persons in the immediate vicinity of a riot or unlawful assembly to disperse.
No person within hearing distance of such command shall refuse to obey.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.3)
40.05   KEEPING A DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   No person shall permit or allow to continue, without taking legal steps to
prevent the same, any quarreling, fighting, or loud or disagreeable noises to
the disturbance of the neighborhood or general public upon any premises owned
by the person or in the person’s possession. For the first violation of this
section, the Police Department shall issue the violating person a written
warning. When a second violation occurs at the same premises within 180 days,
the Police Department shall issue a written warning to any new violating
person, and the Police Department shall issue a municipal infraction citation
to any repeat offenders. Also, the Police Department shall send a written
notification to any landlord or owner of the premises informing the landlord or
owner of the second violation, and including a warning that a third violation
within 365 days will result in a municipal infraction citation being issued to
the landlord or owner of the premises. If a third violation occurs at the same
premises within 365 days, the Police Department shall issue a municipal
infraction citation to the landlord or owner of the premises. The Police
Department may also issue warnings or citations to a violating person, the same
as in the case of a second offense.
CHAPTER 41
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
41.01 Distributing Dangerous Substances                  41.09 Antenna and
                                                         Radio Wires
41.02 False Reports to or Communications with Public     41.10 Barbed Wire and
Safety Entities                                          Electric Fences
41.03 Providing False Identification Information         41.11 Discharging
                                                         Weapons
41.04 Refusing to Assist Officer                         41.12 Throwing and
                                                         Shooting
41.05 Harassment of Public Officers and Employees        41.13 Urinating and
                                                         Defecating
41.06 Interference with Official Acts                    41.14 Fireworks
41.07 Removal of an Officer’s Communication or Control 41.15 Drug
Device                                                   Paraphernalia
41.08 Abandoned or Unattended Refrigerators              41.16 Failure to
                                                         Assist
 
41.01   DISTRIBUTING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall distribute samples of any drugs or medicine, or any
corrosive, caustic, poisonous or other injurious substance unless the person
delivers such into the hands of a competent person, or otherwise takes
reasonable precautions that the substance will not be taken by children or
animals from the place where the substance is deposited.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.1)
41.02   FALSE REPORTS TO OR COMMUNICATIONS WITH PUBLIC SAFETY ENTITIES.
   No person shall do any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.6)
   1.   Report or cause to be reported false information to a fire department,
a law enforcement authority, or other public safety entity, knowing that the
information is false, or report the alleged occurrence of a criminal act
knowing the act did not occur.
   2.   Telephone an emergency 911 communications center, knowing that he or
she is not reporting an emergency or otherwise needing emergency information or
assistance.
   3.   Knowingly provide false information to a law enforcement officer who
enters the information on a citation.
41.03   PROVIDING FALSE IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION.
   No person shall knowingly provide false identification information to anyone
known by the person to be a peace officer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, in the performance of any act that is
within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, emergency
medical care provider, or firefighter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1A)
41.04   REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
   Any person who is requested or ordered by any magistrate or peace officer to
render the magistrate or officer assistance in making or attempting to make an
arrest, or to prevent the commission of any criminal act, shall render
assistance as required. No person shall unreasonably and without lawful cause,
refuse or neglect to render assistance when so requested.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.2)
41.05   HARASSMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   No person shall willfully prevent or attempt to prevent any public officer
or employee from performing the officer’s or employee’s duty.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.4)
41.06   INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTS.
   No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct anyone known by the person to
be a peace officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider under Chapter 147A
of the Code of Iowa, medical examiner, or firefighter, whether paid or
volunteer, or a person performing bailiff duties pursuant to Section 602.1303
[4] of the Code of Iowa, in the performance of any act that is within the scope
of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, jailer, emergency medical care
provider, medical examiner, or firefighter, or person performing bailiff
duties, or shall knowingly resist or obstruct the service or execution by any
authorized person of any civil or criminal process or order of any court. The
terms “resist” and “obstruct” as used in this section do not include verbal
harassment unless the verbal harassment is accompanied by a present ability and
apparent intention to execute a verbal threat physically.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1)
41.07   REMOVAL OF AN OFFICER’S COMMUNICATION OR CONTROL DEVICE.
   No person shall knowingly or intentionally remove or attempt to remove a
communication device, or any device used for control from the possession of a
peace officer or correctional officer, when the officer is in the performance
of any act which is within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that
officer and the person knew or should have known the individual to be an
officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.12)
41.08   ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED REFRIGERATORS.
   No person shall abandon or otherwise leave unattended any refrigerator, ice
box, or similar container, with doors that may become locked, outside of
buildings and accessible to children, nor shall any person allow any such
refrigerator, ice box, or similar container, to remain outside of buildings on
premises in the person’s possession or control, abandoned or unattended and so
accessible to children.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.3)
41.09   ANTENNA AND RADIO WIRES.
   It is unlawful for a person to allow antenna wires, antenna supports, radio
wires, or television wires to exist over any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
public way, public ground, or public building without written consent of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.10   BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
   It is unlawful for a person to use barbed wire or electric fences to enclose
land within the City limits without the written consent of the Council unless
such land consists of 10 acres or more and is used as agricultural land.
41.11   DISCHARGING WEAPONS.
   1.   It is unlawful for a person to discharge rifles, shotguns, revolvers,
pistols, guns, or other firearms of any kind within the City limits except by
written consent of the Council.
   2.   No person shall intentionally discharge a firearm in a reckless manner.
41.12   THROWING AND SHOOTING.
   It is unlawful for a person to throw stones, bricks, or missiles of any kind
or to shoot arrows, paintballs, rubber guns, slingshots, air rifles, BB guns,
or other dangerous instruments or toys on or into any street, alley, highway,
sidewalk, public way, public ground, or public building, without written
consent of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.13   URINATING AND DEFECATING.
   It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate onto any sidewalk,
street, alley, or other public way, or onto any public or private building,
including but not limited to the wall, floor, hallway, steps, stairway,
doorway, or window thereof, or onto any public or private land.
41.14   FIREWORKS.
   1.   It is unlawful for any person or entity to use or explode any consumer
fireworks, including first-class consumer fireworks and second-class consumer
fireworks as defined in Section 10A.519(1) of the Code of Iowa, subject to the
following exception:
      A.   Consumer fireworks as described within Iowa Code Sections 727.2 may
be used on July 3, July 4, and December 31, without restriction or other
condition by any person or entity but for the terms and provisions set forth
within Iowa Code Section 727.2(4).
   2.   It is unlawful to use or explode any display fireworks, as defined in
Section 727.2 of the Code of Iowa, subject to the following exceptions:
      A.   Display fireworks may be used or exploded without a permit at any
incorporated county fair or any district fair receiving State aid.
      B.   Display fireworks may be used or exploded by a City agency or
department, a fair association, an amusement park, or other organization, group
of individuals, or individual, upon the receipt of an application in writing
and the approval of same by the City Council which shall include a finding that
the person/entity responsible for the use of display fireworks is a competent
operator. No permit shall be granted hereunder unless the competent operator or
sponsoring person or entity has filed evidence of insurance with the City, with
the following minimum limits.
         (1)   Personal Injury:   $250,000.00 per person
         (2)   Property Damage:   $50,000.00
         (3)   Total Exposure:   $1,000,000.00
      C.   Display fireworks as described within Iowa Code Sections 727.2 may
be used on July 3, July 4, and December 31, without restriction or other
condition by any person or entity but for the terms and provisions set forth
within Iowa Code Section 727.2(4).
(Section 41.14 – Ord. 704-25 – Jun. 25 Supp.)
41.15   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 124.414)
   1.   As used in this section “drug paraphernalia” means all equipment,
products or materials of any kind used or attempted to be used in combination
with a controlled substance, except those items used in combination with the
lawful use of a controlled substance, to knowingly or intentionally and
primarily do any of the following:
      A.   Manufacture a controlled substance.
      B.   Inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance.
      C.   Test the strength, effectiveness, or purity of a controlled
substance.
      D.   Enhance the effect of a controlled substance.
   Drug paraphernalia does not include hypodermic needles or syringes if
manufactured, delivered, sold, or possessed for a lawful purpose.
   2.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally
manufacture, deliver, sell, or possess drug paraphernalia.
41.16   FAILURE TO ASSIST.
   A person who reasonably believes another person is suffering from a risk of
serious bodily injury or imminent danger of death shall, if the person is able,
attempt to contact local law enforcement or local emergency response
authorities, if doing so does not place the person or other person at risk of
serious bodily injury or imminent danger of death. No person shall without
lawful cause violate the provisions of this section. A person shall not be
required to contact local law enforcement or emergency response authorities if
the person knows or reasonably believes that the other person is not in need of
help or assistance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.12)
CHAPTER 42
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
 
42.01 Trespassing                       42.05 Fraud
42.02 Criminal Mischief                 42.06 Theft
42.03 Defacing Proclamations or Notices 42.07 Other Public Property Offenses
42.04 Unauthorized Entry
 
42.01   TRESPASSING.
   1.   Prohibited. It is unlawful for a person to knowingly trespass upon the
property of another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.8)
   2.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[1])
      A.   “Property” includes any land, dwelling, building, conveyance,
vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure, whether publicly or
privately owned.
      B.   “Public utility” is a public utility as defined in Section 476.1 of
the Code of Iowa or an electric transmission line as provided in Chapter 478 of
the Code of Iowa.
      C.   “Public utility property” means any land, dwelling, building,
conveyance, vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure owned, leased,
or operated by a public utility and that is completely enclosed by a physical
barrier of any kind.
      D.   “Railway corporation” means a corporation, company, or person
owning, leasing, or operating any railroad in whole or in part within this
State.
      E.   “Railway property” means all tangible real and personal property
owned, leased, or operated by a railway corporation, with the exception of any
administrative building or offices of the railway corporation.
      F.   “Trespass” means one or more of the following acts:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2a])
         (1)   Entering upon or in property without the express permission of
the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession with the intent to commit a
public offense or to use, remove therefrom, alter, damage, harass, or place
thereon or therein anything animate or inanimate.
         (2)   Entering or remaining upon or in property without justification
after being notified or requested to abstain from entering or to remove or
vacate therefrom by the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or the
agent or employee of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or by
any peace officer, magistrate, or public employee whose duty it is to supervise
the use or maintenance of the property.
         (3)   Entering upon or in property for the purpose or with the effect
of unduly interfering with the lawful use of the property by others.
         (4)   Being upon or in property and wrongfully using, removing
therefrom, altering, damaging, harassing, or placing thereon or therein
anything animate or inanimate, without the implied or actual permission of the
owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession.
         (5)   Entering or remaining upon or in railway property without lawful
authority or without the consent of the railway corporation which owns, leases,
or operates the railway property. This paragraph does not apply to passage over
a railroad right-of-way, other than a track, railroad roadbed, viaduct, bridge,
trestle, or railroad yard, by an unarmed person if the person has not been
notified or requested to abstain from entering onto the right-of-way or to
vacate the right-of-way and the passage over the right-of-way does not
interfere with the operation of the railroad.
         (6)   Entering or remaining upon or in public utility property without
lawful authority or without the consent of the public utility that owns,
leases, or operates the public utility property. This paragraph does not apply
to passage over public utility right-of-way by a person if the person has not
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering onto the right-of-way or to vacate the right-of-way.
   3.   Specific Exceptions. “Trespass” does not mean either of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2b])
      A.   Entering upon the property of another for the sole purpose of
retrieving personal property which has accidentally or inadvertently been
thrown, fallen, strayed, or blown onto the property of another, provided that
the person retrieving the property takes the most direct and accessible route
to and from the property to be retrieved, quits the property as quickly as is
possible, and does not unduly interfere with the lawful use of the property.
This paragraph does not apply to public utility property where the person has
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering.
      B.   Entering upon the right-of-way of a public road or highway.
42.02   CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   It is unlawful, for any person who has no right to do so, to intentionally
damage, deface, alter, or destroy property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.03   DEFACING PROCLAMATIONS OR NOTICES.
   It is unlawful for a person intentionally to deface, obliterate, tear down,
or destroy in whole or in part, any transcript or extract from or of any law of
the United States or the State, or any proclamation, advertisement, or
notification, set up at any place within the City by authority of the law or by
order of any court, during the time for which the same is to remain set up.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.04   UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.
   No unauthorized person shall enter or remain in or upon any public building,
premises, or grounds in violation of any notice posted thereon or when said
building, premises or grounds are closed and not open to the public. When open
to the public, a failure to pay any required admission fee also constitutes an
unauthorized entry.
42.05   FRAUD.
   It is unlawful for any person to commit a fraudulent practice as defined in
Section 714.8 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.8)
42.06   THEFT.
   It is unlawful for any person to commit theft as defined in Section 714.1 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
42.07   OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES.
   The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other activities or conditions that are also deemed
to be public property offenses:
   1.   Chapter 22 – Library
      A.   Section
22.10 – Injury to Books or Property
      B.   Section
22.11 – Theft of Library Property
   2.   Chapter 107 – Solid Waste Control and Recycling
      A.   Section
107.07 – Littering Prohibited
   3.   Chapter 135 – Street Use and Maintenance
      A.   Section
135.01 – Removal of Warning Devices
      B.   Section
135.02 – Obstructing or Defacing
      C.   Section
135.03 – Placing Debris On
      D.   Section
135.04 – Playing In
      E.   Section
135.05 – Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley
      F.   Section
135.08 – Burning Prohibited
      G.   Section
135.12 – Dumping of Snow
   4.   Chapter 136 – Sidewalk Regulations
      A.   Section
136.13 – Interference with Sidewalk Improvements
      B.   Section
136.17 – Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
      C.   Section
136.18 – Engraving in Sidewalk or Writing on Sidewalk
      D.   Section
136.19 – Debris on Sidewalks
      E.   Section
136.20 – Merchandise Display
      F.   Section
136.21 – Sales Stands
CHAPTER 43
FIREARM AND WEAPON DISPLAY FREE ZONES
 
43.01 Purpose 43.02 Definitions
 
43.01   PURPOSE.
   Municipal buildings and municipal park structures owned, leased, or occupied
by the City are declared to be firearm/dangerous weapon display free zones when
arrangements, consistent with Section 724.28(4) of the Code of Iowa, as
amended, have been implemented for the municipal building or municipal park
structure. Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful for any person
to openly carry or display any dangerous weapon or firearm within any municipal
building or park structure when arrangements under Section 724.28(4) of the
Code of Iowa, as amended are in place. Persons on active duty as a peace
officer, private security officer, member of the Armed Forces of the United
States or the National Guard, a person in the service of the United States,
Correctional Officer serving in an institution under authority of the Iowa
Department of Corrections are exempt from this chapter, and may do so in
municipal building or municipal park structure provided that the weapon is
concealed.
43.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Firearm” means any device or instrument designed to propel, or used in
the propulsion of any bullet, shot, pellet, slug, BB, dart, or other projectile
by the action of an explosive, or by mechanical or electrical means, within or
connected to the device or instrument. The term includes pistols, revolvers,
derringers, handguns, pellet guns, rifles, shotguns, muskets, or other devices
which can expel or may be readily converted to expel any form of projectile so
as to strike an object or person.
   2.   “Municipal building” means any structure, dwelling, garage, or shelter
owned, leased, or otherwise occupied by the City and used for any municipal or
public purposes by the City.
   3.   “Municipal park structure” means any physical structure located in a
municipal park and used for any municipal or public purpose by the City or the
general public.
   4.   “Dangerous weapon” means and includes all weapons as defined or
described in Section 702.7 of the Code of Iowa, as amended.
CHAPTER 44
RADIO AND TELEVISION INTERFERENCE
 
44.01 Definitions 44.04 Complaints
44.02 Scope       44.05 Complaint Procedure
44.03 Exceptions
 
44.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Electrical devices” includes all types of electrical appliances,
electric motors, electrical wiring, electrical machines, radio transmitters,
and radio and television receivers.
   2.   “Receivers of good engineering design” means radio and television
receivers that are free from radiation (oscillations), that are selective
enough to separate the stations desired, that are properly shielded and
filtered, and that are without design or constructional imperfections.
44.02   SCOPE.
   Operation or use by any person, within the corporate limits of the City, of
any electrical device that causes interference with radio or television
reception is prohibited, provided that the radio or television receiver
interfered with is of good engineering design and that the interfering
electrical device is capable of interference elimination by reasonable repairs,
adjustment, or alterations.
44.03   EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to electrical and radio devices licensed,
approved, and operated under the rules and regulations of the Federal
Communications Commission.
44.04   COMPLAINTS.
   It is the duty of the Clerk or Administrator or any authorized
representatives to investigate all complaints of interference with radio and
television reception, to attempt to determine the sources of such interference
and to inspect all interfering electrical devices. The Clerk or Administrator
shall issue to the owners of electrical devices causing interference a written
order requiring such owners to make reasonable repairs, adjustments, or
alterations necessary to eliminate the complaint of interference. If such
written orders are not complied with by the owners of interfering electrical
devices within seven days after issuance thereof, the failure to comply shall
constitute a violation of this chapter. The Clerk or Administrator or
authorized representative, in the discharge of duties under the provisions of
this chapter, shall have the right to access any building or premises, at any
reasonable time. It is unlawful for any person to hinder or interfere with the
Clerk or Administrator or such authorized representative in the discharge of
such duties as provided herein.
44.05   COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   Complaints regarding radio and television reception interference shall be
made by the owner of such receiver to the Clerk or Administrator in writing.
The complaint shall include the name and address of the complainant, a
statement that the owner’s receiver is of good engineering design, the nature
of interference, a request for inspection by the Clerk or Administrator, and
the times when the receiver will be available for inspection.
CHAPTER 45
ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION AND INTOXICATION
 
45.01 Persons Under Legal Age 45.03 Open Containers in Motor Vehicles
45.02 Public Consumption or
Intoxication
 
45.01   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
   As used in this section, “legal age” means 21 years of age or more.  
   1.   A person or persons under legal age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase, consume, or individually or jointly have alcoholic beverages in their
possession or control; except in the case of any alcoholic beverage given or
dispensed to a person under legal age within a private home and with the
knowledge, presence, and consent of the parent or guardian, for beverage or
medicinal purposes or as administered to the person by either a physician or
dentist for medicinal purposes and except to the extent that a person under
legal age may handle alcoholic beverages during the regular course of the
person’s employment by a retail alcohol licensee, or wine or beer permittee
under State laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47[3])
   2.   A person under legal age shall not misrepresent the person’s age for
the purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic beverage from
any retail alcohol licensee or wine or beer permittee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[3])
45.02   PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OR INTOXICATION.
   1.   As used in this section unless the context otherwise requires:
      A.   “Arrest” means the same as defined in Section 804.5 of the Code of
Iowa and includes taking into custody pursuant to Section 232.19 of the Code of
Iowa.
      B.   “Chemical test” means a test of a person’s blood, breath, or urine
to determine the percentage of alcohol present by a qualified person using
devices and methods approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
      C.   “Peace officer” means the same as defined in Section 801.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
      D.   “School” means a public or private school or that portion of a
public or private school that provides teaching for any grade from kindergarten
through grade twelve.
   2.   A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer upon
the public streets or highways. A person shall not use or consume alcoholic
liquor in any public place, except premises covered by a retail alcohol
license. A person shall not possess or consume alcoholic liquors, wine, or beer
on public school property or while attending any public or private school-
related function. A person shall not be intoxicated in a public place.
   3.   A person shall not simulate intoxication in a public place.
   4.   When a peace officer arrests a person on a charge of public
intoxication under this section, the peace officer shall inform the person that
the person may have a chemical test administered at the person’s own expense.
If a device approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety for testing a sample
of a person’s breath to determine the person’s blood alcohol concentration is
available, that is the only test that need be offered the person arrested. In a
prosecution for public intoxication, evidence of the results of a chemical test
performed under this subsection is admissible upon proof of a proper
foundation. The percentage of alcohol present in a person’s blood, breath, or
urine established by the results of a chemical test performed within two hours
after the person’s arrest on a charge of public intoxication is presumed to be
the percentage of alcohol present at the time of arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.46)
45.03   OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   [See Section
62.01(50) and (51) of this Code of Ordinances.]
CHAPTER 46
MINORS
 
46.01 Purpose            46.05 Responsibility of Adults; Nonliability of City
46.02 Definitions        46.06 Enforcement Procedures
46.03 Curfew Established 46.07 Penalty
46.04 Exceptions
 
46.01   PURPOSE.
   A curfew for minors is necessary to promote the public health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the residents of the City, and is enacted to
achieve the following purposes:
   1.   Reinforce the primary authority and responsibility of adults
responsible for minors;
   2.   Protect the public from illegal acts committed by minors; and
   3.   Protect minors from improper influences and criminal activity more
prevalent at certain hours.
46.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Emergency errand” means, but is not limited to, an errand relating to
a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any other situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious illness, bodily injury, or loss
of life.
   2.   “Knowingly” means knowledge which a responsible adult should reasonably
be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that responsible
adult’s custody. It is intended to continue to hold the neglectful or careless
adult responsible for a minor to a reasonable community standard of adult
responsibility through an objective test. It shall, therefore, be no defense
that an adult responsible for a minor was completely indifferent to the
activities or conduct or whereabouts of the minor.
   3.   “Minor” means any unemancipated person under the age of 18 years.
   4.   “Nonsecured custody” means custody in an unlocked area, such as a
lobby, office, or interrogation room which is not designed, set aside, or used
as a secured detention area, and the person arrested is not physically secured
during the period of custody in the area; the person is physically accompanied
by a peace officer or person employed by the facility where the person arrested
is being held; and the use of the area is limited to providing nonsecure
custody only while awaiting transfer to an appropriate juvenile facility or to
court, for contacting of and release of the person’s parents, or other
responsible adult, or for other administrative purposes; but not for longer
than six hours without the oral or written order of a judge or magistrate
authorizing the detention.
   5.   “Public place” means the City square, shopping centers, parking lots,
parks, playgrounds, streets, alleys, sidewalks, dedicated to public use; and
shall also include such parts of buildings and other premises whether publicly
or privately owned which are used by the general public or to which the general
public is permitted without specific invitation, or to which the general public
has access.
   6.   “Responsible adult” means a parent, guardian, or other adult
specifically authorized by law, or authorized by a parent or guardian to have
custody or control of a minor.
   7.   “Unemancipated” means unmarried and still under custody or control of a
responsible adult.
46.03   CURFEW ESTABLISHED.
   1.   No minor 14 years of age or younger shall be in any public place during
the following times:
      A.   September 1 through May 31:
         (1)   Sunday through Thursday 10:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m.
         (2)   Friday and Saturday 12:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m.
      B.   June 1 through August 31:
         (1)   Sunday through Thursday 11:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m.
         (2)   Friday and Saturday 12:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m.
   2.   No minor 15 through 17 years of age shall be in any public place during
the following times:
      A.   September l through May 31:
         (1)   Sunday and Thursday 11:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m.
         (2)   Friday and Saturday 1:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m.
      B.   June 1 through August 31:
         (1)   Sunday through Thursday 12:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m.
         (2)   Friday and Saturday 1:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m.
46.04   EXCEPTIONS.
   The following are exceptions to the curfews established above:
   1.   The minor is accompanied by a responsible adult.
   2.   When the minor is on the sidewalk or property where the minor resides,
or on either side of the place where the minor resides and the adult
responsible for the minor has given permission for the minor to be there.
   3.   The minor is present or is travelling between home and one of the
following:
      A.   Minor’s place of employment, trade, or occupation, in which the
minor is permitted by law to be engaged; or, if traveling, within one hour
after the end of work.
      B.   Minor’s place of religious activity; or, if traveling, within one
hour after the end of the religious activity.
      C.   Governmental or political activity; or, if traveling, within one
hour after the end of the activity.
      D.   School activity; or, if traveling, within one hour after the
activity.
      E.   Assembly such as a march, protest, demonstration, sit-in, or meeting
of an association for advancement of economic, political, religious, or
cultural matters; or for any other activity protected by the First Amendment of
the U.S. Constitution guarantees of free exercise of religion, freedom of
speech, and freedom of assembly or if traveling, within one hour after the end
of the activity.
      F.   The minor is on an emergency errand for a responsible adult.
46.05   RESPONSIBILITY OF ADULTS; NONLIABILITY OF CITY.
   It is unlawful for a responsible adult knowingly to permit or allow a minor
to be in any public place in the City within the time periods prohibited by
this chapter, unless the minor’s presence falls within one of the exceptions
set forth herein.
46.06   ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   1.   Determination of Age. In determining the age of the juvenile and in the
absence of convincing evidence such as birth certificate or driver’s license, a
peace officer shall, in the first instance, use their best judgment in
determining age.
   2.   Grounds for Arrest. The following shall constitute grounds for arrest:
      A.   Refusal to sign the citation without qualification;
      B.   Two or more violations of the curfew ordinance;
      C.   Refusal to provide proper identification;
      D.   An individual engaged in action that constitutes an immediate threat
to the person’s own safety or the safety of the public.
   3.   Conditions of Custody. A law enforcement officer who arrests a minor
for a curfew violation may keep the minor in custody either in a shelter care
facility or in any nonsecured setting. The officer shall not place bodily
restraints, such as handcuffs, on the minor unless the minor physically resists
or threatens physical violence when being taken into custody. A minor shall not
be placed in detention following a curfew violation.
   4.   Notification of Responsible Adult. After a minor is taken into custody,
the law enforcement officer shall notify the adult responsible for the minor as
soon as possible. The minor shall be released to the adult responsible for the
minor upon the promise of such persons to produce the child in court at such
time as the court may direct.
   5.   Minor Without Adult Supervision. If a peace officer determines that a
minor does not have adult supervision because the peace officer cannot locate
the minor’s parent, guardian, or other person legally responsible for the care
of the minor within a reasonable period of time, the peace officer shall
attempt to place the minor with an adult relative of the minor, an adult person
who cares for the child, or another adult person who is known to the child.
46.07   PENALTY.
   1.   Responsible Adult’s First Violation-Warning. In the case of a first
violation by a minor, the Police Department shall send the adult responsible
for the minor a written notice of the violation by certified mail, with a
warning that any subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of the
curfew ordinance against both the responsible adult and minor.
   2.   Responsible Adult’s Second Violation-Civil Infraction. Any responsible
adult as defined in this chapter who, following receipt of a warning, knowingly
allows the minor to violate any of the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a civil infraction, and upon conviction, shall be punished by a civil
penalty not to exceed $65.00 plus applicable court costs.
   3.   Minor’s First Violation-Warning. In the case of a first violation by a
minor, the police shall give the minor a written warning, which states that any
subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of the curfew ordinance
against the responsible adult and the minor.
   4.   Minor’s Second and Subsequent Violations-Civil Infraction. For the
minor’s second violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, the minor
shall be guilty of a civil infraction. Upon conviction, the minor shall be
punished by a civil penalty not to exceed $65.00 plus applicable court costs.
For each subsequent violation after the minor’s second offense, the civil
penalty shall increase by $10.00 for each subsequent offense.
CHAPTER 47
PARK REGULATIONS
 
47.01 Purpose                47.05 Parks Closed
47.02 Use of Drives Required 47.06 Camping
47.03 Fires                  47.07 Parking
47.04 Littering
 
47.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the enjoyment of park
facilities by the general public by establishing rules and regulations
governing the use of park facilities.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12)
47.02   USE OF DRIVES REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive any car, cycle, or other vehicle, or ride or lead any
horse, in any portion of a park except upon the established drives or roadways
therein or such other places as may be officially designated by the City.
47.03   FIRES.
   No fire shall be built, except in a place designated for such purpose, and
such fire shall be extinguished before leaving the area unless it is to be
immediately used by some other party.
47.04   LITTERING.
   No person shall place, deposit, or throw any waste, refuse, litter, or
foreign substance in any area or receptacle except those provided for that
purpose.
47.05   PARKS CLOSED.
   The hours of Lull’s Park, Meyer’s Park, Robert’s Park, and Big Four
Fairgrounds shall be set by resolution of the Council. No person shall enter or
be in any said park during the hours the park is closed, provided that a person
may camp in any said park overnight if permission is granted by the Mayor.
47.06   CAMPING.
   No person shall camp in any portion of a park except in portions prescribed
or designated by the Council, and the City may refuse camping privileges or
rescind any and all camping privileges for cause.
47.07   PARKING.
   No person shall park any vehicle except in designated parking areas.
CHAPTER 50
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
 
50.01 Definition of Nuisance 50.05 Nuisances Prohibited
50.02 Nuisances Enumerated   50.06 Nuisance Abatement
50.03 Adult Establishments   50.07 Abatement of Nuisance by Written Notice
50.04 Other Conditions       50.08 Municipal Infraction Abatement Procedure
 
50.01   DEFINITION OF NUISANCE.
   Whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or unreasonably offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is a
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.1)
50.02   NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions that are
deemed to be nuisances in the City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.2)
   1.   Offensive Smells. Erecting, continuing, or using any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture that, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, unreasonably offensive smells, or other
annoyances, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort, or property
of individuals or the public.
   2.   Filth or Noisome Substance. Causing or suffering any offal, filth, or
noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place to the prejudice of
others.
   3.   Impeding Passage of Navigable River. Obstructing or impeding without
legal authority the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or collection of
water.
   4.   Water Pollution. Corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the
water of any river, stream, or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from its
natural course or state, to the injury or prejudice of others.
   5.   Blocking Public and Private Ways. Obstructing or encumbering, by
fences, buildings or otherwise, the public roads, private ways, streets,
alleys, commons, landing places, or burying grounds.
   6.   Billboards. Billboards, signboards, and advertising signs, whether
erected and constructed on public or private property, that so obstruct and
impair the view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway,
boulevard, or alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render
dangerous the use thereof. (See also Section
62.06) 
   7.   Storing of Flammable Junk. Depositing or storing of flammable junk,
such as old rags, rope, cordage, rubber, bones and paper, by dealers in such
articles within the fire limits of the City, unless in a building of fireproof
construction. (See also
Chapter 51) 
   8.   Air Pollution. Emission of dense smoke, noxious fumes, or fly ash.
   9.   Weeds, Brush. Dense growth of all weeds, vines, brush, or other
vegetation in the City so as to constitute a health, safety, or fire hazard.
   10.   Dutch Elm Disease. Trees infected with Dutch elm disease. (See also
Chapter 151)
   11.   Airport Air Space. Any object or structure hereafter erected within
1,000 feet of the limits of any municipal or regularly established airport or
landing place, which may endanger or obstruct aerial navigation including take-
off and landing, unless such object or structure constitutes a proper use or
enjoyment of the land on which the same is located.
   12.   Houses of Ill Fame. Houses of ill fame, kept for the purpose of
prostitution and lewdness; gambling houses; places resorted to by persons
participating in criminal gang activity prohibited by Chapter 723A of the Code
of Iowa or places resorted to by persons using controlled substances, as
defined in Section 124.101 of the Code of Iowa, in violation of law, or houses
where drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, or breaches of the peace are carried
on or permitted to the disturbance of others.
   13.   Furniture and Machinery. Furniture, household furnishings, appliances,
or other items not designed for outside use, and machinery, implements, or
other such equipment which is in an inoperable condition, except antique
machinery or equipment of reasonable size and which is being used as part of
attractive landscaping; all of which has been stored or kept outside on any
premises in a residential area for a period of more than 24 hours. An exception
shall be all such items set out during the week prior to any City-sanctioned
large item pickup program.
   14.   Construction Equipment and Materials. Operable machinery, equipment,
and materials used for construction purposes, including pipes, lumber, forms,
dirt, sand, and sod stored or kept in the open, except:
      A.   Such items used in the ordinary course of business as the inventory
or asset of a contractor, supplier, or government subdivision; or
      B.   Such items located on the site of a project in progress, but only
for a period not to exceed 30 days after construction has been completed.
   15.   Fees and Fines. Failure to pay to the City, when due, any fee or fine
required by this Code of Ordinances.
   16.   Maintaining any violation of the Code of Ordinances.
50.03   ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS.
   1.   As used in this section, “adult establishment” means any business that
provides nude or topless dancing or operates any other adult-oriented business.
   2.   A public safety nuisance exists when it is established by clear and
convincing evidence that an owner, manager, employee, contemporaneous patron,
or guest of an adult establishment commits any of the following acts either on
the premises or in any parking lots or areas, including but not limited to
public rights-of-way, adjacent to the premises:
      A.   Unlawfully discharges a firearm or uses an offensive weapon, as
defined in Section 724.1 of the Code of Iowa, regardless of whether it inflicts
injury or death.
      B.   Assaults another person with a dangerous weapon as defined in
Section 702.7 of the Code of Iowa resulting in injury or death.
      C.   Engages in a riot as defined in Section 723.1 of the Code of Iowa on
three or more dates within a 12-month period to which the police respond and
disperse a crowd. The participants need not be the same persons for each
incident.
   3.   When the City Attorney believes a serious threat to the public safety
exists, the City Attorney or any other attorney on behalf of the City Attorney,
may file a suit in equity in the district court without bond seeking abatement
of the public safety nuisance arising from an adult establishment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.12)
50.04   OTHER CONDITIONS.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other conditions that are deemed to be nuisances:
   1.   Junk and Junk Vehicles (See
Chapter 51)
   2.   Criminal Activity Nuisance (See
Chapter 57)
   3.   Rendering (See
Chapter 104)
   4.   Integrated Rendering Plants (See
Chapter 105)
   5.   Storage and Disposal of Solid Waste (See
Chapter 107)
   6.   Dangerous Buildings (See
Chapter 145)
   7.   Trees and Grass (See
Chapter 151)
   8.   Construction and Repair of Buildings (See
Chapter 155)
50.05   NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited, and a nuisance, public
or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in this chapter or State
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.3)
50.06   NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
Whenever any authorized municipal officer finds that a nuisance exists, such
officer has the authority to determine on a case-by-case basis whether to
utilize the nuisance abatement procedure described in Section
50.07 of this chapter or the municipal infraction procedure referred to in
Section
50.08. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
50.07   ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY WRITTEN NOTICE.
Any nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in
this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   1.   Contents of Notice to Property Owner. The notice to abate shall
contain: † 4
      A.   Description of Nuisance. A description of what constitutes the
nuisance.
      B.   Location of Nuisance. The location of the nuisance.
      C.   Acts Necessary to Abate. A statement of the act or acts necessary to
abate the nuisance.
      D.   Reasonable Time. A reasonable time within which to complete the
abatement.
      E.   Assessment of City Costs. A statement that if the nuisance or
condition is not abated as directed and no request for hearing is made within
the time prescribed, the City will abate it and assess the costs against the
property owner.
   2.   Method of Service. The notice may be in the form of an ordinance or
sent by certified mail to the property owner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   3.   Request for Hearing. Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a
hearing with the Council as to whether a nuisance exists. A request for a
hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the Clerk within the time
stated in the notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that a nuisance
exists and it must be abated as ordered. The hearing will be before the Council
at a time and place fixed by the Council. The findings of the Council shall be
conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered abated
within a reasonable time under the circumstances.
   4.   Abatement in Emergency. If it is determined that an emergency exists by
reason of the continuing maintenance of the nuisance or condition, the City may
perform any action that may be required under this chapter without prior
notice. The City shall assess the costs as provided in Subsection 6 of this
section after notice to the property owner under the applicable provisions of
Subsections 1 and 2, and the hearing as provided in Subsection 3.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   5.   Abatement by City. If the person notified to abate a nuisance or
condition neglects or fails to abate as directed, the City may perform the
required action to abate, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred.
The itemized expense account shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall pay such
expenses on behalf of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   6.   Collection of Costs. The Clerk shall send a statement of the total
expense incurred by certified mail to the property owner who has failed to
abide by the notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has not
been paid within one month, the Clerk shall certify the costs to the County
Treasurer and such costs shall then be collected with, and in the same manner
as, general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   7.   Installment Payment of Cost of Abatement. If the amount expended to
abate the nuisance or condition exceeds $500.00, the City may permit the
assessment to be paid in up to 10 annual installments, to be paid in the same
manner and with the same interest rates provided for assessments against
benefited property under State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.13)
   8.   Failure to Abate. Any person causing or maintaining a nuisance who
shall fail or refuse to abate or remove the same within the reasonable time
required and specified in the notice to abate is in violation of this Code of
Ordinances.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: A suggested form of notice for the abatement of nuisances is
  included in the Appendix of this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use
  of this administrative abatement procedure, particularly where cost of abatement
4 is more than minimal or where there is doubt as to whether or not a nuisance does
  in fact exist. If compliance is not secured following notice and hearings, we
  recommend you review the situation with your attorney before proceeding with
  abatement and assessment of costs. Your attorney may recommend proceedings in
  court under Chapter 657 of the Code of Iowa rather than this procedure.
50.08   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
In lieu of the abatement procedures set forth in Section
50.07, the requirements of this chapter may be enforced under the procedures
applicable to municipal infractions as set forth in
Chapter 3.
CHAPTER 51
JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES
 
51.01 Definitions                       51.04 Exceptions
51.02 Junk and Junk Vehicles Prohibited 51.05 Notice to Abate
51.03 Junk and Junk Vehicles a Nuisance
 
51.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
   1.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other non-
ferrous metal; old or discarded rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste or used lumber, or salvaged wood; dismantled vehicles, machinery,
and appliances or parts of such vehicles, machinery, or appliances; iron,
steel, or other old or scrap ferrous materials; old or discarded glass,
tinware, plastic or old or discarded household goods or hardware. Neatly
stacked firewood located on a side yard or a rear yard is not considered junk.
   2.   “Junk vehicle” means any vehicle legally placed in storage with the
County Treasurer or unlicensed and having any of the following characteristics:
      A.   Broken Glass. Any vehicle with a broken or cracked windshield,
window, headlight or tail light, or any other cracked or broken glass.
      B.   Broken, Loose, or Missing Part. Any vehicle with a broken, loose, or
missing fender, door, bumper, hood, steering wheel, or trunk lid.
      C.   Habitat for Nuisance Animals or Insects. Any vehicle that has become
the habitat for rats, mice, snakes, or any other vermin or insects.
      D.   Flammable Fuel. Any vehicle that contains gasoline or any other
flammable fuel.
      E.   Inoperable. Any motor vehicle that lacks an engine or two or more
wheels or other structural parts, rendering said motor vehicle totally
inoperable, or that cannot be moved under its own power or has not been used as
an operating vehicle for a period of 30 days or more.
      F.   Defective or Obsolete Condition. Any other vehicle that, because of
its defective or obsolete condition, in any other way constitutes a threat to
the public health and safety.
   Mere licensing of such vehicle shall not constitute a defense to the finding
that the vehicle is a junk vehicle.
   3.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which a person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway or street, except devices
moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and
includes without limitation a motor vehicle, automobile, truck, motorcycle,
tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery, or any combination thereof.
51.02   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any person to store, accumulate, or allow to remain on any
private property within the corporate limits of the City any junk or junk
vehicle.
51.03   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES A NUISANCE.
It is hereby declared that any junk or junk vehicle located upon private
property, unless excepted by Section
51.04, constitutes a threat to the health and safety of the citizens and is a
nuisance within the meaning of Section 657.1 of the Code of Iowa. If any junk
or junk vehicle is kept upon private property in violation hereof, the owner of
or person occupying the property upon which it is located shall be prima facie
liable for said violation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
51.04   EXCEPTIONS.
The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any junk or a junk vehicle
stored within:
   1.   Structure. A garage or other enclosed structure; or
   2.   Salvage Yard. An auto salvage yard or junkyard that is lawfully
operated within the City.
51.05   NOTICE TO ABATE.
Upon discovery of any junk or junk vehicle located upon private property in
violation of Section
51.03, the City shall within five days initiate abatement procedures as
outlined in
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
CHAPTER 52
NOISE CONTROL
 
52.01 Scope of Regulations                         52.05 Measurement of Sound
52.02 Definitions                                  52.06 Excluded Sounds
52.03 Maximum Permissible Sound Levels             52.07 Municipal Infraction
52.04 Noise Prohibitions and Limited Sound Sources
 
52.01   SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
This chapter applies to the control of all noise originating within the limits
of the City, except in the following cases:
   1.   A State or federal agency has adopted a different standard or rule than
that prescribed within this chapter which preempts the regulation of noise from
a particular source so as to render this chapter inapplicable, or
   2.   The Council has determined that, by reason of public acceptance of the
activity producing a particular noise or noises, such noise is deemed
acceptable to the residents of the City.
52.02   DEFINITIONS.
Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context clearly indicates a different
intention, the following terms have the following meanings. Definitions of
technical terms used in this chapter which are not herein defined shall be
obtained from publications of acoustical terminology issued by the American
National Standards Institute (ANSI):
   1.   “A-weighted sound level” means the sound pressure level in decibels as
measured on a sound level meter using the A-weighting network. The level so
read is designated dBA.
   2.   “Commercial” or “commercial district” means any property which is zoned
for any commercial use as defined in the Zoning Code, and on which there is no
residential use.
   3.   “Decibels” means a unit for measuring the volume of sound, equal to 20
times the logarithm to the base 10 of the ratio of the pressure of the sound
measured to the reference pressure, which is 20 micropascals (20 micronewtons
per square meter).
   4.   “Exhaust system” means the device or combination of devices that
collects the exhaust from the engine or motor, delivers the exhaust to the
atmosphere, and reduces the noise emissions. “Exhaust system” includes manifold
or headers, exhaust pipe, muffler, and tail pipe.
   5.   “Gross vehicle weight rating” means the value specified by the
manufacturer as the recommended maximum weighted load of a single motor
vehicle. When trailers and tractors are separable, the gross combination weight
rating is the value specified by the manufacturer as the recommended maximum
loaded weight of the combined vehicle.
   6.   “Industrial” or “industrial district” means any property zoned for any
industrial use as defined in the Zoning Code, and on which there is no
commercial use or residential use.
   7.   “Motor vehicle” means every vehicle which is self-propelled.
   8.   “Noise disturbance” means any transmission of sound across a real
property boundary from a source specifically limited by this chapter, which
exceeds the sound level limits set forth in Section 52.03, Maximum Permissible
Sound Levels.
   9.   “Real property boundary” means an imaginary line along the ground
surface, and its vertical extension, which separates the real property owned by
one person from that owned by another person, but not including intra-building
real property divisions.
   10.   “Receiving land use” means the use or occupancy of the property which
receives the transmission of sound.
   11.   “Residential” or “residential district” means any property on which is
located a building or structure used wholly or partially for living or sleeping
purposes. This definition does not include park custodial residences or school
or college dormitories.
   12.   “Sound” means an oscillation in pressure, particle displacement,
particle velocity or other physical parameter, in a medium with internal forces
which cause compression and rarefaction of that medium. The description of
sound may include any characteristic of sound, including duration, density, and
frequency.
   13.   “Sound level” means the weighted sound pressure level contained by the
use of the sound level meter and A-weighting network, such as a, b, or c as
specified in American National Standards Institute Specification for Sound
Level Meters, ANSI S1, 4-1971. If the frequency weighting employed is not
indicated, the A-weighting shall apply.
   14.   “Sound level meter” means an instrument used to measure sound
pressure.
   15.   “Sound pressure” means the instantaneous difference between the actual
pressure and the average or barometric pressure at a given point in space, as
produced by sound energy.
   16.   “Sound pressure level” means 20 times the logarithm to the base 10 of
the ratio of the root mean squared sound pressure to the reference pressure of
20 micropascals.
   17.   “Used” or “occupied,” where either word appears, shall be deemed to
include the words “intended, designed, or arranged to be used or occupied.”
52.03   MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE SOUND LEVELS.
 
Maximum Permissible Sound Levels from Limited Sources by Receiving Land Use
Zoning Category of Receiving Legal Time              Sound Level Limit (dBa)
Land Use
Residence District           7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. 50
Residence District           10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. 50
Commercial District          At all times            65
Industrial District          At all times            75 (20-83)
 
 
52.04   NOISE PROHIBITIONS AND LIMITED SOUND SOURCES.
The following sound sources are limited by this chapter:
   1.   Radios and Other Devices in Motor Vehicles. No person shall perform,
create, cause, or permit a radio, television set, musical instrument, or any
other device to produce, reproduce, or amplify sound to create a noise in
excess of 50 dBa at 25 feet from such device when operated on a motor vehicle.
   2.   Muffler Cutouts. No person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass, or
similar device on a motor vehicle on a public highway.
   3.   Vehicle Exhaust System. Every motor vehicle shall be at all times
equipped with an exhaust system in good working order and in constant operation
to prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke. (The intent of this
provision is that it is necessary to prevent both noise and smoke, and either
one constitutes a violation.) Noise which is measured at a distance of at least
25 feet from the near side of the nearest lane being monitored at a height of
at least four feet above the immediate surrounding surface as follows is
excessive or unusual noise:
 
                                                                           Speed Speed
                                                                           of 35 Over
Motor Vehicle Designation                                                  MPH   35
                                                                           or    MPH
                                                                           Less
Motor vehicles or a combination of vehicles towed by a motor vehicle with  90    94
a manufacturer’s gross vehicle rating or gross combination weight rating dBa   dBa
of 10,000 pounds or more                                                   or    or
                                                                           more  more
                                                                           80    84
Any other motor vehicle or any combination of vehicles towed by any motor  dBa   dBa
vehicle                                                                    or    or
                                                                           more  more
 
   4.   Animals and Birds. No person shall own, possess, or harbor any animal
or bird which frequently or for continued duration emits sounds native to the
species which are a noise disturbance. Excepted from the provisions of this
subsection are guide dogs for the blind and the deaf.
   5.   Radios, Television, Phonographs, etc. No person shall operate, play, or
permit the operation or playing of any radio, television, phonograph, drum,
musical instrument, sound amplifier, or similar device which produces,
reproduces, or amplifies sound at a sound level which creates a noise
disturbance. Church or clock carillons, bells, or chimes; parades or
processions, provided the conditions of the permit are met; mobile radio or
telephone signal devices; and sanctioned racing events, are all excepted from
the provisions of this subsection.
   6.   Lawn-Mowing Equipment. No person shall use or operate, or permit the
use or operation of, a power lawn mower, power trimmer or other gasoline or
electric powered device intended for mowing or trimming a lawn between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following morning if such use or
operation creates a noise disturbance as defined in this chapter. No person
shall use or operate, or permit the use or operation of, a gasoline-powered
lawn mower which does not have a muffler if such use or operation creates a
noise disturbance as defined in this chapter.
   7.   Chain Saws. No person shall use or operate, or permit the use or
operation of, a power chain saw between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
the following morning if such use or operation creates a noise disturbance as
defined in this chapter.
   8.   Solid Waste Collection or Hauling Equipment. No person shall use or
operate, or permit the use or operation of, any solid waste collection or
hauling equipment between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the following
morning if such use or operation creates a noise disturbance as defined in this
chapter.
Governmental fire department equipment and devices used by emergency vehicles
or by governmental officials or organizations for authorized public purposes
are exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
52.05   MEASUREMENT OF SOUND.
Sound level measurement from limited sound sources, for purposes of this
chapter, shall be measured using a sound level meter at the real property
boundary of the receiving property, or at a point reasonably proximate to the
real property boundary and shall be measured at a height of four feet above the
immediate ground surface.
52.06   EXCLUDED SOUNDS.
Any other provision of Section
52.04 or other section of this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, the
term “noise disturbance,” as used in this chapter, does not mean, or include
the following sounds:
   1.   Lawn and Garden Equipment. The sound emitted by motor-powered muffler-
equipped lawn and garden equipment operated between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m.
   2.   Chain Saws. The sound emitted by motor-powered tree-trimming equipment
operated between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   3.   Snow Removal Equipment. The sound emitted by motor-powered, muffler-
equipped snow removal equipment and City-owned or hired snow removal equipment.
   4.   Emergencies. The sound emitted in the performance of emergency work or
to alert persons to the existence of an emergency.
   5.   Alarms. The sound emitted by the intentional sounding outdoors of any
fire, burglar, or civil defense alarm, siren, whistle or similar stationary
emergency signaling device for emergency purpose or for the essential testing
of such device.
   6.   Church Bells. The sound emitted by church carillons, bells, or chimes.
   7.   Radios. The sound emitted by a motor vehicle radio, tape deck or player
or other such standard equipment used and intended for the use and enjoyment of
such vehicle’s occupants while such vehicle is on the public right-of-way,
provided that the sound emitted therefrom is not audible for more than 300
feet.
   8.   Certain Signaling Devices. The sound emitted by mobile radio or
telephone signaling devices.
   9.   Religious Ceremonies. The sound emitted in conjunction with a religious
celebration.
   10.   Law Enforcement. The sounds made or caused to be made by law
enforcement officials in the performance of their official duties.
   11.   Construction Noise. The sound emitted by construction work (erection,
demolition, excavation, drilling, etc.) between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:
00 p.m., which is being performed pursuant to a proper and current building
permit.
   12.   Mosquito Spraying Equipment. The sound made by the City-owned or hired
mosquito spraying equipment.
   13.   School Activities. The sounds made by students, employees, or the
general public while in attendance at any school sponsored event.
   14.   Fireworks Displays. The sound made during any fireworks display that
has been issued a fireworks permit.
   15.   Parades. The sounds made by participants and observers of any parade
that has been approved and issued a parade permit.
   16.   City Operations. The sound made or caused to be made by City-owned or
hired equipment or facilities for the conduct of City operations.
52.07   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
Any violation of this chapter shall be deemed a municipal infraction.
CHAPTER 55
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND CONTROL
55.01 Definitions                  55.10 Rabies Vaccination
55.02 Animal Neglect               55.11 Owner’s Duty
55.03 Livestock Neglect            55.12 Confinement
55.04 Abandonment of Cats and Dogs 55.13 At Large: Impoundment
55.05 Livestock                    55.14 Disposition of Animals
55.06 At Large Prohibited          55.15 Impounding Costs
55.07 Damage or Interference       55.16 Pet Awards Prohibited
55.08 Annoyance or Disturbance     55.17 Tampering With A Rabies Vaccination
                                   Tag
55.09 Cleaning Defecated Material  55.18 Tampering With An Electronic Handling
                                   Device
 
55.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
   1.   “Advertise” means to present a commercial message in any medium,
including (but not limited to) print, radio, television, sign, display, label,
tag, or articulation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   2.   “Animal” means a nonhuman vertebrate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.1)
   3.   “Animal shelter” means a facility which is used to house or contain
dogs or cats, or both, and which is owned, operated, or maintained by an
incorporated humane society, animal welfare society, society for the prevention
of cruelty to animals, or other nonprofit organization devoted to the welfare,
protection, and humane treatment of such animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
   4.   “At large” means off the premises of the owner and not under the
control of a competent person, restrained within a motor vehicle, or housed in
a veterinary hospital or kennel.
   5.   “Business” means any enterprise relating to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
      A.   The sale or offer for sale of goods or services.
      B.   A recruitment for employment or membership in an organization.
      C.   A solicitation to make an investment.
      D.   An amusement or entertainment activity.
   6.   “Commercial establishment” means an animal shelter, boarding kennel,
commercial breeder, commercial kennel, dealer, pet shop, pound, public auction,
or research facility.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
   7.   “Fair” means any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
      A.   The annual fair and exposition held by the Iowa State Fair Board
pursuant to Chapter 173 of the Code of Iowa or any fair event conducted by a
fair under the provisions of Chapter 174 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   An exhibition of agricultural or manufactured products.
      C.   An event for operation of amusement rides or devices or concession
booths.
   8.   “Game” means a “game of chance” or “game of skill” as defined in
Section 99B.1 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   9.   “Injury” means an animal’s disfigurement; the impairment of an animal’s
health; or an impairment to the functioning of an animal’s limb or organ, or
the loss of an animal’s limb or organ.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
   10.   “Livestock” means an animal belonging to the bovine, caprine, equine,
ovine or porcine species, ostriches, rheas, and emus; farm deer (as defined in
Section 170.1 of the Code of Iowa); or poultry.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.1)
   11.   “Owner” means any person owning, keeping, sheltering, or harboring an
animal.
   12.   “Pet” means a living dog, cat, or an animal normally maintained in a
small tank or cage in or near a residence, including but not limited to a
rabbit, gerbil, hamster, mouse, parrot, canary, mynah, finch, tropical fish,
goldfish, snake, turtle, gecko, or iguana.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   13.   “Pound” means a facility for the prevention of cruelty to animals
operated by the State, a municipal corporation, or other political subdivision
of the State for the purpose of impounding or harboring seized stray, homeless,
abandoned, or unwanted dogs, cats, or other animals; or a facility operated for
such a purpose under a contract with any municipal corporation or incorporated
society.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
   14.   “Research facility” means any school or college of medicine,
veterinary medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, or osteopathic medicine, or hospital,
diagnostic or research laboratories, or other educational or scientific
establishment situated in the State concerned with the investigation of, or
instruction concerning the structure or function of living organisms, the
cause, prevention, control, or cure of diseases or abnormal conditions of human
beings or animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
   15.   “Veterinarian” means a veterinarian licensed pursuant to Chapter 169
of the Code of Iowa who practices veterinary medicine in the State.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
55.02   ANIMAL NEGLECT.
   1.   It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of an animal and
confines that animal to fail to provide the animal with any of the following
conditions for the animal’s welfare:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.3)
      A.   Access to food in an amount and quality reasonably sufficient to
satisfy the animal’s basic nutrition level to the extent that the animal’s
health or life is endangered.
      B.   Access to a supply of potable water in an amount reasonably
sufficient to satisfy the animal’s basic hydration level to the extent that the
animal’s health or life is endangered. Access to snow or ice does not satisfy
this requirement.
      C.   Sanitary conditions free from excessive animal waste or the
overcrowding of animals to the extent that the animal’s health or life is
endangered.
      D.   Ventilated shelter reasonably sufficient to provide adequate
protection from the elements and weather conditions suitable for the age,
species, and physical condition of the animal so as to maintain the animal in a
state of good health to the extent that the animal’s health or life is
endangered. The shelter must protect the animal from wind, rain, snow, or sun
and have adequate bedding to provide reasonable protection against cold and
dampness. A shelter may include a residence, garage, barn, shed, or doghouse.
      E.   Grooming, to the extent it is reasonably necessary to prevent
adverse health effects or suffering.
      F.   Veterinary care deemed necessary by a reasonably prudent person to
relieve an animal’s distress from any of the following:
         (1)   A condition caused by failing to provide for the animal’s
welfare as described in this section.
         (2)   An injury or illness suffered by the animal causing the animal
to suffer prolonged pain and suffering.
   2.   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      A.   A person operating a commercial establishment under a valid
authorization issued or renewed under Section 162.2A of the Code of Iowa, or a
person acting under the direction or supervision of that person, if all of the
following apply:
         (1)   The animal, as described in Subsection 1, was maintained as part
of the commercial establishment’s operation.
         (2)   In providing conditions for the welfare of the animal, as
described in Subsection 1, the person complied with the standard of care
requirements provided in Section 162.10A[1] of the Code of Iowa, including any
applicable rules adopted by the Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship
applying to: (i) a State licensee or registrant operating pursuant to Section
162.10A[2a] or [2b] of the Code of Iowa; or (ii) a permittee operating pursuant
to Section 162.10A[2c] of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   A research facility if the research facility has been issued or
renewed a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and Land
Stewardship pursuant to Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa, and performs functions
within the scope of accepted practices and disciplines associated with the
research facility.
55.03   LIVESTOCK NEGLECT.
It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines livestock in any place to
fail to provide the livestock with care consistent with customary animal
husbandry practices, or to deprive the livestock of necessary sustenance, or to
injure or destroy livestock by any means that causes pain or suffering in a
manner inconsistent with customary animal husbandry practices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.2)
55.04   ABANDONMENT OF CATS AND DOGS.
It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of a cat or dog to
relinquish all rights in and duties to care for the cat or dog. This section
does not apply to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.8)
   1.   The delivery of a cat or dog to another person who will accept
ownership and custody of the cat or dog.
   2.   The delivery of a cat or dog to an animal shelter or pound or that has
been issued or renewed a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture
and Land Stewardship under Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa.
   3.   A person who relinquishes custody of a cat at a location in which the
person does not hold a legal or equitable interest, if previously the person
had taken custody of the cat at the same location and provided for the cat’s
sterilization by a veterinarian.
55.05   LIVESTOCK.
It is unlawful for a person to keep livestock within the City except by written
consent of the Council or except in compliance with the City’s zoning
regulations.
55.06   AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any owner to allow an animal to run at large within the
corporate limits of the City.
55.07   DAMAGE OR INTERFERENCE.
It is unlawful for the owner of an animal to allow or permit such an animal to
pass upon the premises of another thereby causing damage to, or interference
with, the premises.
55.08   ANNOYANCE OR DISTURBANCE.
It is unlawful for the owner of a dog to allow or permit such dog to cause
serious annoyance or disturbance to any person by frequent and habitual
howling, yelping, barking, or otherwise, or by running after or chasing
persons, bicycles, automobiles, or other vehicles.
55.09   CLEANING DEFECATED MATERIAL.
Owners of cats or dogs are responsible for cleaning up or picking up,
immediately or within a reasonable time, any material defecated by their cats
or dogs within the City.
55.10   RABIES VACCINATION.
Every owner of a dog shall obtain a rabies vaccination for such animal. It is
unlawful for any person to own or have a dog in said person’s possession, six
months of age or over, which has not been vaccinated against rabies. Dogs kept
in State or federally licensed kennels and not allowed to run at large are not
subject to these vaccination requirements.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.33)
55.11   OWNER’S DUTY.
It is the duty of the owner of any dog, cat, or other animal that has bitten or
attacked a person or any person having knowledge of such bite or attack to
report this act to a local health or law enforcement official. It is the duty
of physicians and veterinarians to report to the local board of health the
existence of any animal known or suspected to be suffering from rabies.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.38)
55.12   CONFINEMENT.
If a local board of health receives information that an animal has bitten a
person or that a dog or animal is suspected of having rabies, the board shall
order the owner to confine such animal in the manner it directs. If the owner
fails to confine such animal in the manner directed, the animal shall be
apprehended and impounded by such board, and after 10 days the board may
humanely destroy the animal. If such animal is returned to its owner, the owner
shall pay the cost of impoundment. This section does not apply if a police
service dog or a horse used by a law enforcement agency and acting in the
performance of its duties has bitten a person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.39)
55.13   AT LARGE: IMPOUNDMENT.
Animals found at large in violation of this chapter shall be seized and
impounded, or at the discretion of the peace officer, the owner may be served a
summons to appear before a proper court to answer charges made thereunder.
55.14   DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
When an animal has been apprehended and impounded, written notice shall be
provided to the owner within two days after impoundment, if the owner’s name
and current address can reasonably be determined by accessing a tag or other
device that is on or part of the animal. Impounded animals may be recovered by
the owner upon payment of impounding costs, and if an unvaccinated dog, by
having it immediately vaccinated. If the owner fails to redeem the animal
within seven days from the date that the notice is mailed, or if the owner
cannot be located within seven days, the animal shall be disposed of in
accordance with law or destroyed by euthanasia.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.37, 351.41)
55.15   IMPOUNDING COSTS.
Impounding costs are $15.00 for the initial impoundment and $10.00 per day for
care.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.37)
55.16   PET AWARDS PROHIBITED.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 717E)
   1.   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to award a pet or advertise
that a pet may be awarded as any of the following:
      A.   A prize for participating in a game.
      B.   A prize for participating in a fair.
      C.   An inducement or condition for visiting a place of business or
attending an event sponsored by a business.
      D.   An inducement or condition for executing a contract that includes
provisions unrelated to the ownership, care, or disposition of the pet.
   2.   Exceptions. This section does not apply to any of the following:
      A.   A pet shop licensed pursuant to Section 162.5 of the Code of Iowa if
the award of a pet is provided in connection with the sale of a pet on the
premises of the pet shop.
      B.   Youth programs associated with 4-H Clubs; Future Farmers of America;
the Izaak Walton League of America; or organizations associated with outdoor
recreation, hunting, or fishing, including but not limited to the Iowa
Sportsmen’s Federation.
55.17   TAMPERING WITH A RABIES VACCINATION TAG.
It is unlawful to tamper with a rabies vaccination tag.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.45)
   1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with a rabies vaccination tag
if all of the following apply:
      A.   The person knowingly removes, damages, or destroys a rabies
vaccination tag as described in Section 351.35 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   The rabies vaccination tag is attached to a collar worn by a dog,
including as provided in Sections 351.25 and 351.26 of the Code of Iowa.
   2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
      A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized
to take action by the owner.
      B.   A peace officer.
      C.   A veterinarian.
      D.   An animal shelter or pound.
55.18   TAMPERING WITH AN ELECTRONIC HANDLING DEVICE.
It is unlawful to tamper with an electronic handling device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.46)
   1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with an electronic handling
device if all of the following apply:
      A.   The person knowingly removes, disables, or destroys an electronic
device designed and used to maintain custody or control of the dog or modify
the dog’s behavior.
      B.   The electronic device is attached to or worn by the dog or attached
to an item worn by the dog, including (but not limited to) a collar, harness,
or vest.
   2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
      A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized
to take action by the owner.
      B.   A peace officer.
      C.   A veterinarian.
      D.   An animal shelter or pound.
CHAPTER 56
DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS ANIMALS
 
56.01 Definitions                  56.03 Keeping of Vicious Animals Prohibited
56.02 Keeping of Dangerous Animals 56.04 Seizure, Impoundment, and Disposition
Prohibited
 
56.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Dangerous animal” means: † 5
      A.   Badgers, wolverines, weasels, skunk and mink.
      B.   Raccoons.
      C.   Bats.
      D.   Scorpions.
      E.   Pit Bull Terriers, including the following:
         (1)   The Bull Terrier breed of dog;
         (2)   The Staffordshire Bull Terrier breed;
         (3)   The American Staffordshire Terrier breed;
         (4)   The American Pit Bull Terrier breed;
         (5)   Any dog which has the appearance and characteristics of being
predominantly of the breeds of Bull Terrier, Staffordshire Bull Terrier,
American Pit Bull Terrier, or American Staffordshire Terrier.
      F.   Any dog or other animal which has a known propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack human beings or domestic animals without provocation, as
evidenced by its habitual or repeated chasing, snapping or barking at human
beings or domestic animals so as to potentially cause injury to or to otherwise
endanger their safety; or any dog or other animal that manifests a disposition
to snap or bite.
      G.   Any of the above stated dogs or other animals that have been cross-
bred or genetically altered (e.g., wolf-dog).
   2.   “Vicious animal” means any of the following:
      A.   Any animal, except for a dangerous animal per se, as listed above,
that has bitten or clawed a person or persons while running at large and the
attack was unprovoked; or,
      B.   Any animal that has exhibited vicious tendencies in present or past
conduct, including such that said animal:
         (1)   Has bitten or clawed a person or persons on two separate
occasions within a 12-month period; or
         (2)   Did bite or claw once causing injuries above the shoulders of a
person; or
         (3)   Could not be controlled or restrained by the owner at the time
of the attack to prevent the occurrence; or
         (4)   Has attacked any domestic animal or fowl on three separate
occasions within a 12-month period.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Certain other dangerous animals, listed in Chapter 717F.1,
5 Paragraph 5a, of the Code of Iowa, are specifically prohibited and regulated by
  the Iowa Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship.
56.02   KEEPING OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
No person shall keep, shelter, or harbor any dangerous animal as a pet, or act
as a temporary custodian for such animal, or keep, shelter, or harbor such
animal for any other purpose or in any other capacity within the City, except
as hereinafter provided in this chapter.
56.03   KEEPING OF VICIOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
No person shall keep, shelter, or harbor for any reason within the City a
vicious animal except in the following circumstances:
   1.   Animals under the control of a law enforcement or military agency.
   2.   The keeping of guard dogs; however, guard dogs, must be kept within a
structure or fixed enclosure at all times, and any guard dog found at large may
be processed as a vicious animal pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
Any premises guarded by a guard dog shall be prominently posted with a sign
containing the wording “Guard Dog,” “Vicious Dog,” or words of similar import,
and the owner of such premises shall inform the local law enforcement officers
that a guard dog is on duty at said premises.
56.04   SEIZURE, IMPOUNDMENT, AND DISPOSITION.
   1.   In the event that a dangerous animal or vicious animal is found at
large and unattended upon public property, park property, public right-of-way,
or the property of someone other than its owner, thereby creating a hazard to
persons or property, such animal may, in the discretion of the Mayor or police
officer, be destroyed if it cannot be confined or captured. The City shall be
under no duty to attempt the confinement or capture of a dangerous animal or
vicious animal found at large, nor shall it have a duty to notify the owner of
such animal prior to its destruction.
   2.   Upon the complaint of any individual that a person is keeping,
sheltering or harboring a dangerous animal or vicious animal on premises in the
City, the Mayor or Police Officer shall cause the matter to be investigated and
if after investigation, the facts indicate that the person named in the
complaint is keeping, sheltering or harboring a dangerous or vicious animal in
the City, the Mayor or police officer shall order the person named in the
complaint to safely remove such animal from the City or destroy the animal
within three days of the receipt of such an order. Such order shall be
contained in a notice to remove dangerous or vicious animal, which notice shall
be given in writing to the person keeping, sheltering, or harboring the
dangerous animal or vicious animal, and shall be served personally or by
certified mail. Such order and notice to remove the dangerous animal or vicious
animal shall not be required where such animal has previously caused serious
physical harm or death to any person, in which case the Mayor or police officer
shall cause the animal to be immediately seized and impounded or killed if
seizure and impoundment are not possible without risk of serious physical harm
or death to any person.
   3.   The order to remove a dangerous animal or vicious animal issued by the
Mayor or police officer may be appealed to the Council. In order to appeal such
order, written notice of appeal must be filed with the Clerk within three days
after receipt of the order contained in the notice to remove dangerous or
vicious animal. Failure to file such written notice of appeal shall constitute
a waiver of right to appeal the order of the Mayor or Police Officer.
   4.   The notice of appeal shall state the grounds for such appeal and shall
be delivered personally or by certified mail to the Clerk. Within seven days a
date of hearing for such appeal will be set. After such hearing, the Council
may affirm or reverse the order of the Mayor or police officer. Such
determination shall be contained in a written decision and shall be filed with
the Clerk within three days after the hearing or any continued session thereof.
   5.   If the Council affirms the action of the Mayor or police officer, the
Council shall order in its written decision that the person owning, sheltering,
harboring, or keeping such dangerous or vicious animal remove such animal from
the City or destroy it. The decision and order shall immediately be served upon
the person against whom rendered in the same manner as the notice of removal.
If the original order of the Mayor or police officer is not appealed and is not
complied with within three days or the order of the Council after appeal is not
complied with within three days of its issuance, the Mayor or police officer is
authorized to seize, impound, or destroy such dangerous or vicious animal.
Failure to comply with an order of the Mayor or police officer issued pursuant
to this chapter and not appealed, or of the Council after appeal, constitutes a
simple misdemeanor.
   6.   In matters concerning dangerous animals defined in this chapter as Pit
Bull Terriers, the Council may allow the owner (as defined in Section
55.01) to keep the dog under the following conditions only:
      A.   Upon notice from the Police Department that an owner is suspected of
keeping, sheltering, or harboring a Pit Bull Terrier as defined in this
chapter, that person must obtain a genetic test as to the predominant breed of
their dog and present the results thereof to the Mayor and Police Department.
If the dog is not a Pit Bull Terrier as defined in this chapter, the dog is not
a dangerous animal unless it otherwise qualifies as such pursuant to Section
56.01.
      B.   Should the report indicate that the dog is a Pit Bull Terrier as
defined in this chapter the owner may only keep the dog within the City by
performing all of the following within 30 days of the findings of the report:
         (1)   The owner must provide documentation to the Clerk that the dog
has been spayed and neutered and that it has had an identification microchip
inserted;
         (2)   The owner must provide documentation to the Clerk that there is
insurance coverage in the minimum amount of $1,000,000 per occurrence and that
the policy is written in such a way so as to provide the City with notice of a
lapse in the policy coverage;
         (3)   The owner must register the dog with the Clerk and pay a $50.00
registration to defray administrative costs;
         (4)   The dog must be evaluated for any dangerous behavioral
dispositions by a qualified professional approved by the City at least annually
and determined to not be a threat to persons. A copy of the report of the
evaluation shall be placed on file with the Clerk;
         (5)   The dog must be confined in a kennel or fenced-in yard in a
sufficient manner so as to prevent the dog from escaping from its owner’s
premises. Upon the occurrence of a third escape in any 12 month period, the dog
shall no longer be allowed to remain within City limits and must be removed or
destroyed pursuant to the procedure as detailed otherwise in this section.
CHAPTER 57
CRIMINAL ACTIVITY NUISANCE
 
57.01 Criminal Activity Nuisance        57.07 Emergency Abatement
57.02 Prohibitions                      57.08 Corrective Action by the City;
                                        Collection of Costs
57.03 Inspection of Premises            57.09 Appeals of Administrative
                                        Decisions or Actions
57.04 Finding of Violation; Nuisance    57.10 Alternative Means of Enforcement
Property Abatement Plan
57.05 Notice of Violation; Contents     57.11 Service of Notice
57.06 Founded Calls for Service Charged
to Nuisance Property
 
57.01   CRIMINAL ACTIVITY NUISANCE.
Property shall be deemed a nuisance property upon a determination by the Police
Department or code enforcement staff that any one or more of the following
subsections is true with respect to the property:
   1.   More than one founded calls for service have been made concerning the
following nuisance activities at or within 1,000 feet of the property within a
period of 12 consecutive months, whether committed by an owner or lawful
possessor of the property or a permittee of an owner or lawful possessor of the
property, or if said activity is either caused, encouraged, permitted, or
coordinated by the owner or person in lawful possession of the property or a
permittee(s) of an owner or person in lawful possession of the property:
      A.   Manufacture or delivery of a controlled substance in violation of
Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa;
      B.   Kidnapping as defined in Chapter 710 of the Code of Iowa;
      C.   Arson as defined in Chapter 712 of the Code of Iowa;
      D.   Burglary as defined in Chapter 713 of the Code of Iowa;
      E.   Robbery as defined in Chapter 711 of the Code of Iowa;
      F.   Sex abuse as defined in Chapter 709 of the Code of Iowa;
      G.   Intimidation with a dangerous weapon as defined in Section 708.6 of
the Code of Iowa;
      H.   Willful injury as defined in Section 708.4 of the Code of Iowa;
      I.   Sexual exploitation of a minor in violation of Section 728.12 of the
Code of Iowa;
      J.   Felony gambling in violation of Chapter 725.7 of the Code of Iowa;
      K.   Felony criminal mischief as defined in Chapter 716 of the Code of
Iowa;
      L.   Animal contests in violation of Chapter 717D of the Code of Iowa;
      M.   Possessing or carrying a dangerous weapon as defined in Section 724
of the Code of Iowa;
      N.   Riot as defined in Section 723.1 of the Code of Iowa;
      O.   Failure to abate odors or offensive annoyances as defined in this
Code of Ordinances;
      P.   Owning, keeping, or harboring a dangerous animal as defined in this
Code of Ordinances;
      Q.   Prostitution as defined in Chapter 725 of the Code of Iowa;
      R.   Violations under any part of Section 706A.2 of the Code of Iowa;
      S.   Any false statements made concerning any criminal activity made to
any law enforcement officer in violation of the Code of Iowa.
   2.   More than two founded calls for service have been made concerning the
following nuisance activities at or within 1,500 feet of the property within a
period of 12 consecutive months, whether committed by the owner or lawful
possessor of the property or permittee(s) of the owner or lawful possessor, or
if said activity is either caused, encouraged, permitted, or coordinated by the
owner or person in lawful possession of the property or a permittee(s) of an
owner or person in lawful possession of the property:
      A.   Possession of a controlled substance in violation of Chapter 124 of
the Code of Iowa;
      B.   Serious or aggravated misdemeanor criminal mischief as defined in
Chapter 716 of the Code of Iowa;
      C.   Serious or aggravated misdemeanor assault as defined in Chapter 708
of the Code of Iowa;
      D.   Serious or aggravated misdemeanor theft as defined in Chapter 714 of
the Code of Iowa;
      E.   Misdemeanor gambling as defined in Chapter 725 of the Code of Iowa;
      F.   False imprisonment as defined in Section 710.7 of the Code of Iowa;
      G.   An unpermitted or illegal use under any portion of this Code of
Ordinances;
      H.   Unlawful discharge of any device in violation of Iowa law or this
Code of Ordinances;
      I.   Engaging in conduct prohibited by any portion of this Code of
Ordinances concerning disorderly houses and wrongful drinking establishments;
      J.   Failure to disperse from an unlawful assembly as defined in Section
723.3 of the Code of Iowa;
      K.   Serious or aggravated misdemeanor gambling as defined by Chapter 725
of the Code of Iowa;
      L.   Violations under any part of Section 706A.2 of the Code of Iowa;
      M.   Any false statements made concerning any criminal activity made to
any law enforcement officer in violation of the Code of Iowa.
   3.   More than three founded calls for service have been made concerning the
following nuisance activities at or within 1,500 feet of the property within a
period of 12 consecutive months, whether committed by an owner or person in
lawful possession of the property or a permittee(s) of an owner or person in
lawful possession of the property, or if said activity is either caused,
encouraged, permitted, or coordinated by the owner or person in lawful
possession of the property or a permittee(s) of an owner or person in lawful
possession of the property:
      A.   Any health, environmental, or solid waste violation as defined in
this Code of Ordinances;
      B.   Unlawful assembly in violation of Section 723.2 of the Code of Iowa;
      C.   Defacing City property and graffiti as prohibited by this Code of
Ordinances or Iowa law;
      D.   Simple misdemeanor assault in violation of Chapter 708 of the Code
of Iowa;
      E.   Owning, keeping, harboring, or knowingly permitting an animal to
create such noise as to constitute a violation of this Code of Ordinances;
      F.   Disturbing the peace in violation of this Code of Ordinances or Iowa
law;
      G.   Consumption or intoxication in public places in violation of Section
123.46 of the Code of Iowa;
      H.   Disorderly conduct in violation of Section 723.4 of the Code of
Iowa;
      I.   Persons under legal age in violation of Section 123.47 of the Code
of Iowa;
      J.   Making, continuing, or causing the making or continuance of a noise
disturbance as limited by this Code of Ordinances;
      K.   Noise violations pursuant to this Code of Ordinances;
      L.   Violations under any part of Section 706A.2 of the Code of Iowa;
      M.   Any false statements made concerning any criminal activity made to
any law enforcement officer in violation of the Code of Iowa.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing,
Chapter 57 shall not apply to calls for service made by a caller seeking law
enforcement assistance or other emergency assistance for a victim of crime or
abuse, or seeking law enforcement assistance or other emergency assistance for
an individual in any other emergency situation, if the caller had a reasonable
belief that emergency assistance was necessary to prevent the perpetration or
escalation of the abuse, crime, or other emergency or, in the event of abuse,
crime, or other emergency, the emergency assistance was actually needed. Also
notwithstanding the foregoing, no penalty shall be imposed under this chapter
against a resident, owner, tenant, or landlord because the resident, owner,
tenant, or landlord was a victim of abuse or crime.
   Except where otherwise specified, the references in Section
57.01 to provisions of the Code of Iowa or this Code of Ordinances shall not be
construed to mean that prosecution of the specific charge is required to
proceed under this chapter, nor shall it be construed to mean the nuisance
activity must be proven beyond a reasonable doubt. Rather, in determining
whether a property is a nuisance property, the City staff or Police Department
shall apply the criteria of this section using a preponderance of evidence as
the standard of proof. Any determination pursuant to this section shall be
subject to administrative appeal or Court review as set forth in this chapter.
57.02   PROHIBITIONS.
The following are hereby prohibited by this chapter:
   1.   The creation or maintenance of or the failure to abate a nuisance
property.
   2.   Interference, delay, or hindrance of enforcement of this chapter except
to pursue appeal or review of administrative actions by the City staff or the
Police Department.
   3.   The termination of a lease agreement with a tenant or other retaliation
against a tenant because that tenant notified or otherwise complained to law
enforcement or other City officials that nuisance activity was occurring at the
property.
   4.   The termination of a lease agreement with a tenant or other retaliation
against a tenant because the tenant called for emergency assistance for
themselves or on behalf of a person in need of emergency assistance.
57.03   INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
The City staff or the Police Department is authorized to enter and remain upon
private property to the extent reasonably necessary for the purpose of
locating, identifying, investigating, and documenting any nuisance activity as
defined by this chapter and, further, for the purpose of administering this
chapter, subject in any event to the limitations on that authority under other
applicable law.
57.04   FINDING OF VIOLATION; NUISANCE PROPERTY ABATEMENT PLAN.
   1.   Upon a threshold determination by the City staff or the Police
Department that a property meets the criteria set forth in Section 57.01, the
City shall cause a notice of violation to be served upon the property owner in
the manner provided by this chapter. A courtesy copy of the notice of violation
shall also be sent by regular mail to the occupant(s) of the property in
question at the address of the property in question, if different from the
owners.
   2.   Upon the issuance of a notice of violation, the property owner may
submit a nuisance property abatement plan specifying the corrective action the
property owner will take, including dates by which each corrective action shall
be completed.
   3.   The City staff or the Police Department shall meet with any property
owner who has submitted a nuisance property abatement plan to review the facts
of the case and corrective action contemplated by the plan.
   4.   The submission of a nuisance property abatement plan may be the basis
for the City staff or the Police Department, pursuant to Subsection
57.05, to postpone by 15 days the imposition of charges otherwise due under
Subsection
57.06.
57.05   NOTICE OF VIOLATION; CONTENTS.
The notice of violation required by this chapter shall contain:
   1.   The location of the nuisance property in question;
   2.   A description of what constitutes the violation of this chapter;
   3.   A statement that within 15 days following service of the notice of
violation, the property owner shall be charged for future founded calls for
service to the nuisance property; provided, however, that if the property owner
submits a nuisance property abatement plan, then the City may postpone by 15
days the date that founded calls for service will be billed to the property
owner.
   4.   A statement that an aggrieved party may seek administrative appeal of
the City staff or Police Department’s determinations that the property is a
nuisance property and the notice of violation or Court review as authorized by
State law.
57.06   FOUNDED CALLS FOR SERVICE CHARGED TO NUISANCE PROPERTY.
With respect to a property for which a notice of violation has been duly
served, the City staff or Police Department shall cause to be charged to the
property owner all costs associated with founded calls for service to the
property, beginning on the date specified in the notice of violation and
continuing thereafter until the expiration of one year from the date on the
notice of violation. This provision shall not be construed so as to preclude an
additional determination under that the property is a nuisance property due to
additional nuisance activity. In the event of such an additional finding, the
12-month period shall run from the date of the most recent notice of violation.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the charges otherwise due under this section may
be postponed by the City staff or the Police Department in accordance with
Sections
57.05(3) and (4).
57.07   EMERGENCY ABATEMENT.
If it is determined by the City staff that an emergency exists by reason of the
continuing presence or repeated occurrence of nuisance activity, the City may
perform any action required under this chapter to the extent reasonably
necessary to abate the nuisance activity constituting the emergency. This
provision shall not be construed so as to impose any duty upon the City to take
such action. Emergency action pursuant to this section may be taken without
prior notice or hearing. Notice of emergency action shall be provided to the
property owner, along with an opportunity for hearing as provided in this
chapter. Subject to the provisions of this chapter concerning appeals of
administrative actions or decisions, if the amount shown by the statement has
not been paid by the person within 30 days, it shall then be collected with,
and in the same manner, as special taxes, or in the sole discretion of the
City, in a court action for personal judgment against the owner.
57.08   CORRECTIVE ACTION BY THE CITY; COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   1.   If a property owner who has been served with a notice of violation
fails or refuses to prevent the recurrence of nuisance activity, and the City
is capable of correcting or eliminating the nuisance activity, the City may
take such lawful steps as are necessary and proper to abate the nuisance
activity upon 30 days’ notice to the property owner. This provision shall not
be construed so as to impose any duty upon the City to take such corrective
action. In so doing, the City shall keep an accurate account of the costs;
incurred in correcting or eliminating the nuisance activity. The City staff or
the Police Department shall keep an itemized account of such costs. The salvage
value, if any, of any item or items collected in connection with such action by
the City shall be retained by the City and shall be applied as an offset
against costs. In the event the salvage proceeds exceed the costs, any such
excess shall be paid promptly to the property owner.
   2.   In the event action is taken pursuant to this section, the City staff
or the Police Department shall mail to the property owner an itemized statement
of the expenses incurred, minus any salvage value, to the property owner
demanding payment of the expense. Subject to the provisions of this chapter
concerning appeals of administrative actions or decisions, if the amount shown
by the statement has not been paid by the person within 30 days, it shall then
be collected with, and in the same manner, as special taxes, or in the sole
discretion of the City, in a court action for personal judgment against the
owner.
57.09   APPEALS OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS OR ACTIONS.
   1.   Any person aggrieved by a decision or act of the City shall have the
opportunity for hearing before a duly appointed hearing officer. Any aggrieved
party may submit a request for a hearing which shall be in writing and
delivered to the City Administrator. If said request is received within the
time stated in the notice of the action or decision in question, the hearing
shall be held pursuant to this section; any request for hearing received
thereafter shall not entitle the requesting party to a hearing.
   2.   Upon receipt of a timely request for hearing, the City Administrator
shall set a hearing to be held before the City Administrator, acting as hearing
officer, or the City Administrator’s designee acting as hearing officer, within
30 days from said receipt and, further, shall give at least 10 days’ notice to
the requesting party of the time, date, and location of said hearing. The
hearing may be reset by agreement of the requesting party, the City, and the
hearing officer, as confirmed in writing, but in no event shall the hearing be
held any later than 60 days after the date of the action or decision being
appealed.
   3.   At the time of the hearing, the requesting party and the City staff or
the Police Department shall be afforded the opportunity to present evidence and
arguments. The formal rules of evidence and procedure shall not apply. Legal
counsel shall not be required but shall be permitted.
   4.   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an administrative hearing held
pursuant to this section, the hearing officer shall make the following written
findings which shall be based on a preponderance of the evidence as the
standard of proof, and the City shall serve notice thereof upon the appealing
party:
      A.   Whether the determination of a nuisance property was correct; and
      B.   Whether the action taken upon that determination was in accordance
with all applicable law.
   5.   Any decision rendered by a hearing officer pursuant to this section
shall be subject to further review by a Court in accordance with Iowa law.
   6.   Where a person aggrieved by an action taken pursuant to this chapter
has made a request for an administrative hearing pursuant to this section or
has sought further review by a court as provided by State law, any charges for
calls for service and any other administrative fees imposed pursuant to this
chapter shall be recorded, but the due date therefor and collection thereof
shall be suspended pending the final outcome of any administrative hearing or
court review.
57.10   ALTERNATIVE MEANS OF ENFORCEMENT.
Without negating, restricting, or otherwise limiting any conditions or
sanctions imposed pursuant to this chapter, this chapter may also be enforced
by any lawful means including but not limited to the following:
   1.   Prosecution as a simple misdemeanor in accordance with Chapter 364 of
the Code of Iowa.
   2.   The filing of a municipal infraction in accordance with this Code of
Ordinances and Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa, which may seek fines,
injunctive relief against future violations, and other relief permitted at law.
   3.   Fines under Subsection 2 shall be $250.00 for any single offense which
is a first offense; $500.00 for any single offense which is a second offense;
$750.00 for any single offense which is a third or subsequent offense. In the
case of any condition which is a continuing violation in need of abatement,
fines shall be $250.00 for the first day following the date of the first notice
to abate, or from the filing date of a municipal infraction action, whichever
is first; $500.00 for each subsequent day up to 30 days in which the condition
remains unabated; and $750.00 for each subsequent day thereafter.
   4.   The court may convert all fines to a personal judgment against the
owner or person in lawful possession of the premises.
57.11   SERVICE OF NOTICE.
Except where expressly provided otherwise, notices required under this chapter
shall be served by one or more of the following methods:
   1.   Mailing by both regular mail and certified mail, as defined in Section
618.15 (2021) of the Code of Iowa to the last known address of the property
owner;
   2.   Hand delivery to the property owner;
   3.   Personal service on the property owner pursuant to Iowa Rule of Civil
Procedure 1.305; or
   4.   Any other method of providing notice which results in the notice
actually being received by the property owner.
Notice served by mail under this section is deemed completed 10 business days
after the notice is deposited in the mail and postmarked for delivery, whether
or not the recipient signs a receipt for the notice.
CHAPTER 60
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE
 
60.01 Title                          60.06 Peace Officer’s Authority
60.02 Definitions                    60.07 Obedience to Peace Officers
60.03 Administration and Enforcement 60.08 Parades Regulated
60.04 Power to Direct Traffic        60.09 Fines
60.05 Reports of Traffic Accidents
 
60.01   TITLE.
Chapters 60 through
70 of this Code of Ordinances may be known and cited as the “Postville Traffic
Code” (and are referred to herein as the “Traffic Code”).
60.02   DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in the Traffic Code are defined by State law, such
definitions apply to their use in said Traffic Code and are adopted by
reference. Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, have the following
meanings:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)
   1.   “Business District” means the territory contiguous to and including the
following designated streets:
      A.   W. Greene Street from Ogden Street to the alley east of Lawler
Street;
      B.   Williams Street from the alley west of Lawler Street to the alley
east of Lawler Street;
      C.   Tilden Street from Reynolds Street to Summer Street;
      D.   Lawler Street from Murdock Street to Military Road.
   2.   “MPH” means miles per hour.
   3.   “Parade” means any march or procession of persons or vehicles organized
for marching or moving on the streets in an organized fashion or manner or any
march or procession of persons or vehicles represented or advertised to the
public as a parade.
   4.   “Park” or “parking” means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   5.   “Peace officer” means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   6.   “Pedestrian” means a person afoot or a person using a pedestrian
conveyance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(51))
   7.   “Pedestrian conveyance” means any human-powered device by which a
pedestrian may move other than by walking or by which a pedestrian may move
another person, including but not limited to a wheelchair, stroller,
skateboard, scooter, or other similar device. Pedestrian conveyance also
includes an electric personal assistive mobility device and any other device
used to move a person sitting or standing on the device regardless of whether
the device is powered by an electric motor, so long as the electric motor
produces less than 750 watts. Pedestrian conveyance does not include a bicycle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(51A))
   8.   “Residence district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway not comprising a business, suburban, or school district, where 40
percent or more of the frontage on such a highway for a distance of 300 feet or
more is occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings in use for
business.
   9.   “School district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway for a distance of 200 feet in either direction from a schoolhouse.
   10.   “Stand” or “standing” means the halting of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
   11.   “Stop” means when required, the complete cessation of movement.
   12.   “Stop” or “stopping” means when prohibited, any halting of a vehicle,
even momentarily, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control sign or signal.
   13.   “Suburban district” means all other parts of the City not included in
the business, school, or residence districts.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(78))
   14.   “Traffic control device” means all signs, signals, markings, and
devices not inconsistent with this chapter, lawfully placed or erected for the
purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
   15.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway. Vehicle does not
include:
      A.   Any device moved by human power, including a low-speed electric
bicycle.
      B.   Any device used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
      C.   Any personal delivery device operated pursuant to Chapter 321O of
the Code of Iowa.
      D.   Any integral part of a truck tractor or road tractor which is
mounted on the frame of the truck tractor or road tractor immediately behind
the cab and which may be used to transport persons and property, but which
cannot be drawn upon the highway by the truck tractor or another motor vehicle.
      E.   Any steering axle, dolly, auxiliary axle, or other integral part of
another vehicle which in and of itself is incapable of commercially
transporting any person or property but is used primarily to support another
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(90))
60.03   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
Provisions of this Traffic Code and State law relating to motor vehicles and
law of the road are enforced by the Police Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
60.04   POWER TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
A peace officer or, in the absence of a peace officer, any officer of the Fire
Department when at the scene of a fire, is authorized to direct all traffic by
voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws. In the event of an
emergency, traffic may be directed as conditions require, notwithstanding the
provisions of the traffic laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.4 and 321.236[2])
60.05   REPORTS OF TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS.
The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident within the limits of the City
shall file a report as and when required by the State Department of
Transportation (DOT). A copy of this report shall be filed with the City for
the confidential use of peace officers and shall be subject to the provisions
of Section 321.271 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.273)
60.06   PEACE OFFICER’S AUTHORITY.
A peace officer is authorized to stop a vehicle to require exhibition of the
driver’s license of the driver, to serve a summons or memorandum of traffic
violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to inspect the vehicle with
reference to size, weight, cargo, log book, bills of lading, or other manifest
of employment, tires and safety equipment, or to inspect the registration
certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or permit of such
vehicle. A peace officer having probable cause to stop a vehicle may require
exhibition of the proof of financial liability coverage card issued for the
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.492)
60.07   OBEDIENCE TO PEACE OFFICERS.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control, or regulate traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.229)
60.08   PARADES REGULATED.
No person shall conduct or cause any parade on any street except as provided
herein:
   1.   Permit Required. No parade shall be conducted without first obtaining a
written permit from the Mayor or Police Chief. Such permit shall state the time
and date for the parade to be held and the streets or general route therefore.
Such written permit granted to the person organizing or sponsoring the parade
shall be permission for all participants therein to parade when such
participants have been invited by the permittee to participate therein. The
closing of any portion of a primary highway must have the approval of the DOT
and State Patrol. No fee shall be required for such permit.
   2.   Parade Not a Street Obstruction. Any parade for which approval has been
given and the persons lawfully participating therein shall not be deemed an
obstruction of the streets, notwithstanding the provisions of any other
ordinance to the contrary.
   3.   Control by Peace Officers and Firefighters. Persons participating in
any parade shall at all times be subject to the lawful orders and directions in
the performance of their duties of law enforcement personnel and members of the
Fire Department.
60.09   FINES.
Any violation of a provision of this chapter or
Chapter 61 through
Chapter 81, inclusive, for which a fine or penalty is not otherwise provided,
shall be punishable by assessing a fine of $25.00.
CHAPTER 61
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
 
61.01 Installation  61.04 Standards
61.02 Crosswalks    61.05 Compliance
61.03 Traffic Lanes
 
61.01   INSTALLATION.
The Police Chief shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic control
devices when and as required under this Traffic Code or under State law or
emergency or temporary traffic control devices for the duration of an emergency
or temporary condition as traffic conditions may require to regulate, guide or
warn traffic. The Police Chief shall keep a record of all such traffic control
devices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.02   CROSSWALKS.
The Police Chief is hereby authorized, subject to approval of the Council by
resolution, to designate and maintain crosswalks by appropriate traffic control
devices at intersections where, due to traffic conditions, there is particular
danger to pedestrians crossing the street or roadway, and at such other places
as traffic conditions require.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] and 321.255)
61.03   TRAFFIC LANES.
The Police Chief is hereby authorized to mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as traffic conditions require, consistent with this
Traffic Code. Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] and 321.255)
61.04   STANDARDS.
Traffic control devices shall comply with standards established by The Manual
of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.05   COMPLIANCE.
No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official traffic
control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, unless
at the time otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject to the exceptions
granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under Section 321.231 and
321.231A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
CHAPTER 62
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
 
62.01 Violation of Regulations 62.05 Quiet Zones
62.02 Play Streets Designated  62.06 Obstructing View at Intersections
62.03 Vehicles on Sidewalks    62.07 Engine Back-Pressure Brakes Prohibited
62.04 Clinging to Vehicle      62.08 Driving Over Curbs
 
62.01   VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
Any person who willfully fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order of a
peace officer or direction of a Fire Department officer during a fire, or who
fails to abide by the applicable provisions of the following Iowa statutory
laws relating to motor vehicles and the statutory law of the road is in
violation of this section. These sections of the Code of Iowa are adopted by
reference and are as follows:
   1.   Section 321.17 – Misdemeanor to violate registration provisions.
   2.   Section 321.32 – Registration card, carried and exhibited; exception.
   3.   Section 321.37 – Display of plates.
   4.   Section 321.38 – Plates, method of attaching, imitations prohibited.
   5.   Section 321.57 – Operation under special plates.
   6.   Section 321.67 – Certificate of title must be executed.
   7.   Section 321.78 – Injuring or tampering with vehicle.
   8.   Section 321.79 – Intent to injure.
   9.   Section 321.91 – Limitation on liability; penalty for abandonment.
   10.   Section 321.98 – Operation without registration.
   11.   Section 321.99 – Fraudulent use of registration.
   12.   Section 321.104 – Penal offenses against title law.
   13.   Section 321.115 – Antique vehicles; model year plates permitted.
   14.   Section 321.174 – Operators licensed; operation of commercial
vehicles.
   15.   Section 321.174A – Operation of motor vehicle with expired license.
   16.   Section 321.180 – Instruction permits, commercial learner’s permits,
and chauffeur’s instruction permits.
   17.   Section 321.180B – Graduated driver’s licenses for persons aged
fourteen through seventeen.
   18.   Section 321.193 – Restrictions on licenses; penalty.
   19.   Section 321.194 – Special minors’ licenses.
   20.   Section 321.208A – Operation in violation of out-of-service order;
penalties.
   21.   Section 321.216 – Unlawful use of license and nonoperator’s
identification card; penalty.
   22.   Section 321.216B – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain alcohol.
   23.   Section 321.216C – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain tobacco, tobacco products
alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes.
   24.   Section 321.218 – Operating without valid driver’s license or when
disqualified; penalties.
   25.   Section 321.219 – Permitting unauthorized minor to drive.
   26.   Section 321.220 – Permitting unauthorized person to drive.
   27.   Section 321.221 – Employing unlicensed chauffeur.
   28.   Section 321.222 – Renting motor vehicle to another.
   29.   Section 321.223 – Driver’s license inspection for motor vehicle
rental.
   30.   Section 321.224 – Record kept.
   31.   Section 321.232 – Speed detection jamming devices; penalty.
   32.   Section 321.234A – All-terrain vehicles, highway use.
   33.   Section 321.235A – Electric personal assistive mobility devices.
   34.   Section 321.235B – Low-speed electric bicycles.
   35.   Section 321.247 – Golf cart operation on City streets.
   36.   Section 321.257 – Official traffic control signal.
   37.   Section 321.259 – Unauthorized signs, signals or markings.
   38.   Section 321.260 – Interference with devices, signs, or signals;
unlawful possession; traffic signal preemption devices.
   39.   Section 321.262 – Leaving scene of traffic accident prohibited;
vehicle damage only; removal of vehicles.
   40.   Section 321.263 – Information and aid; leaving scene of personal
injury accident.
   41.   Section 321.264 – Striking unattended vehicle.
   42.   Section 321.265 – Striking fixtures upon a highway.
   43.   Section 321.266 – Reporting accidents.
   44.   Section 321.275 – Operation of motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
   45.   Section 321.276 – Use of electronic communication device while
driving; text-messaging.
   46.   Section 321.277 – Reckless driving.
   47.   Section 321.277A – Careless driving.
   48.   Section 321.278 – Drag racing prohibited.
   49.   Section 321.281 – Actions against bicyclists.
   50.   Section 321.284 – Open container in motor vehicles, drivers.
   51.   Section 321.284A – Open container in motor vehicles, passengers.
   52.   Section 321.288 – Control of vehicle; reduced speed.
   53.   Section 321.295 – Limitation on bridge or elevated structures.
   54.   Section 321.297 – Driving on right-hand side of roadways; exceptions.
   55.   Section 321.298 – Meeting and turning to right.
   56.   Section 321.299 – Overtaking a vehicle.
   57.   Section 321.302 – Overtaking and passing.
   58.   Section 321.303 – Limitations on overtaking on the left.
   59.   Section 321.304 – Prohibited passing.
   60.   Section 321.305 – One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands.
   61.   Section 321.306 – Roadways laned for traffic.
   62.   Section 321.307 – Following too closely.
   63.   Section 321.309 – Towing.
   64.   Section 321.310 – Towing four-wheel trailers.
   65.   Section 321.312 – Turning on curve or crest of grade.
   66.   Section 321.313 – Starting parked vehicle.
   67.   Section 321.314 – When signal required.
   68.   Section 321.315 – Signal continuous.
   69.   Section 321.316 – Stopping.
   70.   Section 321.317 – Signals by hand and arm or signal device.
   71.   Section 321.318 – Method of giving hand and arm signals.
   72.   Section 321.319 – Entering intersections from different highways.
   73.   Section 321.320 – Left turns; yielding.
   74.   Section 321.321 – Entering through highways.
   75.   Section 321.322 – Vehicles entering stop or yield intersection.
   76.   Section 321.323 – Moving vehicle backward on highway.
   77.   Section 321.323A – Approaching certain stationary vehicles.
   78.   Section 321.324 – Operation on approach of emergency vehicles.
   79.   Section 321.324A – Funeral processions.
   80.   Section 321.329 – Duty of driver; pedestrians crossing or working on
highways.
   81.   Section 321.330 – Use of crosswalks.
   82.   Section 321.332 – White canes restricted to blind persons.
   83.   Section 321.333 – Duty of drivers.
   84.   Section 321.340 – Driving through safety zone.
   85.   Section 321.341 – Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad
train or railroad track equipment.
   86.   Section 321.342 – Stop at certain railroad crossings; posting warning.
   87.   Section 321.343 – Certain vehicles must stop.
   88.   Section 321.344 – Heavy equipment at crossing.
   89.   Section 321.344B – Immediate safety threat; penalty.
   90.   Section 321.354 – Stopping on traveled way.
   91.   Section 321.359 – Moving other vehicle.
   92.   Section 321.362 – Unattended motor vehicle.
   93.   Section 321.363 – Obstruction to driver’s view.
   94.   Section 321.364 – Preventing contamination of food by hazardous
material.
   95.   Section 321.365 – Coasting prohibited.
   96.   Section 321.366 – Acts prohibited on fully-controlled access
facilities.
   97.   Section 321.367 – Following fire apparatus.
   98.   Section 321.368 – Crossing fire hose.
   99.   Section 321.369 – Putting debris on highway.
   100.   Section 321.370 – Removing injurious material.
   101.   Section 321.371 – Clearing up wrecks.
   102.   Section 321.372 – Discharging pupils, stopping requirements;
penalties.
   103.   Section 321.381 – Movement of unsafe or improperly equipped vehicles.
   104.   Section 321.381A – Operation of low-speed vehicles.
   105.   Section 321.382 – Upgrade pulls; minimum speed.
   106.   Section 321.383 – Exceptions; slow vehicles identified.
   107.   Section 321.384 – When lighted lamps required.
   108.   Section 321.385 – Head lamps on motor vehicles.
   109.   Section 321.386 – Head lamps on motorcycles, motorized bicycles, and
all-terrain vehicles.
   110.   Section 321.387 – Rear lamps.
   111.   Section 321.388 – Illuminating plates.
   112.   Section 321.389 – Reflector requirement.
   113.   Section 321.390 – Reflector requirements.
   114.   Section 321.392 – Clearance and identification lights.
   115.   Section 321.393 – Color and mounting.
   116.   Section 321.394 – Lamp or flag on projecting load.
   117.   Section 321.395 – Lamps on parked vehicles.
   118.   Section 321.398 – Lamps on other vehicles and equipment.
   119.   Section 321.402 – Spot lamps.
   120.   Section 321.403 – Auxiliary driving lamps.
   121.   Section 321.404 – Signal lamps and signal devices.
   122.   Section 321.404A – Light-restricting devices prohibited.
   123.   Section 321.405 – Self-illumination.
   124.   Section 321.408 – Back-up lamps.
   125.   Section 321.409 – Mandatory lighting equipment.
   126.   Section 321.415 – Required usage of lighting devices.
   127.   Section 321.417 – Single-beam road-lighting equipment.
   128.   Section 321.418 – Alternate road-lighting equipment.
   129.   Section 321.419 – Number of driving lamps required or permitted.
   130.   Section 321.420 – Number of lamps lighted.
   131.   Section 321.421 – Special restrictions on lamps.
   132.   Section 321.422 – Red light in front, rear lights.
   133.   Section 321.423 – Flashing lights.
   134.   Section 321.430 – Brake, hitch, and control requirements.
   135.   Section 321.431 – Performance ability.
   136.   Section 321.432 – Horns and warning devices.
   137.   Section 321.433 – Sirens, whistles, air horns, and bells prohibited.
   138.   Section 321.434 – Bicycle sirens or whistles.
   139.   Section 321.436 – Mufflers, prevention of noise.
   140.   Section 321.437 – Mirrors.
   141.   Section 321.438 – Windshields and windows.
   142.   Section 321.439 – Windshield wipers.
   143.   Section 321.440 – Restrictions as to tire equipment.
   144.   Section 321.441 – Metal tires prohibited.
   145.   Section 321.442 – Projections on wheels.
   146.   Section 321.444 – Safety glass.
   147.   Section 321.445 – Safety belts and safety harnesses; use required.
   148.   Section 321.446 – Child restraint devices.
   149.   Section 321.449 – Motor carrier safety rules.
   150.   Section 321.449A – Rail crew transport drivers.
   151.   Section 321.449B – Texting or using a mobile telephone while
operating a commercial motor vehicle.
   152.   Section 321.450 – Hazardous materials transportation regulations.
   153.   Section 321.454 – Width of vehicles.
   154.   Section 321.455 – Projecting loads on passenger vehicles.
   155.   Section 321.456 – Height of vehicles.
   156.   Section 321.457 – Maximum length.
   157.   Section 321.458 – Loading beyond front.
   158.   Section 321.460 – Spilling loads on highways.
   159.   Section 321.461 – Trailers and towed vehicles.
   160.   Section 321.462 – Drawbars and safety chains.
   161.   Section 321.463 – Maximum gross weight; exceptions, penalties.
   162.   Section 321.465 – Weighing vehicles and removal of excess.
   163.   Section 321.466 – Increased loading capacity; reregistration.
62.02   PLAY STREETS DESIGNATED.
The Police Chief shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a
play street and cause to be placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway
indicating and helping to protect the same. Whenever authorized signs are
erected indicating any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall
drive a vehicle upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of
vehicles having business or whose residences are within such closed area, and
then any said driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such
street or portion thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
62.03   VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk area except
at a driveway.
62.04   CLINGING TO VEHICLE.
No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of the City unless all
passengers of said vehicle are inside the vehicle in the place intended for
their accommodation. No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
in-line skates, sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or
herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
62.05   QUIET ZONES.
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
62.06   OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS.
It is unlawful to allow any tree, hedge, billboard, or other object to obstruct
the view of an intersection by preventing persons from having a clear view of
traffic approaching the intersection from cross streets. Any such obstruction
is deemed a nuisance and in addition to the standard penalty may be abated in
the manner provided by
Chapter 50.
62.07   ENGINE BACK-PRESSURE BRAKES PROHIBITED.
No person operating a motor vehicle within the City shall use an engine back-
pressure braking system or mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the
braking or deceleration of the motor vehicle.
62.08   DRIVING OVER CURBS.
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive over a curb or the border of any street
except at an approved curb cut.
CHAPTER 63
SPEED REGULATIONS
 
63.01 General                                        63.04 Special Speed Zones
63.02 State Code Speed Limits                        63.05 Minimum Speed
63.03 Parks, Cemeteries, Parking Lots, and Alleyways
 
63.01   GENERAL.
Every driver of a motor vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a careful
and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and proper,
having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and of any
other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle on any
street at a speed greater than will permit said driver to bring it to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right to
assume, however, that all persons using said street will observe the law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.285)
63.02   STATE CODE SPEED LIMITS.
The following speed limits are established in Section 321.285 of the Code of
Iowa and any speed in excess thereof is unlawful unless specifically designated
otherwise in this chapter as a special speed zone.
   1.   Business District – 20 MPH.
   2.   Residence or School District – 25 MPH.
   3.   Suburban District – 45 MPH.
63.03   PARKS, CEMETERIES, PARKING LOTS, AND ALLEYWAYS.
A speed in excess of 15 MPH in any public park, cemetery, alleyway, or parking
lot, unless specifically designated otherwise in this chapter, is unlawful.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[5] and [11])
63.04   SPECIAL SPEED ZONES.
In accordance with requirements of the Iowa Department of Transportation, or
whenever the Council shall determine upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that any speed limit listed in Section
63.02 is greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found
to exist at any intersection or other place or upon any part of the City street
system, the Council shall determine and adopt by ordinance such higher or lower
speed limit as it deems reasonable and safe at such location. The following
special speed zones have been established:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.290)
   1.   Special 15 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 15 miles per hour is
unlawful during the period of June 1 to September 1 of each year on any of the
following designated streets or parts thereof in the vicinity of the swimming
pool and Meyer’s Park
      A.   Arthur F. Brandt Drive.
      B.   Bancroft Street, from Murdock Street to Stoneman Street.
      C.   Grandview Drive.
      D.   Hill Street, from Oak Drive to Arthur F. Brandt Drive.
      E.   Murdock Street, from Boody Street to Bancroft Street.
      F.   Oak Drive, from Wilson Street to Hill Street.
      G.   Park Street.
      H.   Wilson Street, from Oak Drive to Arthur F. Brandt Drive.
   2.   Special 25 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 25 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   Hardin Drive/100th Street from the intersection with E. Military
Road for 1100 feet.
      B.   Lawler Street (Highway No. 18 /52 and 51) from 100 feet north of the
centerline of Murdock Street to Military Road.
      C.   Military Road (Highway No. 18/52) from Lawler Street to 200± feet
east of Summer Street.
      D.   W. Tilden Street (Highway No. 18) from Lawler Street to Reynolds
Street.
   3.   Special 35 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 35 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   Aspen Avenue from the intersection of S. Lawler Street and 100th
Street for 2,065 feet to the south City limits.
      B.   Hardin Drive/100th Street from 1100 feet east of the intersection
with E. Military Road for 1,310 feet to the east City limits.
      C.   Military Road (Highway No. 18/52) from 200± feet east of Summer
Street to 400± feet southeast of Hardin Drive.
      D.   N. Lawler Street (Highway No. 51) from 50± feet south of Murdock
Street north to DOT Station 105±.
      E.   W. Tilden Street (Highway No. 18) from 50± feet west of West Street
to 1,750± feet west of West Street.
   4.   Special 45 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 45 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   U.S. Highway 18/52 from 400 feet southeast of Hardin Drive to 1,095
feet south of the centerline of Hyman Drive.
63.05   MINIMUM SPEED.
A person shall not drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation, or in compliance with law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.294)
CHAPTER 64
TURNING REGULATIONS
 
64.01 Turning at Intersections 64.03 Left Turn for Parking
64.02 U-Turns
 
64.01   TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.311)
   1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   2.   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right
half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to depart from the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
   3.   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street
shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection. A left turn from a one-way street into a two-way
street shall be made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street
being entered upon leaving the intersection.
The Police Chief may cause markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or
adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct, as traffic conditions
require, that a different course from that specified above be traveled by
vehicles turning at intersections, and when markers, buttons or signs are so
placed, no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other
than as directed and required by such markers, buttons, or signs.
64.02   U-TURNS.
It is unlawful for a driver to make a U-turn except at an intersection;
however, U-turns are prohibited within the Business District and at
intersections where there are automatic traffic signals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[9])
64.03   LEFT TURN FOR PARKING.
No person shall make a left-hand turn, crossing the centerline of the street,
for the purpose of parking on said street; and no person shall back out of a
parking space and cross the centerline of the street for the purpose of
continuing travel in the same direction or the opposite direction. This
prohibition shall apply only to persons intending to park in the following
areas:
   1.   The north and south sides of E. Williams Street between Lawler Street
and the north-south alley immediately east of Lawler Street.
   2.   The north and south sides of W. Greene Street between Lawler Street and
Reynolds Street.
   3.   The north side of E. Tilden Street between Lawler Street and the north-
south alley immediately east of Lawler Street.
   4.   The south and north sides of W. Williams Street between Lawler Street
and Reynolds Street.
   5.   The south side of E. Greene Street between Lawler Street and Maple
Street.
   6.   The west side of Lawler Street between Tilden Street and Greene Street.
CHAPTER 65
STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED
 
65.01 Through Streets             65.05 School Stops
65.02 Stop Required               65.06 Stop Before Crossing Sidewalk
65.03 Four-Way Stop Intersections 65.07 Stop When Traffic Is Obstructed
65.04 Yield Required              65.08 Pedestrians’ Right-of-Way
 
65.01   THROUGH STREETS.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop, unless a yield is permitted by this
chapter, before entering an intersection with the following designated through
streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   E. Greene Street from the east line of Lawler Street to Lybrand Street.
   2.   E. Tilden Street from the east line of Lawler Street to Lybrand Street.
   3.   E. Williams Street from the east line of Lawler Street to Lybrand
Street.
   4.   Lawler Street from the north line of Military Road to the north
corporate line.
   5.   Lybrand Street from Maple Street to northeast corporate line.
   6.   Military Road from the east line of Lawler Street to Hardin Drive.
   7.   Murdock Street from Bancroft Street to Lawler Street.
   8.   Oak Drive from Hardin Drive to Lybrand Street.
   9.   Post Street from the west corporate line to the west line of Lawler
Street.
   10.   Stoneman Street from the west corporate line to the east line of
Reynolds Street.
   11.   W. Greene Street from Bancroft Street to the west line of Lawler
Street.
   12.   W. Tilden Street from the west corporate line to the west line of
Lawler Street.
   13.   W. Williams Street from the west corporate line to the west line of
Lawler Street.
65.02   STOP REQUIRED.
   Every driver of a vehicle shall stop in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Arthur F. Brandt Drive. Vehicles traveling north on Arthur F. Brandt
Drive shall stop at Wilson Street.
   2.   Coop Drive. Vehicles traveling east on Coop Drive shall stop at
intersection of access to the Wastewater Treatment Plant.
   3.   E. Greene Street. Vehicles traveling on E. Greene Street shall stop at
Maple Street.
   4.   E. Williams Street. Vehicles traveling on E. Williams Street shall stop
at Maple Street.
   5.   Front Street. Vehicles traveling east on Front Street shall stop at
Maple Street.
   6.   Front Street. Vehicles traveling west on Front Street shall stop at
Summer Street.
   7.   Grandview Drive. Vehicles traveling north on Grandview Drive shall stop
at Lull Street.
   8.   Grandview Drive. Vehicles traveling south on Grandview Drive shall stop
at Wilson Street.
   9.   Greene Street. Vehicles traveling west on Greene Street shall stop at
Bancroft Street.
   10.   Hardin Drive. Vehicles traveling on Hardin Drive shall stop at
Military Road.
   11.   J. F. Smith Drive. Vehicles traveling on J. F. Smith Drive shall stop
at North Maple Street.
   12.   Lawler Street. Vehicles traveling north on Lawler Street shall stop at
Military Road.
   13.   Lull Street. Vehicles traveling northeast on Lull Street shall stop at
Village Street.
   14.   Lybrand Street. Vehicles traveling southwest on Lybrand Street shall
stop at Maple Street.
   15.   Maple Street. Vehicles traveling south on the west side of the
softball complex shall stop at J. F. Smith Drive.
   16.   Mott Street. Vehicles traveling west on Mott Street shall stop at
Maple Street.
   17.   North Street. Vehicles traveling east on North Street shall stop at
Maple Street.
   18.   Oak Drive. Vehicles traveling on Oak Drive shall stop at Wilson
Street.
   19.   Oak Drive. Vehicles traveling south on Oak Drive shall stop at Hardin
Drive.
   20.   Park Street. Vehicles traveling north on Park Street shall stop at
Grandview Drive.
   21.   Park Street. Vehicles traveling south on Park Street shall stop at
Wilson Street.
   22.   Post Street. Vehicles traveling east on Post Street shall stop 200
feet west of Ogden Street and Post Street intersection.
   23.   Post Street. Vehicles traveling on Post Street shall stop at Bancroft
Street.
   24.   Post Street. Vehicles traveling west on Post Street shall stop at
Ogden Street.
   25.   Sherri Street. Vehicles traveling south on Sherri Street shall stop at
Wilson Street.
   26.   Springfield Drive. Vehicles traveling southwest on Springfield Drive
shall stop at Highway 18.
   27.   Stoneman Street. Vehicles traveling east on Stoneman Street shall stop
at Reynolds Street.
   28.   Stoneman Street. Vehicles traveling west on Stoneman Street shall stop
at the west corporate line street.
   29.   W. Williams Street. Vehicles traveling on W. Williams Street shall
stop at Ogden Street.
   30.   W. Williams Street. Vehicles traveling west on W. Williams Street
shall stop at Bancroft Street.
   31.   W. Williams Street. Vehicles traveling west on W. Williams Street
shall stop at the west corporate line street.
65.03   FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the following designated
four-way stop intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Intersection of Cheryl Street and Hill Street with Oak Drive.
   2.   Intersection of Tilden Street and Lawler Street.
   3.   Intersection of W. Post Street and Reynolds Street/W. Military Road.
65.04   YIELD REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall yield in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
- NONE -
65.05   SCHOOL STOPS.
At the following school crossing zones every driver of a vehicle approaching
said zone shall bring the vehicle to a full stop at a point 10 feet from the
approach side of the crosswalk marked by an authorized school stop sign and
thereafter proceed in a careful and prudent manner until the vehicle shall have
passed through such school crossing zone.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.249)
   1.   Tilden Steet at Ogden Street.
65.06   STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK.
The driver of a vehicle emerging from a private roadway, alley, driveway, or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk
area and thereafter shall proceed into the sidewalk area only when able to do
so without danger to pedestrian traffic and shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicular traffic on the street into which the vehicle is entering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.353)
65.07   STOP WHEN TRAFFIC IS OBSTRUCTED.
Notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed, no driver
shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient
space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the
vehicle.
65.08   PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-OF-WAY.  
Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver of a
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need be, to
so yield to a pedestrian or a person riding a bicycle crossing the roadway
within any marked crosswalk or within any unmarked crosswalk at an
intersection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.327)
CHAPTER 66
LOAD AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
 
66.01 Temporary Embargo                  66.03 Load Limits Upon Certain Streets
66.02 Permits for Excess Size and Weight 66.04 Load Limits on Bridges
 
66.01   TEMPORARY EMBARGO.
If the Council declares an embargo when it appears by reason of deterioration,
rain, snow or other climatic conditions that certain streets will be seriously
damaged or destroyed by vehicles weighing in excess of an amount specified by
the signs, no such vehicles shall be operated on streets so designated by such
signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471 and 472)
66.02   PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT.
The Police Chief may, upon application and good cause being shown, issue a
special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move a
vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight or load exceeding the
maximum specified by State law or the City over those streets or bridges named
in the permit which are under the jurisdiction of the City and for which the
City is responsible for maintenance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 321E.2)
66.03   LOAD LIMITS UPON CERTAIN STREETS.
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified on such signs at
any time upon any of the following streets or parts of streets:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 475)
   1.   On W. Military Road from Lawler Street to Post Street, there shall be
no vehicles with a gross weight exceeding 7,000 pounds.
66.04   LOAD LIMITS ON BRIDGES.
Where it has been determined that any City bridge has a capacity less than the
maximum permitted on the streets of the City, or on the street serving the
bridge, the Police Chief may cause to be posted and maintained signs on said
bridge and at suitable distances ahead of the entrances thereof to warn drivers
of such maximum load limits. No person shall drive upon said bridge any vehicle
weighing, loaded or unloaded, in excess of such posted limit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471)
CHAPTER 67
PEDESTRIANS
 
67.01 Walking in Street 67.03 Pedestrian Crossing
67.02 Hitchhiking       67.04 Use of Sidewalks
 
67.01   WALKING IN STREET.
Pedestrians shall at all times when walking on or along a street, walk on the
left side of the street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.326)
67.02   HITCHHIKING.
No person shall stand in the traveled portion of a street for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the driver of any private vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.331)
67.03   PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.328)
67.04   USE OF SIDEWALKS.
Where sidewalks are provided it is unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along
and upon an adjacent street.
CHAPTER 68
ONE-WAY TRAFFIC
68.01   ONE-WAY TRAFFIC REQUIRED.
Upon the following streets and alleys, vehicular traffic, other than permitted
cross traffic, shall move only in the indicated direction when appropriate
signs are in place.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[4])
- NONE -
CHAPTER 69
PARKING REGULATIONS
69.01 Park Adjacent to Curb             69.09 All Night Parking Prohibited
69.02 Parking on One-Way Streets        69.10 Oversize Vehicle Parking Limited
69.03 Angle Parking                     69.11 Parking Restricted
69.04 Manner of Angle Parking           69.12 Priority Snow Removal Route
69.05 Parking for Certain Purposes      69.13 Controlled Access Facilities
Illegal
69.06 Parking Prohibited                69.14 Parking Violations; Vehicles
                                        Unattended
69.07 Persons with Disabilities Parking 69.15 Presumption in Reference to
                                        Illegal Parking
69.08 No Parking Zones                  69.16 Parking Violations: Alternate
 
69.01   PARK ADJACENT TO CURB.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with
the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and
with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in the case of angle parking and
vehicles parked on the left-hand side of one-way streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.02   PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle on the left-hand side of a one-way
street other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction
of lawful traffic movement and with the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within
18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in
the case of angle parking.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.03   ANGLE PARKING.
Angle or diagonal parking is permitted only in the following locations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
   1.   E. Greene Street, on the north side, from Lawler Street to 83 feet east
of North Street.
   2.   E. Greene Street, on the south side, from Lawler Street to 237 feet
east of the alley.
   3.   E. Tilden Street, on the north side, from Lawler Street east to the
alley.
   4.   E. Tilden Street, on the south side, beginning 125 feet from the NW
corner of Block 2 Ellis and Co. 1st Addition and continuing eastward for 118
feet.
   5.   E. Williams Street, on the north and south sides, from Lawler Street
east to the alley.
   6.   Lawler Street, on the west side, from Tilden Street to Greene Street.
   7.   Ogden Street, on the west side, from W. Tilden Street to W. Post
Street.
   8.   Reynolds Street, on the east side, from W. Greene Street south to the
alley.
   9.   Reynolds Street, on the east side, from W. Tilden Street north to the
alley.
   10.   W. Greene Street, from Reynolds Street to Lawler Street, with the
parking angle reduced to 35° to facilitate backing into the lane of traffic on
said street.
   11.   W. Williams Street, on the south side, from Reynolds Street to Lawler
Street; and, on the north side, from Reynolds Street east to the alley.
   12.   Wilson Street, on the south side, from Park Street to the east line of
Grandview Drive extended.
69.04   MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
Upon those streets or portions of streets that have been signed or marked for
angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at an angle
to the curb or edge of the roadway or in the center of the roadway as indicated
by such signs and markings. No part of any vehicle or the load thereon, when
said vehicle is parked within a diagonal parking district, shall extend into
the roadway more than a distance of 16 feet when measured at right angles to
the adjacent curb or edge of roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.05   PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES ILLEGAL.
No person shall park a vehicle upon public property for more than 48 hours
unless otherwise limited under the provisions of this chapter or for any of the
following principal purposes:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   1.   Sale. Displaying such vehicle for sale.
   2.   Repairing. For lubricating, repairing, or commercial washing of such
vehicle except such repairs as are necessitated by an emergency.
   3.   Advertising. Displaying advertising.
   4.   Merchandise Sales. Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a
duly established marketplace or when authorized or licensed under this Code.
69.06   PARKING PROHIBITED.
No one shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
   1.   Crosswalk. On a crosswalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[5])
   2.   Center Parkway. On the center parkway or dividing area of any divided
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   3.   Mailboxes. Within 20 feet on either side of a mailbox that is so placed
and so equipped as to permit the depositing of mail from vehicles on the
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   4.   Sidewalks. On or across a sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[1])
   5.   Driveway. In front of a public or private driveway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[2])
   6.   Intersection. Within an intersection or within 10 feet of an
intersection of any street or alley.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[3])
   7.   Fire Hydrant. Within five feet of a fire hydrant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[4])
   8.   Stop Sign or Signal. Within 10 feet upon the approach to any flashing
beacon, stop or yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[6])
   9.   Railroad Crossing. Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing, except when parked parallel with such rail and not exhibiting a red
light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[8])
   10.   Fire Station. Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within 75 feet of said entrance when properly sign posted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[9])
   11.   Excavations. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or
obstruction when such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[10])
   12.   Double Parking. On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked
at the edge or curb of a street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[11])
   13.   Hazardous Locations. When, because of restricted visibility or when
standing or parked vehicles would constitute a hazard to moving traffic, or
when other traffic conditions require, the Council may cause curbs to be
painted with a yellow color and erect no parking or standing signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[13])
   14.   Churches, Nursing Homes, and Other Buildings. A space of 50 feet is
hereby reserved at the side of the street in front of any theatre, auditorium,
hotel having more than 25 sleeping rooms, hospital, nursing home, taxicab
stand, bus depot, church, or other building where large assemblages of people
are being held, within which space, when clearly marked as such, no motor
vehicle shall be left standing, parked or stopped except in taking on or
discharging passengers or freight, and then only for such length of time as is
necessary for such purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.360)
   15.   Alleys. No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than 10 feet of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person
shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property. The provisions of this
subsection do not apply to a vehicle parked in any alley that is 18 feet wide
or less, provided that said vehicle is parked to deliver goods or services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   16.   Ramps. In front of a curb cut or ramp which is located on public or
private property in a manner which blocks access to the curb cut or ramp.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[15])
   17.   Area Between Lot Line and Curb Line. That area of the public way not
covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and the curb line, where
curbing has been installed.
   18.   In More Than One Space. In any designated parking space so that any
part of the vehicle occupies more than one such space or protrudes beyond the
markings designating such space.
   19.   Boulevards. No person shall park a vehicle on a boulevard area in any
residential area except on paved area at an authorized curb cut. All gravel
parking areas with an authorized curb cut must be paved with concrete by
September 1, 2016. Deteriorated asphalt and concrete parking areas may be
repaired with asphalt or concrete.
      A.   Any person violating the parking prohibition shall be issued a
citation setting forth the nature of the violation that has occurred. The
citation shall state that the offender has 72 hours in which to respond to the
citation indicating admission or denial of the violation charged. A service fee
of $50.00 shall be assessed to the person served with the citation.
      B.   A violator of this subsection shall reimburse the City for any
damage to the curb caused by the violator. The violator shall also pay to the
City a fine equal to $10.00 per foot lineal measurement for the length of the
area of boulevard damaged by the violator.
69.07   PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.
The following regulations shall apply to the establishment and use of persons
with disabilities parking spaces:
   1.   Establishment. Persons with disabilities parking spaces shall be
established and designated in accordance with Chapter 321L of the Code of Iowa
and Iowa Administrative Code, 661-18. No unauthorized person shall establish
any on-street persons with disabilities parking space without first obtaining
Council approval.
   2.   Improper Use. The following uses of a persons with disabilities parking
space, located on either public or private property, constitute improper use of
a persons with disabilities parking permit, which is a violation of this Code
of Ordinances:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321L.4[2])
      A.   Use by an operator of a vehicle not displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit.
      B.   Use by an operator of a vehicle displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit but not being used by a person issued a permit or
being transported in accordance with Section 321L.2[1b] of the Code of Iowa.
      C.   Use by a vehicle in violation of the rules adopted under Section
321L.8 of the Code of Iowa.
   3.   Wheelchair Parking Cones. No person shall use or interfere with a
wheelchair parking cone in violation of the following:
      A.   A person issued a persons with disabilities parking permit must
comply with the requirements of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa when
utilizing a wheelchair parking cone.
      B.   A person shall not interfere with a wheelchair parking cone that is
properly placed under the provisions of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa.
69.08   NO PARKING ZONES.
No one shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any of the following specifically
designated no parking zones except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the direction of a peace officer or traffic
control signal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   1.   Arthur F. Brandt Drive adjacent to Lull’s Park from Wilson Street to
Hill Street.
   2.   Bancroft Street on either side at the intersection with W. Tilden
Street to a point 35 feet from the stop sign line.
   3.   Boody Street on either side at the intersection with W. Tilden Street
to a point 35 feet from the stop sign line.
   4.   Cheryl Street on the east side from Lybrand Street to Oak Street.
   5.   E. Greene Street on the south side from the designated diagonal parking
area to Lybrand Street.
   6.   E. Tilden Street on the south side from Summer Street to Lybrand
Street.
   7.   E. Williams Street on the south side from the alley east of Lawler
Street to Lybrand Street.
   8.   Hardin Drive on either side from Military Road to Oak Drive.
   9.   Lawler Street from Greene Street to north corporate line.
   10.   Lawler Street on the east side from Military Road to Tilden Street.
   11.   Lawler Street on the west side from Hardin Drive to Tilden Street.
   12.   Lybrand Street on both sides from Village Street to northeast
corporate line.
   13.   Lybrand Street on the north side from Maple Street to Village Street.
   14.   Maple Street on both sides from Military Road to Lybrand Street.
   15.   Maple Street on the east side from Greene Street to North Street.
   16.   Military Road on either side from Lawler Street to Hardin Drive.
   17.   Military Road on the south side from Post Street to Lawler Street.
   18.   Oak Drive on the east side from Hardin Drive to Wilson Street.
   19.   Oak Drive on the west side from Hardin Drive to Lybrand Street.
   20.   Ogden Street from Greene Street to Stoneman Street.
   21.   Ogden Street on either side at the intersection with W. Tilden Street
to a point 35 feet from the stop sign line;
   22.   Post Street on the south side from West Street to Lawler Street;
   23.   Reynolds Street on either side at the intersection with W. Tilden
Street to a point 35 feet from the stop sign line.
   24.   South Ogden on the east side from W. Post Street to W. Tilden Street.
   25.   Summer Street on the east side from Tilden Street to a point 100 feet
south of the intersection.
   26.   W. Greene Street on the north side from Bancroft Street to Ogden
Street.
   27.   W. Post Street on the north side from South Ogden Street to South
Boody.
   28.   West Street on either side at the intersection with W. Tilden Street
to a point 35 feet from the stop sign line.
   29.   W. Tilden Street on the north side from the west corporate line to
Lawler Street.
   30.   W. Tilden Street on the south side from the west corporate line to
Lawler Street.
   31.   Wilson Street on either side from Oak Drive to Arthur F. Brandt Drive.
   32.   Walnut Drive on the south side from the western edge of the driveway
at 540 Walnut Lane continuing to Lilac Lane on the east side to the southern
edge of the driveway at 402 Lilac Lane.
(Subsection 32 – Ord. 703-25 – Jun. 25 Supp.)
69.09   ALL NIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED.
   1.   No person, except physicians or other persons on emergency calls, shall
park a vehicle on any street or alley for a period of time longer than 30
minutes between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any day during the
period of time from November 1 to April 1.
   2.   No person, except physicians or other persons on emergency calls, shall
park a vehicle on the west side of South Ogden Street between Post and Tilden
Streets for a period of time longer than 30 minutes between the hours of 12:00
a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any day.
69.10   OVERSIZE VEHICLE PARKING LIMITED.
No person shall park a motor home, motor truck, trailer, semi-trailer, truck
tractor, boat or boat trailer or other motor vehicle with trailer attached in
violation of the following regulations. The provisions of this section shall
not apply to pickup, light delivery, or panel delivery trucks
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   1.   Business District. Excepting only when such vehicles are actually
engaged in the delivery or receiving of merchandise or cargo, no person shall
park or leave unattended such vehicle on any streets within the Business
District. When actually receiving or delivering merchandise or cargo such
vehicle shall be stopped or parked in a manner which will not interfere with
other traffic.
      A.   W. Greene Street from Lawler Street to Reynolds Street.
      B.   Lawler Street from Greene Street to Post Street.
   2.   Livestock. No such vehicle containing livestock, carcasses of dead
animals or parts or products of dead animals shall be parked on any street,
alley, or highway for a period of time of more than 30 minutes.
   3.   No person shall park any motor home, motor truck, trailer, semi-
trailer, truck tractor, boat or boat trailer or other motor vehicle with
trailer attached which exceeds 72 inches in width or 18 feet in length on any
street or alley between sunrise and sunset for a longer period than 60 minutes,
or between sunset and sunrise for a longer period than 30 minutes, except for
loading or unloading purposes, or while in the actual process of being loaded
or unloaded or making necessary minor repairs. Persons demonstrating a special
need for a longer period of parking for a limited time may request a temporary
waiver of this section from the Police Chief or their designee.
69.11   PARKING RESTRICTED.
   1.   No person except residents living along the street shall park a vehicle
on Post Street between Ogden Street and Boody Street between the hours of 7:30
a.m. and 3:00 p.m. on school days.
   2.   No person shall park a vehicle in the three spaces directly in front of
the Postville Child Learning Center on South Ogden Street for a period of time
longer than 10 minutes between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of any day.
   3.   No persons except residents of the Postville Community Housing Complex
who have obtained a permit from the Police Department shall park a vehicle on
the north side of E. Greene Street in the area adjoining Lot 1 of Lot 3 and Lot
2 of Lot 3 in the Northeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter (NE ¼ - SW ¼) of
Section 33, Township 96 North, Range 6 West of the 5th P.M., Allamakee County,
Iowa.
   4.   No person shall park a vehicle on Boody Street between the hours of 7:
00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. on school days.
69.12   PRIORITY SNOW REMOVAL ROUTE.
   1.   Whenever the Mayor or the Clerk or Administrator finds, on the basis of
falling snow, sleet, freezing rain or the forecast of accumulations of snow or
ice, that weather conditions have created or are likely to create hazardous
road and driving conditions which will impede or are likely to impede movement
of fire, health, police, emergency, or other vital vehicular traffic, the Mayor
or Clerk or Administrator may declare that snow removal on Priority One Streets
shall begin and prohibit parking or stopping of vehicles on designated Priority
One Snow Removal Routes. While the snow removal is in effect, no person shall
park, abandon, or leave unattended any vehicle upon any Priority One Snow
Removal Route or portion of such route. Each street designated as a Priority
One Snow Removal Route by the Council shall be marked with signs displaying the
words “No Parking During Snow Removal.”
   2.   The ban on parking on the Priority One Snow Removal Route shall
continue from its proclamation through the duration of the snow or ice storm
and until the proper authority issues notice that the snow removal on Priority
One Streets is at an end. The parking prohibition shall not go into effect
until two hours after the ban has been declared as described in this section,
and it shall terminate immediately upon announcement that snow removal on
Priority One Streets is at an end.
   3.   Priority One Streets in the City are as follows:
      A.   E. Greene Street between Lawler Street and Maple Street.
      B.   Hardin Drive from Highways 18 and 52 to east of the entrance to the
Good Samaritan Center.
      C.   Maple Street between East Greene Street and E. Tilden Street.
      D.   Oak Drive for its entire length from the intersection of Tilden
Street and Lybrand Street to Hardin Drive.
      E.   E. Tilden Street between Maple Street and Lybrand Street.
   4.   When it is declared that snow removal operations are to begin, it is
unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to impede or block traffic on the
designated Priority One Snow Removal Routes.
69.13   CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES.
Parking restrictions on controlled access facilities are as specified in
Chapter 140 of this Code of Ordinances.
69.14   PARKING VIOLATIONS: VEHICLE UNATTENDED.
When a vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the Traffic Code, and
the driver is not present, the notice of fine or citation as herein provided
shall be attached to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
69.15   PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
In any proceeding charging a standing or parking violation, a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred shall be raised by proof that:
   1.   Described Vehicle. The particular vehicle described in the information
was parked in violation of the Traffic Code; and
   2.   Registered Owner. The defendant named in the information was the
registered owner at the time in question.
69.16   PARKING VIOLATIONS: ALTERNATE.
Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, admitted violations of parking
restrictions imposed by this Code of Ordinances may be charged upon a simple
notice of a fine payable at the office of the Clerk. The simple notice of a
fine shall be in the amount of $20.00 for all violations except improper use of
a persons with disabilities parking permit. If such fine is not paid within 30
days, it shall be increased by $5.00. The simple notice of a fine for improper
use of a persons with disabilities parking permit is $100.00. Failure to pay
the simple notice of a fine shall be grounds for the filing of a complaint in
District Court.
CHAPTER 70
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
 
70.01 Arrest or Citation   70.03 Presumption in Reference to Illegal Parking
70.02 Scheduled Violations
 
70.01   ARREST OR CITATION.
Whenever a peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provision of the Traffic Code, such officer may:
   1.   Immediate Arrest. Immediately arrest such person and take such person
before a local magistrate; or
   2.   Issue Citation. Without arresting the person, prepare in quintuplicate
a combined traffic citation and complaint as adopted by the Iowa Commissioner
of Public Safety, or issue a uniform citation and complaint utilizing a State-
approved computerized device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.6 and 321.485)
70.02   SCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.
For violations of the Traffic Code that are designated by Section 805.8A of the
Code of Iowa to be scheduled violations, the scheduled fine for each of those
violations shall be as specified in Section 805.8A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.8 and 805.8A)
70.03   IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   1.   A peace officer is hereby authorized to remove, or cause to be removed,
a vehicle from a street, public alley, public parking lot, or highway to the
nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the City, under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
      A.   Disabled Vehicle. When a vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
      B.   Illegally Parked Vehicle. When any vehicle is left unattended and is
so illegally parked as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
      D.   Snow Removal. When any vehicle is left parked in violation of a ban
on parking during snow removal operations.
      E.   Parked Over Limited Time Period. When any vehicle is left parked for
a continuous period in violation of any limited parking time. If the owner can
be located, the owner shall be given an opportunity to remove the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   2.   Costs. In addition to the standard penalties provided, the owner or
driver of any vehicle impounded for the violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be required to pay the reasonable cost of towing and
storage.
CHAPTER 71
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT
 
71.01 Authority and Management         71.06 Notice of Automated Traffic
                                       Citation; Fines
71.02 Definitions                      71.07 Vehicle Owners Obligations
                                       Concerning An Automated Traffic Citation
71.03 Civil Fine for Automated Traffic 71.08 Contesting An Automated Traffic
Citations; No Reporting                Citation
71.04 Exemptions from Civil Fine for   71.09 Failure to Timely Pay or Challenge
Automated Traffic Citations            Automated Traffic Citation
71.05 Review of Detected Violation by
City Designee
 
71.01   AUTHORITY AND MANAGEMENT.
In accordance with its police powers, the City may deploy, erect, or cause to
have erected an automated traffic enforcement system for capturing images of
motor vehicles that violate traffic laws by failing to obey speed regulations
within the City. The Police Department shall retain supervisory control over
the system. The system may be managed by a private contractor that owns and
operates the requisite equipment. The contractor shall provide photographic or
video images of any potential violations to the Police Department to review
and, in the event the Police Department determines a vehicle was operated in
violation of the City’s traffic control ordinances, the Police Department shall
direct that a notice of automated traffic citation be issued to the vehicle
owner in accordance with this chapter.
71.02   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Automated traffic citation” means a notice of violation generated in
connection with the automated traffic enforcement system.
   2.   “Automated traffic enforcement contractor” means the company or entity,
if any, with which the City contracts to provide equipment or services in
connection with the automated traffic enforcement system.
   3.   “Automated traffic enforcement system” means an electronic system
consisting of a photographic, video, or electronic camera and a vehicle sensor
installed to work in conjunction with an official traffic controller or Police
Department employee to automatically produce photographs, video, or digital
images of each vehicle violating a speed restriction standard.
   4.   “Vehicle owner” means the person or entity identified by the State
Department of Transportation, or identified by any other state vehicle
registration office, as the registered owner of a vehicle detected violating a
traffic law by failing to obey speed regulations within the City.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event the State Department of
Transportation or any other state vehicle registration office identifies a
person or entity as the lessee of the vehicle, that lessee shall be the vehicle
owner for purposes of this chapter. In the event a State registration office
does not specify whether a person or entity listed on the registration for the
vehicle is the owner or the lessee of the vehicle, any person or entity listed
on that vehicle registration may be deemed the vehicle owner and held jointly
and severally responsible for a violation of this section.
71.03   CIVIL FINE FOR AUTOMATED TRAFFIC CITATIONS; NO REPORTING.
Unless an exemption applies, as set forth in Section
71.04, the following violations shall be subject to a civil fine:
   1.   If a vehicle is detected traveling at a speed above the posted limit,
the vehicle owner shall be subject to a civil fine as set forth below:
Speeding Violation                                      Civil Fine
11-20 miles per hour over the posted speed limit        $75.00
21-25 miles per hour over the posted speed limit        $100.00
26-30 miles per hour over the posted speed limit        $250.00
More than 31 miles per hour over the posted speed limit $500.00
Work Zone Violations (Code of Iowa § 321.1)            Civil Fine
11-20 miles per hour over the posted speed limit        $150.00
21-25 miles per hour over the posted speed limit        $200.00
26-30 miles per hour over the posted speed limit        $500.00
More than 31 miles per hour over the posted speed limit $1,000.00
 
   2.   In no event will an automated traffic citation be sent or reported to
the Iowa Department of Transportation or similar department of any other state
for the purpose of being added to the vehicle owner’s driving record.
71.04   EXEMPTIONS FROM CIVIL FINE FOR AUTOMATED TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
The following shall not be considered violations for purposes of the automated
traffic enforcement system:
   1.   The operator of the vehicle in question was issued a uniform traffic
citation for the violation in question pursuant to
Chapter 63 of this Code of Ordinances or Chapter 321 of the Code of Iowa.
   2.   The violation occurred at any time after the vehicle in question or its
state registration plates were reported to a law enforcement agency as having
been stolen, provided, however, the vehicle or its plates had not been
recovered by the vehicle owner at the time of the alleged violation.
   3.   The vehicle in question was an authorized emergency vehicle.
   4.   The foregoing list of exemptions from Section
71.03 shall not be construed as limiting the defenses available to challenge an
automated traffic citation or defend a municipal infraction.
71.05   REVIEW OF DETECTED VIOLATION BY CITY DESIGNEE.
Upon notification of a detected violation, the detected violation shall be
reviewed by a sworn City peace officer to determine whether a violation
occurred.
71.06   NOTICE OF AUTOMATED TRAFFIC CITATION; FINES.
Upon a review conducted pursuant to Section
71.05 confirming that a violation, as described in Section
71.03, occurred, a notice of an automated traffic citation will be mailed to
the vehicle owner for each such violation recorded by the automated traffic
enforcement system. The City or designated automated traffic enforcement
contractor shall mail the notice within 30 days after receiving information
about the vehicle owner. The notice shall include the name and address of the
vehicle owner; the vehicle make, if available and readily discernable; the
vehicle registration number; the violation alleged; the time, date, and
location of the alleged violation; the applicable fine; information for payment
of the assessed fine; information as to the manner and form in which the
automated traffic citation may be challenged; and that the basis of the notice
is a photographic or video record generated by an automated traffic enforcement
system.
71.07   VEHICLE OWNERS OBLIGATIONS CONCERNING AN AUTOMATED TRAFFIC CITATION.
Within 30 days from the date appearing at the top of a notice of automated
traffic citation sent to the vehicle owner, the vehicle owner shall either pay
the fee associated with the citation or challenge the citation, in accordance
with Section
71.08.
71.08   CONTESTING AN AUTOMATED TRAFFIC CITATION.
A vehicle owner may contest an automated traffic citation by submitting a
written challenge to the citation or requesting that a municipal infraction be
filed pursuant to Section 364.22 of the Code of Iowa. Any such written
challenge or request must be on a form specified by and available from the City
as indicated on the notice, and be sent to the City according to the
instructions on that form. Upon receipt of a written challenge, a peace officer
shall determine whether the citation should be rescinded. Within 30 days after
the City receives such a challenge, the City shall notify the vehicle owner
whether the challenge to the automated traffic citation is successful, in which
case, the citation shall be rescinded. Otherwise, the citation shall stand.
Thereafter, the City may seek voluntary payment or file the citation as a
municipal infraction against the vehicle owner, in accordance with Section
71.09.
71.09   FAILURE TO TIMELY PAY OR CHALLENGE AUTOMATED TRAFFIC CITATION.
If the vehicle owner of an automated traffic citation does not either pay the
fine by the due date stated on the original citation or successfully challenge
the citation as provided herein, the City may file a municipal infraction
against the vehicle owner in accordance with
Chapter 3 of this Code and Section 364.22 of the Code of Iowa, seeking judgment
for the applicable civil fine provided in Section
71.03 plus applicable State mandated filing fee and court costs. If judgment is
entered for the City in the municipal infraction proceeding, the City may,
subject to applicable law, pursue enforcement of the judgment together with
interest as permitted by law. Collection of that judgment may include referral
to the State Income Offset program administered by the Department of
Administrative Services, State Accounting Enterprise. Notwithstanding the
City’s right to file a municipal infraction, the City may first seek voluntary
payment of the fine by sending a written request for payment to the vehicle
owner or referring the matter to a private service agent to conduct collection
in accordance with all applicable law.
CHAPTER 75
ATVS, UTVS, AND SNOWMOBILES
 
75.01 Purpose                    75.06 Negligence
75.02 Definitions                75.07 Accident Reports
75.03 General Regulations        75.08 Hours of Operation
75.04 Operation of Snowmobiles   75.09 Speed Limit
75.05 Operation of ATVs and UTVs
 
75.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of all-terrain
vehicles, off-road utility vehicles, and snowmobiles within the City.
75.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “All-terrain vehicle” or “ATV” means a motorized vehicle, with not less
than three and not more than six non-highway tires, that is limited in engine
displacement to less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to
less than 1,200 pounds and that has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled
by the operator and handlebars for steering control.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   2.   “Off-road motorcycle” means a two-wheeled motor vehicle that has a seat
or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering
control and that is intended by the manufacturer for use on natural terrain.
“Off-road motorcycle” includes a motorcycle that was originally issued a
certificate of title and registered for highway use under Chapter 321 of the
Code of Iowa, but which contains design features that enable operation over
natural terrain. An operator of an off-road motorcycle is also subject to the
provisions of this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   3.   “Off-road utility vehicle” or “UTV” means a motorized vehicle, with not
less than four and not more than eight non-highway tires or rubberized tracks,
that has a seat that is of bucket or bench design, not intended to be straddled
by the operator, and a steering wheel or control levers for control. “Off-road
utility vehicle” or “UTV” includes the following vehicles:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
      A.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 1” includes vehicles with a total
dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less and a width of 50 inches or less.
      B.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 2” includes vehicles, other than
Type 1 vehicles, with a total dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less and a width of
65 inches or less.
      C.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 3” includes vehicles with a total
dry weight of more than 2,000 pounds or a width of more than 65 inches, or
both.
An operator of an UTV is also subject to the provisions of this chapter
governing the operation of ATVs.
   4.   “Snowmobile” means a motorized vehicle that weighs less than 1,000
pounds, that uses sled-type runners or skis, endless belt-type tread with a
width of 48 inches or less, or any combination of runners, skis, or tread, and
is designed for travel on snow or ice. “Snowmobile” does not include an all-
terrain vehicle that has been altered or equipped with runners, skis, belt-type
tracks, or treads.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.1)
75.03   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
No person shall operate an ATV, off-road motorcycle, or off-road utility
vehicle within the City in violation of Chapter 321I of the Code of Iowa or a
snowmobile within the City in violation of the provisions of Chapter 321G of
the Code of Iowa or in violation of rules established by the Natural Resource
Commission of the Department of Natural Resources governing their registration,
equipment and manner of operation.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 321G and Ch. 321I)
75.04   OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES.
   1.   The operators of snowmobiles shall comply with the following
restrictions as to where they may be operated within the City:
      A.   Unplowed Streets. Snowmobiles shall be operated only upon streets
which have not been plowed during the snow season and on any other streets
except any street which is a State or federal highway.
   2.   Exceptions. Snowmobiles may be operated on prohibited streets only
under the following circumstances:
      A.   Emergencies. Snowmobiles may be operated on any street in an
emergency during the period of time when and at locations where snow upon the
roadway renders travel by conventional motor vehicles impractical.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4c])
      B.   Direct Crossing. Snowmobiles may make a direct crossing of a
prohibited street provided all of the following occur:
         (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing;
         (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
street;
         (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all on-coming traffic that
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
         (4)   In crossing a divided street, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such street with another street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[2])
   3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on an
operating railroad right-of-way. A snowmobile may be driven directly across a
railroad right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any
other provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.13[1h])
   4.   Trails. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on all-terrain vehicle trails
except where so designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4f])
   5.   Parks and Other City Land. Snowmobiles shall not be operated in any
park, playground, or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City. A snowmobile shall not be operated on any City land
without a snow cover of at least one-tenth of one inch.
   6.   Sidewalk or Parking. Snowmobiles shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking” except for
purposes of crossing the same to a public street upon which operation is
authorized by this chapter.
75.05   OPERATION OF ATVS AND UTVS.
The operators of ATVs and UTVs shall comply with the following restrictions as
to where ATVs and UTVs may be operated within the City:
   1.   Streets. ATVs and UTVs may be operated on roadways or highways in
accordance with Section 321.234A of the Code of Iowa. A City may regulate the
operation of registered ATVs and UTVs and may designate streets under the
jurisdiction of the City within its corporate limits, and two-lane primary and
secondary road extensions in the City, which may be used for the operation of
such vehicles. In designating such streets, the City may authorize ATVs and
UTVs to stop at service stations or convenience stores along a designated
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[1 and 3])
   2.   Trails. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated on snowmobile trails except
where designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[4])
   3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated on an
operating railroad right-of-way. An ATV or UTV may be driven directly across a
railroad right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any
other provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.14[1h])
   4.   Parks and Other City Land. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated in any
park, playground, or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City.
   5.   Sidewalk or Parking. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated upon the
public sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and
the sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking.”
   6.   Direct Crossing. An ATV or UTV may make a direct crossing of a highway
that is not part of the interstate road system provided all of the following
occur:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[5])
      A.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing.
      B.   The ATV or UTV is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the highway.
      C.   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard.
      D.   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another public street or highway.
      E.   The crossing is made from a street, roadway, or highway on which the
ATV or UTV is authorized to operate to a street, roadway, or highway on which
such vehicle is authorized to operate.
75.06   NEGLIGENCE.
The owner and operator of an ATV, UTV, or snowmobile are liable for any injury
or damage occasioned by the negligent operation of the ATV, UTV, or snowmobile.
The owner of an ATV, UTV, or snowmobile shall be liable for any such injury or
damage only if the owner was the operator of the ATV, UTV, or snowmobile at the
time the injury or damage occurred or if the operator had the owner’s consent
to operate the ATV, UTV, or snowmobile at the time the injury or damage
occurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.18 and 321I.19)
75.07   ACCIDENT REPORTS.
Whenever an ATV, UTV, or snowmobile is involved in an accident resulting in
injury or death to anyone or property damage amounting to $1,500.00 or more,
either the operator or someone acting for the operator shall immediately notify
a law enforcement officer and shall file an accident report, in accordance with
State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.10 and 321I.11)
75.08   HOURS OF OPERATION.  
No ATV, UTV, or snowmobile shall be operated in the City between the hours of
12:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. except for emergency situations or for loading and
unloading from a transport trailer.
75.09   SPEED LIMIT.  
An ATV, UTV, or snowmobile shall not be operated within the City at a speed in
excess of 15 MPH.
CHAPTER 76
BICYCLE REGULATIONS
 
76.01 Scope of Regulations            76.08 Riding on Sidewalks
76.02 Traffic Code Applies            76.09 Towing
76.03 Double Riding Restricted        76.10 Improper Riding
76.04 Two Abreast Limit               76.11 Parking
76.05 Speed                           76.12 Equipment Requirements
76.06 Emerging From Alley or Driveway 76.13 Special Penalty
76.07 Carrying Articles
 
76.01   SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
These regulations shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street or
upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to
those exceptions stated herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.02   TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by the laws of the State declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or
by the Traffic Code of the City applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except
as to those provisions that by their nature can have no application. Whenever
such person dismounts from a bicycle, the person shall be subject to all
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234)
76.03   DOUBLE RIDING RESTRICTED.
A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent and
regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons
at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234[3 and 4])
76.04   TWO ABREAST LIMIT.
Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles. All bicycles ridden on the roadway shall be kept to the right and
shall be operated as near as practicable to the right-hand edge of the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.05   SPEED.
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.06   EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall,
upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk or
sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.07   CARRYING ARTICLES.
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article that
prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.08   RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
The following provisions apply to riding bicycles on sidewalks:
   1.   Business District. No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk
within the Business District, as defined in Section 60.02(1) of this Code of
Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
   2.   Other Locations. When signs are erected on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, no person shall
disobey the signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
   3.   Yield Right-of-Way. Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.09   TOWING.
It is unlawful for any person riding a bicycle to be towed or to tow any other
vehicle upon the streets of the City unless the vehicle is manufactured for
such use.
76.10   IMPROPER RIDING.
No person shall ride a bicycle in an irregular or reckless manner such as
zigzagging, stunting, speeding, or otherwise so as to disregard the safety of
the operator or others.
76.11   PARKING.
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.12   EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
Every person riding a bicycle shall be responsible for providing and using
equipment as provided herein:
   1.   Lamps Required. Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front emitting a white light visible from a
distance of at least 300 feet to the front and with a lamp on the rear
exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 300 feet to the rear, except
that a red reflector on the rear, of a type that is visible from all distances
from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper
beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle, may be used in lieu of a rear light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.397)
   2.   Brakes Required. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake that will
enable the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean
pavement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.13   SPECIAL PENALTY.
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter may, in lieu of the
scheduled fine for bicyclists or standard penalty provided for violations of
the Code of Ordinances, have their bicycle impounded by the City for not less
than five days plus a $10.00 fine for the first offense, 10 days plus a $25.00
fine for a second offense, and 30 days plus a $50.00 fine for a third offense.
CHAPTER 77
SKATEBOARDS AND SKATES
 
77.01 Scope of Regulations 77.04 Restricted Areas
77.02 Traffic Code         77.05 Yield to Pedestrians
77.03 Speed                77.06 Special Penalty
 
77.01   SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
The provisions of this chapter apply whenever a skateboard is ridden or roller
skates or in-line skates are used upon any street or sidewalk in the City.
77.02   TRAFFIC CODE.
Every person riding a skateboard or using roller skates or in-line skates upon
a roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by the laws of the State or the
Traffic Code contained in this Code of Ordinances, except as to those
provisions which by their nature can have no application.
77.03   SPEED.
No person shall operate a skateboard or roller skates or in-line skates at a
speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then
existing.
77.04   RESTRICTED AREAS.
No skateboards shall be ridden or roller skates or in-line skates used at any
time on the following streets or sidewalks:
   1.   In the roadway of U.S. Highways 18 and 52.
   2.   In the roadway of Iowa Highway 51.
   3.   In the roadway of Lybrand Street.
   4.   In the roadway of Greene Street, and on the sidewalks along Greene
Street, between Reynolds Street and Lawler Street.
   5.   In the roadway of Lawler Street and on the sidewalks along Lawler
Street, between Post Street and Greene Street.
77.05   YIELD TO PEDESTRIANS.
Whenever any person is riding a skateboard or using roller skates or in-line
skates upon a street or sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to
any pedestrian.
77.06   SPECIAL PENALTY.
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter may, in lieu of the
standard penalty provided for violations of this Code of Ordinances, suffer
their skateboard or roller skates or in-line skates to be impounded for five
days for the first offense, 10 days for the second offense and 30 days for the
third offense.
CHAPTER 78
GOLF CARTS
 
78.01 Purpose                           78.05 Hours
78.02 Definition                        78.06 Negligence
78.03 General Regulations               78.07 Accident Reports
78.04 Operation of Golf Carts Permitted
 
78.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to permit the operation of golf carts on streets
in the City as authorized by Section 321.247 of the Code of Iowa. This chapter
applies whenever a golf cart is operated on any street or alley.
78.02   DEFINITION.
“Golf cart” means a motorized vehicle manufactured in compliance with the
national highway and traffic safety administration standards for low-speed
vehicles in 49 C.F.R. §571.500, i.e. a four- or three-wheeled motor vehicle,
other than a truck, whose speed attainable in one mile is more than 20 miles
per hour and not more than 25 miles per hour on a paved level surface.
78.03   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   1.   The operation of golf carts is allowed on City streets by persons over
the age of 18, possessing a valid driver’s license. The golf carts shall be
equipped with a slow-moving vehicle sign, a bicycle safety flag, with adequate
brakes, and shall meet any other safety requirements imposed by the City and
the State. Golf carts shall be registered with the City annually and proof of
insurance must be shown at the time of registration. Each golf cart operated on
City streets shall have attached to the right rear of the golf cart a special
permit obtained from the City Administrator at an annual fee of $50.00.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.247 and 321I.10[3])
   2.   No person shall operate a golf cart in violation of the following
requirements, or any other such requirements as imposed by the City or the
State:
      A.   Operation shall not exceed a rate of speed greater than reasonable
or proper under all existing circumstances and in no event shall ever exceed 35
MPH.
      B.   Operation shall not be in a careless, reckless, or negligent manner
so as to endanger the person or property of another or to cause injury or
damage thereto.
      C.   No person shall operate the vehicle while under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or narcotics or habit-forming drugs.
      D.   No person shall operate the vehicle without a lighted headlight and
taillight at such times when conditions provide insufficient lighting to render
clearly discernible persons and vehicles at a distance of 500 feet ahead.
      E.   A person shall not operate or ride the vehicle with a firearm in the
person’s possession.
      F.   A person shall not operate the vehicle with more persons on the
vehicle than it was designed to carry.
      G.   Persons operating golf carts on the City streets shall, if installed
by the manufacturer, use turn signals and brake lights to indicate turns and
stopping and wear seat belts.
78.04   OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS PERMITTED.
The operators of golf carts shall comply with the following restrictions as to
where golf carts may be operated within the City:
   1.   Streets. Golf carts may be operated on all City streets except any
street which is a State or federal highway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.247 and 321I.10[3])
   2.   Direct Crossing. Golf carts are allowed to cross a City street which is
a State or federal highway provided:
      A.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
      B.   The golf cart is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
street;
      C.   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
      D.   In crossing a divided street, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such street with another street.
   3.   Railroad Right-of Way. Golf carts shall not be operated on an operating
railroad right-of-way. A golf cart may be driven directly across a railroad
right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any other
provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
   4.   Sidewalk or Boulevard. Golf carts shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “boulevard” except for
purposes of crossing the same to a public street upon which operation is
authorized by this chapter.
   5.   Right to Right. All operators of golf carts shall ride as near the
right-hand side of the traveled portion of the street or alley as practicable,
exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the
same direction, and shall ride in the direction of normal traffic.
   6.   Near Church, School, or Funeral Home. Operation is prohibited at any
time in the immediate vicinity of a church or funeral parlor if services are
being held or in the immediate vicinity of a school, if school is in session.
78.05   HOURS.
Golf carts may operate only from sunrise to sunset.
78.06   NEGLIGENCE.
The owner and operator of a golf cart is liable for any injury or damage
occasioned by the negligent operation of the golf cart.
78.07   ACCIDENT REPORTS.
Whenever a golf cart is involved in an accident resulting in injury or death to
anyone or property damage amounting to $1,000.00 or more, either operator or
someone acting for the operator shall immediately notify a law enforcement
officer and shall file an accident report within 48 hours, in accordance with
State law and the requirements of the City as stated herein.
CHAPTER 80
ABANDONED VEHICLES
 
80.01 Definitions                       80.06 Disposal of Abandoned Vehicles
80.02 Authority to Take Possession of   80.07 Disposal of Totally Inoperable
Abandoned Vehicles                      Vehicles
80.03 Notice by Mail                    80.08 Proceeds from Sales
80.04 Reclamation of Abandoned Vehicles 80.09 Duties of Demolisher
80.05 Fees for Impoundment
 
80.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[1] and Sec. 321.90)
   1.   “Abandoned vehicle” means any of the following:
      A.   A vehicle that has been left unattended on public property for more
than 24 hours and lacks current registration plates or two or more wheels or
other parts which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
      B.   A vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for more
than 24 hours.
      C.   A vehicle that has been unlawfully parked or placed on private
property without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property
for more than 24 hours.
      D.   A vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of a police
authority and has not been reclaimed for a period of 10 days. However, a police
authority may declare the vehicle abandoned within the 10-day period by
commencing the notification process.
      E.   Any vehicle parked on the highway determined by a police authority
to create a hazard to other vehicle traffic.
      F.   A vehicle that has been impounded pursuant to Section 321J.4B of the
Code of Iowa by order of the court and whose owner has not paid the impoundment
fees after notification by the person or agency responsible for carrying out
the impoundment order.
   2.   “Demolisher” means a person licensed under Chapter 321H of the Code of
Iowa whose business it is to convert a vehicle to junk, processed scrap, or
scrap metal, or otherwise to wreck, or dismantle vehicles.
   3.   “Garage keeper” means any operator of a parking place or establishment,
motor vehicle storage facility, or establishment for the servicing, repair, or
maintenance of motor vehicles.
   4.   “Police authority” means the Iowa State Patrol or any law enforcement
agency of a county or city.
80.02   AUTHORITY TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
A police authority, upon the authority’s own initiative or upon the request of
any other authority having the duties of control of highways or traffic, shall
take into custody an abandoned vehicle on public property and may take into
custody any abandoned vehicle on private property. The police authority may
employ its own personnel, equipment, and facilities or hire a private entity,
equipment, and facilities for the purpose of removing, preserving, storing, or
disposing of abandoned vehicles. A property owner or other person in control of
private property may employ a private entity that is a garage keeper to dispose
of an abandoned vehicle, and the private entity may take into custody the
abandoned vehicle without a police authority’s initiative. If a police
authority employs a private entity to dispose of abandoned vehicles, the police
authority shall provide the private entity with the names and addresses of the
registered owners, all lienholders of record, and any other known claimant to
the vehicle or the personal property found in the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[2])
80.03   NOTICE BY MAIL.
   1.   A police authority or private entity that takes into custody an
abandoned vehicle shall send notice by certified mail that the vehicle has been
taken into custody, no more than 20 days after taking custody of the vehicle.
Notice shall be sent to the last known address of record of the last known
registered owner of the vehicle, all lienholders of record, and any other known
claimant to the vehicle.
   2.   Notice shall be deemed given when mailed. The notice shall include all
of the following:
      A.   A description of the year, make, model and vehicle identification
number of the vehicle.
      B.   The location of the facility where the vehicle is being held.
      C.   Information for the persons receiving the notice of their right to
reclaim the vehicle and personal property contained therein within 10 days
after the effective date of the notice. Persons may reclaim the vehicle or
personal property upon payment of all towing, preservation, and storage charges
resulting from placing the vehicle in custody and upon payment of the costs of
the notice required pursuant to this section.
      D.   A statement that failure of the owner, lienholders, or claimants to
exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
time provided shall be deemed a waiver by the owner, lienholders, and claimants
of all right, title, claim, and interest in the vehicle or personal property.
      E.   A statement that failure to reclaim the vehicle or personal property
is deemed consent for the police authority or private entity to sell the
vehicle at a public auction or dispose of the vehicle to a demolisher and to
dispose of the personal property by sale or destruction.
   3.   If the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a private entity
without a police authority’s initiative, the notice shall state that the
private entity may claim a garage keeper’s lien as described in Section 321.90,
Subsection 1, of the Code of Iowa, and may proceed to sell or dispose of the
vehicle.
   4.   If the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a police authority
or by a private entity hired by a police authority, the notice shall state that
any person claiming rightful possession of the vehicle or personal property who
disputes the planned disposition of the vehicle or property by the police
authority or private entity, or of the assessment of fees and charges provided
by this section, may ask for an evidentiary hearing before the police authority
to contest those matters.
   5.   If the persons receiving notice do not ask for a hearing or exercise
their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the 10-day
reclaiming period, the owner, lienholders, or claimants shall no longer have
any right, title, claim, or interest in or to the vehicle or the personal
property.
   6.   A court in any case in law or equity shall not recognize any right,
title, claim, or interest of the owner, lienholders, or claimants after the
expiration of the 10-day reclaiming period.
   7.   If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the
identities and addresses of the last registered owner and all lienholders,
notice by one publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the area
where the vehicle was abandoned shall be sufficient to meet all requirements of
notice under Subsection 2 of this section. The published notice may contain
multiple listings of abandoned vehicles, but shall be published within the same
time requirements and contain the same information as prescribed for mailed
notice in Subsection 2 of this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3])
80.04   RECLAMATION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
Prior to driving an abandoned vehicle away from the premises, a person who
received (or who is reclaiming the vehicle on behalf of a person who received)
notice under Section
80.03 shall present to the police authority or private entity, as applicable,
the person’s valid driver’s license and proof of financial liability coverage
as provided in Section 321.20B of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.05   FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
The owner, lienholder, or claimant shall pay all towing and storage fees as
established by the storage facility, whereupon the vehicle shall be released.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.06   DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
If an abandoned vehicle has not been reclaimed as provided herein, the police
authority or private entity shall make a determination as to whether or not the
motor vehicle should be sold for use upon the highways, and shall dispose of
the motor vehicle in accordance with State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.07   DISPOSAL OF TOTALLY INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
The City or any person upon whose property or in whose possession is found any
abandoned motor vehicle, or any person being the owner of a motor vehicle whose
title certificate is faulty, lost, or destroyed, may dispose of such motor
vehicle to a demolisher for junk, without a title and without notification
procedures, if such motor vehicle lacks an engine or two or more wheels or
other structural part which renders the vehicle totally inoperable. The police
authority shall give the applicant a certificate of authority. The applicant
shall then apply to the County Treasurer for a junking certificate and shall
surrender the certificate of authority in lieu of the certificate of title.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[2e])
80.08   PROCEEDS FROM SALES.
Proceeds from the sale of any abandoned vehicle shall be applied to the expense
of auction, cost of towing, preserving, storing, and notification required, in
accordance with State law. Any balance shall be held for the owner of the motor
vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days, and then shall be deposited in the
State Road Use Tax Fund. Where the sale of any vehicle fails to realize the
amount necessary to meet costs the police authority shall apply for
reimbursement from the Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.09   DUTIES OF DEMOLISHER.
Any demolisher who purchases or otherwise acquires an abandoned motor vehicle
for junk shall junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or otherwise demolish such motor
vehicle. A demolisher shall not junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or demolish a
vehicle until the demolisher has obtained the junking certificate issued for
the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[3a])
CHAPTER 81
RAILROAD REGULATIONS
 
81.01 Definitions         81.03 Crossing Maintenance
81.02 Obstructing Streets 81.04 Speed
 
81.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Operator” means any individual, partnership, corporation, or other
association that owns, operates, drives, or controls a railroad train.
   2.   “Railroad train” means an engine or locomotive, with or without cars
coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)
81.02   OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
Operators shall not operate any train in such a manner as to prevent vehicular
use of any highway, street, or alley for a period of time in excess of 10
minutes except:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 327G.32)
   1.   Comply with Signals. When necessary to comply with signals affecting
the safety of the movement of trains.
   2.   Avoid Striking. When necessary to avoid striking any object or person
on the track.
   3.   Disabled. When the train is disabled.
   4.   Safety Regulations. When necessary to comply with governmental safety
regulations including, but not limited to, speed ordinances and speed
regulations.
   5.   In Motion. When the train is in motion except while engaged in
switching operations.
   6.   No Traffic. When there is no vehicular traffic waiting to use the
crossing.
An employee is not guilty of a violation of this section if the employee’s
action was necessary to comply with the direct order or instructions of a
railroad corporation or its supervisors. Guilt is then with the railroad
corporation.
81.03   CROSSING MAINTENANCE.
Operators shall construct and maintain good, sufficient, and safe crossings
over any street traversed by their rails.
(Bourett vs. Chicago and N.W. Ry. 152 Iowa 579, 132 N.W. 973 [1943])
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.11)
81.04   SPEED.
It is unlawful to operate any railroad train through any street crossing within
the platted areas of the City at a speed greater than 45 MPH.
(Girl vs. United States R. Admin., 194 Iowa 1382, 189 N.W. 834, [1923])
CHAPTER 90
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
90.01 Definitions                   90.11 Installation or Replacement of Water
                                    Service Pipe
90.02 Superintendent’s Duties     90.12 Responsibility for Water Service Pipe
90.03 Mandatory Connections         90.13 Failure to Maintain
90.04 Abandoned Connections         90.14 Curb Valve
90.05 Permit                        90.15 Interior Valve
90.06 Fee for Permit                90.16 Inspection and Approval
90.07 Compliance with Plumbing Code 90.17 Completion by the City
90.08 Plumber Required              90.18 Shutting Off Water Supply
90.09 Excavations                   90.19 Operation of Curb Valve and Hydrants
90.10 Tapping Mains                 90.20 Service Outside City Limits
 
90.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in the chapters in this Code of
Ordinances pertaining to the Water Service System:
   1.   “Combined service account” means a customer service account for the
provision of two or more utility services.
   2.   “Customer” means, in addition to any person receiving water service
from the City, the owner of the property served, and as between such parties
the duties, responsibilities, liabilities, and obligations hereinafter imposed
shall be joint and several.
   3.   “Superintendent” means the Public Works Director of the City water
system or any duly authorized assistant, agent, or representative.
   4.   “Water main” means a water supply pipe provided for public or community
use.
   5.   “Water service pipe” means the pipe from the water main to the building
served.
   6.   “Water system” or “water works” means all public facilities for
securing, collecting, storing, pumping, treating, and distributing water.
90.02   SUPERINTENDENT’S DUTIES.
The Superintendent shall supervise the installation of water service pipes and
their connection to the water main and enforce all regulations pertaining to
water services in the City in accordance with this chapter. This chapter shall
apply to all replacements of existing water service pipes as well as to new
ones. The Superintendent shall make such rules, not in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter, as may be needed for the detailed operation of the
water system, subject to the approval of the Council. In the event of an
emergency the Superintendent may make temporary rules for the protection of the
system until due consideration by the Council may be had.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
90.03   MANDATORY CONNECTIONS.
The owners of any houses, buildings or structures used for human occupancy,
employment or use, situated within the City and abutting on any street, alley
or right-of-way in which there is located a public water main are hereby
required to connect such facilities to the City’s public water system in
accordance with the provisions of these Water Service chapters within 90 days
after the date of official notice to do so, provided that said public water
main is located within 200 feet of the property line of such owner.
90.04   ABANDONED CONNECTIONS.
When an existing water service is abandoned or a service is renewed with a new
tap in the main, all abandoned connections with the mains shall be turned off
at the corporation stop and made absolutely watertight.
90.05   PERMIT.
Before any person makes a connection with the public water system, a written
permit must be obtained from the City. The application for the permit shall
include a legal description of the property, the name of the property owner,
the name and address of the person who will do the work, and the general uses
of the water. If the proposed work meets all the requirements of this chapter
and if all fees required under this chapter have been paid, the permit shall be
issued. Work under any permit must be completed within 60 days after the permit
is issued, except that when such time period is inequitable or unfair due to
conditions beyond the control of the person making the application, an
extension of time within which to complete the work may be granted. The permit
may be revoked at any time for any violation of these chapters.
90.06   FEE FOR PERMIT.
Before any permit is issued, the person who makes the application shall pay
$25.00 for a residential permit or $75.00 for a commercial permit to the Clerk
to cover the cost of issuing the permit and supervising, regulating, and
inspection of the work.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
90.07   COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE.
The installation of any water service pipe and any connection with the water
system shall comply with all pertinent and applicable provisions, whether
regulatory, procedural, or enforcement provisions, of the State Plumbing Code.
90.08   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installations of water service pipes and connections to the water system
shall be made by a State-licensed plumber.
90.09   EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required in making a connection
shall be performed in accordance with the State Plumbing Code and the
provisions of
Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
90.10   TAPPING MAINS.
All taps into water mains shall be made by or under the direct supervision of
the Superintendent and in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Independent Services. No more than one house, building, or premises
shall be supplied from one tap unless special written permission is obtained
from the Superintendent and unless provision is made so that each house,
building, or premises may be shut off independently of the other.
   2.   Sizes and Location of Taps. All mains six inches or less in diameter
shall receive no larger than a three-fourths inch tap. All mains of over six
inches in diameter shall receive no larger than a one-inch tap. Where a larger
connection than a one-inch tap is desired, two or more small taps or saddles
shall be used, as the Superintendent shall order. All taps in the mains shall
be made in the top half of the pipe, at least 18 inches apart. No main shall be
tapped nearer than two feet of the joint in the main.
   3.   Corporation Stop. A brass corporation stop, of the pattern and weight
approved by the Superintendent, shall be inserted in every tap in the main. The
corporation stop in the main shall be of the same size as the service pipe.
   4.   Location Record. An accurate and dimensional sketch showing the exact
location of the tap shall be filed with the Superintendent in such form as the
Superintendent shall require.
90.11   INSTALLATION OR REPLACEMENT OF WATER SERVICE PIPE.
Where old lead water lines are uncovered and discovered, or where new water
service lines are laid from the main to the meter setting, the pipes shall be
type K copper tubing, approved ductile cast iron, or plastic tubing approved by
the Superintendent in writing. Said tubing shall have a PSI rating greater than
160 PSI.
All newly laid iron ductile and plastic water service lines shall be installed
with tracer wire approved by the Superintendent. Pipe must be laid sufficiently
waving, and to such depth, as to prevent rupture from settlement or freezing.
No water service pipe shall be less than ¾-inch diameter.
90.12   RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER SERVICE PIPE.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the water service pipe from the main to the building served
shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss
or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation or
maintenance of said water service pipe.
90.13   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
When any portion of the water service pipe which is the responsibility of the
property owner becomes defective or creates a nuisance and the owner fails to
correct such nuisance, the City may do so and assess the costs thereof to the
property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a and h])
90.14   CURB VALVE.
There shall be installed within the public right-of-way a main shut-off valve
on the water service pipe of a pattern approved by the Superintendent. The
shut-off valve shall be constructed to be visible and even with the pavement or
ground.
90.15   INTERIOR VALVE.
There shall be installed a shut-off valve on every service pipe inside the
building as close to the entrance of the pipe within the building as possible
and so located that the water can be shut off conveniently. Where one service
pipe supplies more than one customer within the building, there shall be
separate valves for each such customer so that service may be shut off for one
without interfering with service to the others.
90.16   INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
All water service pipes and their connections to the water system must be
inspected and approved in writing by the Superintendent before they are
covered, and the Superintendent shall keep a record of such approvals. If the
Superintendent refuses to approve the work, the plumber or property owner must
proceed immediately to correct the work. Every person who uses or intends to
use the municipal water system shall permit the Superintendent to enter the
premises to inspect or make necessary alterations or repairs at all reasonable
hours and on proof of authority.
90.17   COMPLETION BY THE CITY.
Should any excavation be left open or only partly refilled for 24 hours after
the water service pipe is installed and connected with the water system, or
should the work be improperly done, the City shall have the right to finish or
correct the work, and the Council shall assess the costs to the property owner
or the plumber. If the plumber is assessed, the plumber must pay the costs
before receiving another permit. If the property owner is assessed, such
assessment may be collected with and in the same manner as general property
taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a and h])
90.18   SHUTTING OFF WATER SUPPLY.
After following the procedures set out in Section
92.05, the Superintendent may shut off the supply of water to any customer
because of any substantial violation of this chapter, valid regulation under
Section
90.02 that is not being contested in good faith, or for any of the following
reasons:
   1.   Misrepresentation. Misrepresentation in the application as to the
property or fixtures to be supplied or use to be made of water.
   2.   Failure to Report. Failure to report to the City additions to the
property or fixtures to the supplies or additional use to be made of water.
   3.   Resale of Water. Resale or giving away of water.
   4.   Waste or Misuse. Waste or misuse of water due to improper or imperfect
service pipes or fixtures, or failure to keep same in suitable state of repair.
   5.   Tampering. Tampering with meter, meter seal, service, or valves, or
permitting such tampering by others.
   6.   Cross Connection. Connection, cross connection or permitting the same,
of any separate water supply to premises which receive water from the City.
The supply shall not be turned on again until all violations have been
corrected and the Superintendent has ordered the water to be turned on.
90.19   OPERATION OF CURB VALVE AND HYDRANTS.
It is unlawful for any person except the Superintendent to turn water on at the
curb valve, and no person, unless specifically authorized by the City, shall
open or attempt to draw water from any fire hydrant for any purpose whatsoever.
90.20   SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
Except by express written agreement of the Council, no municipal water utility
service shall be extended to any new or additional premises, building or user
located outside the corporate limits of the City. Also, except by express
written agreement of the Council, no person shall make any new or additional
connection or tap to any water pipe, service line, lateral or main which is
presently a part of or connected to the municipal waterworks system, whether
within or outside the corporate limits, that shall have the effect of extending
municipal water service to any new or additional premises, building, or user
located outside the corporate limits of the City, nor shall any existing
service line or main on any premises be extended so as to provide municipal
water service to any other part of the same premises which is not within the
corporate limits of the City. The Superintendent shall refuse any application
for connection to the municipal waterworks system which seeks a connection
prohibited in this section. For purposes of this section, “premises” means a
parcel of real estate or adjoining parcels of real estate under common
ownership. If by express written agreement, the Council shall allow a new or
additional connection to the municipal waterworks system or premises, building,
or user located outside the corporate limits of the City, then a water rate
shall be established for such premises, building, or user that will adequately
reimburse the City for its expenses and investment in the municipal waterworks
system and such additional connections.
CHAPTER 91
WATER METERS
 
91.01 Purpose                           91.05 Meter Setting
91.02 Water Use Metered                 91.06 Meter Costs
91.03 Fire Sprinkler Systems; Exception 91.07 Meter Repairs
91.04 Location of Meters                91.08 Right of Entry
 
91.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to encourage the conservation of water and
facilitate the equitable distribution of charges for water service among
customers.
91.02   WATER USE METERED.
All water furnished to customers shall be measured through meters, which must
be installed by a licensed plumber. The first water meter shall be furnished by
the City. Customers wishing to have an additional meter for non-sewered water
service for irrigation and other allowable uses for non-sewered water shall pay
for the cost of the water meter, and an administrative cost of $50.00 for
installation of a non-sewered meter from the City and shall also complete the
application and agreement for receipt of the meter and use of non-sewered water
service.
91.03   FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS; EXCEPTION.
Fire sprinkler systems may be connected to water mains by direct connection
without meters under the direct supervision of the Superintendent. No other
open, unmetered connection shall be incorporated in the system, and there shall
be no valves except a main control valve at the entrance to the building which
must be sealed open.
91.04   LOCATION OF METERS.
All meters shall be so located that they are easily accessible to meter readers
and repairmen and protected from freezing.
91.05   METER SETTING.
The property owner shall provide all necessary piping and fittings for proper
setting of the meter including a valve on the discharge side of the meter.
Meter pits may be used only upon approval of the Superintendent and shall be of
a design and construction approved by the Superintendent.
91.06   METER COSTS.
The full cost of any meter larger than that required for a single-family
residence shall be paid to the City by the property owner or customer prior to
the installation of any such meter by the City, or, at the sole option of the
City, the property owner or customer may be required to purchase and install
such meter in accordance with requirements established by the City.
91.07   METER REPAIRS.
Whenever a water meter owned by the City is found to be out of order the
Superintendent shall have it repaired. If it is found that damage to the meter
has occurred due to the carelessness or negligence of the customer or property
owner, or the meter is not owned by the City, then the property owner shall be
liable for the cost of repairs.
91.08   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Superintendent shall be permitted to enter the premises of any customer at
any reasonable time to read, remove, or change a meter.
CHAPTER 92
WATER RATES
 
92.01 Service Charges           92.06 Lien for Nonpayment
92.02 Rates For Service         92.07 Lien Exemption
92.03 Rates Outside the City    92.08 Lien Notice
92.04 Billing for Water Service 92.09 Utility Deposit
92.05 Service Discontinued      92.10 Insufficient Funds Check Charge
 
92.01   SERVICE CHARGES.
Each customer shall pay for water service provided by the City based upon use
of water as determined by meters provided for in
Chapter 91. Each location, building, premises, or connection shall be
considered a separate and distinct customer whether owned or controlled by the
same person or not. Where a meter has ceased to register or meter reading could
not be obtained, the quantity of water consumed for billing purposes will be
based upon an average of the prior six months’ consumption, and the conditions
of water service prevailing during the period in which the meter failed to
register.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.02   RATES FOR SERVICE.
Unit rates for water service shall be assessed to all customers and users of
the water facility in an equitable manner according to the following schedules.
Water rates are made up of three components, equivalent meter size charge, fire
component charge and commodity charge. The minimum rate for the first 1,000
gallons or less shall be based on an equivalent meter size charge and a fire
component.
   1.   Rates beginning as of July 21, 2024.
Meter Size Chart
Monthly Minimum Based On Meter Size For The First 1,000 Gallons Or Less
Meter Size Equivalency Factor 7/1/2024
Meter Size Chart
Monthly Minimum Based On Meter Size For The First 1,000 Gallons Or Less
Meter Size Equivalency Factor 7/1/2024
5/8”     1.0                $11.18
3/4”     1.1                $14.88
1.0”     1.4                $22.32
1.5”     1.8                $37.21
2.0”     2.9                $49.61
3.0”     11.0               $156.27
4” +     14.0               $186.04
 
 
Fire Component Charge
Structure Type              Equivalency Factor 7/1/2024
Residential                 1.0                $5.57
Small Commercial            5.0                $33.50
Industrial/Large Commercial 10.5               $68.22
 
 
Residential and Commercial Commodity Rates
Effective Beginning                 7/1/2024
Commodity charge over 1,000 gallons $2.61
 
 
Bulk and Industrial Commodity Rates
Effective Beginning                                     7/1/2024
By contract with the City                               $1.64
Usage over the contract amount at 1.5 x rate/1,000 gal. $2.41
Without contract with the City at 2 x rate/1,000 gal.   $3.21
 
   2.   Future Rates. On the first day of July each year, beginning with July
1, 2024, the equivalent of meter size charge and the commodity charge or the
fire component charge shall be increased up to three and a half percent per
annum over the rates in effect during the previous year. The Council may
suspend any annual increase if it deems such an increase to be unnecessary. A
copy of the rate schedule will be available at the office of the Clerk.
   3.   Each property may have one additional meter installed to measure water
which is not disposed of through the public sanitary sewer. For this meter only
the minimum monthly bill assessed to all water meters shall not be charged in
the months of October, November, December, January, February, and March.
92.03   RATES OUTSIDE THE CITY.
Water service shall be provided to any customer located outside the corporate
limits of the City which the City has agreed to serve at rates provided in
Section
92.02. No such customer, however, will be served unless the customer shall have
signed a service contract agreeing to be bound by the ordinances, rules, and
regulations applying to water service established by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4 and 384.84)
92.04   BILLING FOR WATER SERVICE.
Water service shall be billed as part of a combined service account, payable in
accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Meters Read. Water meters shall be read approximately the fifteenth day
of each month.
   2.   Bills Issued. The Clerk’s office shall prepare, date, and issue bills
for water service at the end of each month. Bills shall be deemed issued as of
the date indicated on the bills.
   3.   Bills Payable. Bills for water service shall be due and payable by the
twentieth of the month.
   4.   Late Payment Penalty. Bills not paid when due shall be considered
delinquent. Each delinquent bill shall be subject to a late payment penalty of
one and a half percent per month.
92.05   SERVICE DISCONTINUED.
Water service to delinquent customers shall be discontinued or disconnected in
accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Notice. The Clerk shall notify each delinquent customer that service
will be discontinued or disconnected if payment of the combined service
account, including late payment charges, is not received by the date specified
in the notice of delinquency. Such notice shall be sent by ordinary mail to the
customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred and shall inform
the customer of the nature of the delinquency and afford the customer the
opportunity for a hearing prior to the discontinuance or disconnection. A fee
of $50.00 shall be assessed to each customer receiving a notice pursuant to
this subsection.
   2.   Notice to Landlords. If the customer is a tenant, and if the owner or
landlord of the property or premises has made a written request for notice, the
notice of delinquency shall also be given to the owner or landlord. If the
customer is a tenant and requests a change of name for service under the
account, such request shall be sent to the owner or landlord of the property if
the owner or landlord has made a written request for notice of any change of
name for service under the account to the rental property.
   3.   Contents of Notice; Right to Appeal. The notice shall contain a
statement of the reason for the proposed disconnection, the address of the
premises served, the date service will be discontinued or disconnected, and a
statement that the customer has the right to appeal within 10 days of the date
of the notice of proposed disconnection. If the customer appeals the proposed
disconnection, then disconnection shall be delayed pending completion of the
review procedures.
   4.   Hearing. The customer shall be given an informal hearing before the
Water Committee of the Council within seven days after receipt by the Clerk of
the written notice of appeal. The Water Committee shall send the customer a
written statement of its determination, including the reasons upon which it is
based, within seven days of the informal hearing.
   5.   Disconnection. If the Water Committee finds that disconnection is
justified, then such disconnection shall be made 15 days after the said
committee issues its determination, unless the violation has been cured. A fee
of $50.00 shall be assessed to each customer for which disconnection is made
pursuant to this subsection.
   6.   Reconnection. If any person has had water service disconnected for
failure to pay amounts due to the City in a timely manner, the City shall not
reconnect such water service until all past due and current amount due are paid
by said person. A fee of $50.00 shall be charged before service is restored to
a delinquent customer. No fee shall be charged for the usual or customary trips
in the regular changes in occupancies of property.
   7.   Additional Deposit Required. Any person requesting connection or
reconnection of water service by the City who has been disconnected by the City
for failure to pay amounts due for service within three years of the date of
the request must make an additional deposit with the City, and such additional
deposit shall be in an amount equal to the charge for three months’ water usage
for the site requesting connection. The water usage for three months shall be
based on the average monthly usage for that site for the prior two years. After
connection or reconnection, if the person or entity timely pays all amounts due
to the City for a period of two years, then the amount deposited shall either
be refunded or applied to the next water bill issued.
92.06   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
The owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof shall be
jointly and severally liable for water service charges to the premises. Water
service charges remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon
the property or premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the
County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.07   LIEN EXEMPTION.  
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Water Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall not apply to
charges for water service to a residential or commercial rental property where
water service is separately metered and the rates or charges for the water
service are paid directly to the City by the tenant, if the landlord gives
written notice to the City that the property is residential or commercial
rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or charges. The
City may require a deposit not exceeding the usual cost of 90 days of such
services to be paid to the City. When the tenant moves from the rental
property, the City shall refund the deposit if all service charges are paid in
full. The lien exemption does not apply to delinquent charges for repairs
related to any of the services.
   2.   Other Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall also not apply
to the charges for any of the services of sewer systems, stormwater drainage
systems, sewage treatment, solid waste collection, and solid waste disposal for
a residential rental property where the charge is paid directly to the City by
the tenant, if the landlord gives written notice to the City that the property
is residential rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or
charges for such service. The City may require a deposit not exceeding the
usual cost of 90 days of such services to be paid to the City. When the tenant
moves from the rental property, the City shall refund the deposit if all
service charges are paid in full. The lien exemption does not apply to
delinquent charges for repairs related to any of the services.
   3.   Written Notice. The landlord’s written notice shall contain the name of
the tenant responsible for charges, the address of the residential or
commercial rental property that the tenant is to occupy, and the date that the
occupancy begins. Upon receipt, the City shall acknowledge the notice and
deposit. A change in tenant for a residential rental property shall require a
new written notice to be given to the City within 30 business days of the
change in tenant. A change in tenant for a commercial rental property shall
require a new written notice to be given to the City within 10 business days of
the change in tenant. A change in the ownership of the residential rental
property shall require written notice of such change to be given to the City
within 30 business days of the completion of the change of ownership. A change
in the ownership of the commercial rental property shall require written notice
of such change to be given to the City within 10 business days of the
completion of the change of ownership.
   4.   Mobile Homes, Modular Homes, and Manufactured Homes. A lien for
nonpayment of utility services described in Subsections 1 and 2 of this section
shall not be placed upon a premises that is a mobile home, modular home, or
manufactured home if the mobile home, modular home, or manufactured home is
owned by a tenant of and located in a mobile home park or manufactured home
community and the mobile home park or manufactured home community owner or
manager is the account holder, unless the lease agreement specifies that the
tenant is responsible for payment of a portion of the rates or charges billed
to the account holder.
92.08   LIEN NOTICE.
A lien for delinquent water service charges shall not be certified to the
County Treasurer unless prior written notice of intent to certify a lien is
given to the customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred. If
the customer is a tenant and if the owner or landlord of the property or
premises has made a written request for notice, the notice shall also be given
to the owner or landlord. The notice shall be sent to the appropriate persons
by ordinary mail not less than 30 days prior to certification of the lien to
the County Treasurer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.09   UTILITY DEPOSIT.
There shall be required from every customer, not the owner of the premises
served, a $250.00 deposit intended to guarantee the payment of bills for
utility service. This deposit amount shall be reviewed annually.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.10   INSUFFICIENT FUNDS CHECK CHARGE.
A charge of $30.00 shall be assessed to a City water customer who delivers a
check for payment of fees under this chapter and the check is returned to the
City due to insufficient funds in the account upon which it is drawn.
CHAPTER 95
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM - GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
95.01 Purpose 95.03 Definitions
95.02 Scope   95.04 Abbreviations
 
95.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters of this Code of Ordinances pertaining to the
Sanitary Sewer System is to provide for the optimum public use of the City’s
wastewater collection and treatment facilities through the regulation of sewer
construction, sewer use and industrial wastewater discharges; to provide for
distribution of the City’s costs for ownership, operation and maintenance of
the wastewater collection and treatment facilities necessary for protection of
public health and environment; and to meet the applicable regulatory
requirements that may be imposed on the City now or in the future.
95.02   SCOPE.
   1.   These chapters shall be interpreted in accordance with the definitions
set forth in Section
95.03.
   2.   The provisions of the Sanitary Sewer chapters shall apply to direct or
indirect wastewater discharge to the City’s facilities. The chapters provide
for regulation of sewer construction that will contribute to the City’s
facilities, quantity and quality of wastewater discharges, industrial
wastewater pretreatment requirements, establishment of fees for the
distribution of costs for ownership, operation and maintenance of the
collection and treatment facilities, the approval of plans or specifications
for sewer construction, issuance of permits for industrial wastewater
discharge, miscellaneous permits, and establishment of appropriate enforcement
actions for violations of the chapters.
95.03   DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise,
the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Act” or “the Act” means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also
known as the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.
   2.   “Administrator” means the Wastewater Superintendent of the City or
designated representative.
   3.   “Authorized representative” means the individual designated by the City
Council with authority to act on the City’s behalf in regard to a specific
issue.
   4.   “Average daily flow” means volume of flow compiled over a given period
of time and converted to a daily average by dividing the total flow by the
number of days represented in the time period for which data has been compiled.
Where individual day’s flow readings are recorded, the average shall be based
on the number of days for which flows are recorded and not necessarily the
total number of days in the time period. For computing average daily flow for
industrial users, only production days shall be included in the computation.
Weekends or holidays, shutdowns, etc., shall not generally be considered by the
City in computing the average daily flow.
   5.   “Average daily loading” means the measure of a particular constituent
generally BOD, TSS or TKN compiled over a period of time and converted to a
daily average by dividing the cumulative concentration or volume of the
constituent by the number of days represented in the time period for which data
has been compiled. Where individual day’s loadings are recorded, the average
shall be based on the number of days for which loadings are recorded and not
necessarily the total number of days in the time period. For computing average
daily loadings for industrial users, only production days shall be included in
the computation. Weekends or holidays, shutdowns, etc., shall not generally be
considered by the City in computing the average daily loading.
   6.   “Basic wastewater charge” means the monthly charge based on volume of
flow by a contributor which is intended to recover the cost of operation and
maintenance of the City’s share of the POTW and associated programs.
   7.   “Billable flow” means the volume of wastewater generated by a user as
measured by a water meter or other approved metering system.
   8.   “Biosolids or sludge” means the solids, semi-solids, residues, or
precipitates that result from the treatment of wastewater.
   9.   “B.O.D.” (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand) means the quantity of
oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20?, expressed in milligrams per liter or
parts per million.
   10.   “Bypass” means the diversion of wastewater from or around any portion
of the collection system or treatment facility.
   11.   “Categorical Pretreatment Standards” means the national pollutant
discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with Section 307(b) and (c)
of the Clean Water Act, which apply to specific categories of industrial users
(40 CFR 403.6 and 405-471). Unless noted otherwise, Categorical Pretreatment
Standards shall always refer to the latest approved limits.
   12.   “CBOD (Carbonaceous Biochemical Oxygen Demand)” means that portion of
the BOD attributable to the biochemical oxidation of the carbonaceous organic
matter. This is determined through standard laboratory analyses using a
nitrification inhibitor in performing the BOD test. Generally expressed in mg/
l.
   13.   “City Engineer” means the City Engineer of the City, individual, or
company designated by the City Council with the authority to act on the City’s
behalf in specific issue(s).
   14.   “COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand)” means the quantity of oxygen used in
the chemical decomposition of organic matter in wastewater as determined by the
appropriate laboratory procedure, usually expressed in mg/l.
   15.   “Combined sewer” means a sewer which receives both sanitary sewage and
storm sewage.
   16.   “Composite sample” means the sample resulting from the combination of
individual wastewater samples taken at selected intervals based on an increment
of either flow or time.
   17.   “Contributor or discharger” or “user” means any person, firm,
corporation or other entity or organization responsible for the production of
domestic, commercial, or industrial wastewater which is discharged to the
wastewater collection and treatment system.
   18.   “Cross connection” means a connection between a storm drain system and
a sanitary collection system, or a connection between two sections of a
collection system to handle anticipated overloads of one system.
   19.   “Current license” means one which is current, valid, unsuspended, and
unrevoked.
   20.   “Debt service” means the funds necessary to recover annual principal
and interest payments for bonds issued for the wastewater system.
   21.   “Demand charge” means the charge which recovers debt service costs
associated with the wastewater treatment system.
   22.   “Domestic user” means the discharge of wastewater originating in a
residential facility or dwelling. In this use, it means the type and quantity
of wastes are different from commercial and industrial or agricultural wastes.
   23.   “Domestic wastewater” means household type wastes discharged from
places of human habitation, including sanitary convenience, kitchen, and
laundry waste. Domestic strength wastewater is accepted as having the following
characteristics:
      BOD - 300 mg/l
      TSS - 350 mg/l
      TKN - 30 mg/l
      NH3-N - 15 mg/l
      FOG - 100 mg/l
   24.   “Effluent” means the discharge from a particular facility, unit,
treatment process or system.
   25.   “Effluent limits of effluent standards” means the numerical limits on
pollutants in effluents generally reported in mg/l or lbs/day.
   26.   “Foundation drain or footing drain” means the piping system around the
foundation of a structure or building which is intended to carry groundwater
away from the structure to relieve hydraulic pressure and help keep the
structure walls dry. This may also refer to the sump pump used in the footing
drain system, where applicable.
   27.   “Grab sample” means the sample which is taken from a waste stream on a
one-time basis without regard to the flow in the waste stream and without
consideration of time.
   28.   “Gravity sewer” means a sewer that flows by the force of gravity,
generally operates hydraulically as an open channel.
   29.   “Gravity separation interceptor” means a facility designed for removal
of dangerous, deleterious or prohibited matter from the waste stream by
differential gravity separation (i.e., grease traps or catch basins).
   30.   “Hazardous waste” means a waste defined as hazardous by 40 CFR Part
261.
   31.   “House service connection or building sewer” means the sewer
connecting the building plumbing system to a lateral or branch sewer. The
building sewer may begin at the outside of the building’s foundation wall. Also
called a house connection or service connection.
   32.   “Industrial user” means a source of discharge of wastewater into a
POTW from any source other than a domestic user.
   33.   “Industrial wastewater” means wastewater and water-borne wastes of the
community, excluding domestic wastewater and uncontaminated water and includes
all wastewater from any production, manufacturing, processing, institutional,
commercial, agricultural, or other operation where the wastes discharged
include significant quantities of wastes from non-domestic sources.
   34.   “Inspector” means an authorized representative of the Wastewater
Superintendent.
   35.   “Integrated rendering plant” means a plant operated in conjunction
with and located within the same building or complex of buildings as a
slaughterhouse. The integrated rendering plant building or complex must be
contiguous to the slaughterhouse. There may not be a municipal street
separating the integrated rendering plant and the slaughterhouse. An integrated
rendering plant is a plant within which dead animals, dead fowl, fish, and
inedible offal, meat scraps, bones, suet, feathers, unrendered animal fat,
waste cooking greases, and similar animal matter is rendered, boiled,
processed, or otherwise prepared to obtain a product for commercial use or
disposition other than as food for human consumption. An integrated rendering
plant must be a closed air plant, within which air is captured and burned to
minimize odor.
   36.   “Interceptor sewer” means a public sewer which generally collects
wastewater from lateral sewers and transports it to another interceptor,
pumping station or treatment facilities.
   37.   “Interference” means a discharge, alone or in conjunction with
discharges from other sources, which:
      A.   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment process or operations,
or its sludge process, use or disposal; or
      B.   Causes a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES permit
(including an increase in magnitude or duration of a violation) or prevents
sewage sludge use or disposal in accordance with Section 405 of the Act, or any
criteria, guidelines, or regulations of EPA or IDNR.
   38.   “Jurisdictional limits” means all of the area within the corporate
limits of the City and all of the territory outside the corporate limits of the
City which is within one mile of the corporate limits but exclusive of that
part of such territory which lies within the corporate limits of another city,
town, or village.
   39.   “Lateral sewer or collector sewer” means a public sewer which
generally collects wastewater from house sewers or industrial sewers and
transports it to an interceptor sewer.
   40.   “Local government” means the Mayor and Council of the City.
   41.   “Milligram per liter (mg/l)” means the measure of concentration of a
substance in a liquid generally accepted to equal parts per million.
   42.   “New source” (as defined in 40 CFR 403.3(k) means:
      A.   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under Section 307(C)
of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (1)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located; or
         (2)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (3)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      B.   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of Subparagraphs (2) or (3) of Paragraph A above but otherwise alters,
replaces, or adds to existing process or production equipment.
      C.   Construction of a new source as defined under this section has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (1)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite
construction program, any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or significant site preparation work including clearing, excavation,
or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which is necessary
for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities or
equipment; or
         (2)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this paragraph.
   43.   “NPDES Permit (National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
Permit)” means a permit issued pursuant to Section 402 of the Act.
   44.   “Pass through” means a discharge which exits the POTW into a water of
the State in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any of
the requirements of the POTW’s NPDES permit (including an increase in the
magnitude or duration of a violation) or other permit issued to the POTW by the
IDNR or USEPA.
   45.   “pH” means the negative logarithm of the hydrogen ion activity.
Generally refers to a measure of the acidity of a solution—pH is neutral, pH>7
is alkaline and pH<7 is acidic.
   46.   “Pretreatment” means the reduction of pollutants or conditioning of
the waste stream to enhance treatability prior to discharge to the POTW for
treatment.
   47.   “Public sewer” means a sewer constructed for public use under the
control of the City.
   48.   “Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW)” means the system of public
sewers, pumping facilities and treatment facilities used to collect, convey,
and treat wastewater and manage wastewater sludges, which is owned, managed,
and regulated by the City.
   49.   “POTW treatment plant” means the treatment works portion of the POTW.
   50.   “Processing” means any operation or combination of operations whereby
dead animals, dead fowl, fish, inedible offal, meat scraps, bones, suet,
feathers, unrendered animal fat, waste cooking greases, and similar animal
matter is prepared for disposal at a rendering establishment, stored, or is
treated for commercial use or disposition other than as food for human
consumption.
   51.   “Processing area” means any area in which processing is conducted.
   52.   “Rendering business” means the collection or rendering, or boiling, or
refining or storing, pending further processing or disposal at a rendering
establishment, of dead animals, dead fowls, fish, inedible offal, meat scraps,
bones, suet, feathers, unrendered animal fat, waste cooking greases, and
similar animal matter, or the transportation of such matter to and disposal at
a rendering establishment, either as a separate business or in connection with
any other established business. An integrated rendering plant does not
constitute a rendering business.
   53.   “Rendering establishment” means any establishment, plant, or premises
at or within which dead animals, dead fowls, fish, inedible offal, meat scraps,
bones, suet, feathers, unrendered animal fat, waste cooking greases, and
similar animal matter is rendered, boiled, processed or otherwise prepared to
obtain a product for commercial use or disposition other than as food for human
consumption. An integrated rendering plant does not constitute a rendering
establishment.
   54.   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer which is intended to transport
wastewater and to which storm sewage, surface water and groundwater are not
intentionally connected.
   55.   “Sewer system” means a network of wastewater collection, conveyance,
pumping, treatment, and disposal facilities connected with sewers and owned and
controlled by the City.
   56.   “Significant industrial user” means an industrial user meeting any of
the following criteria:
      A.   Discharges more than 25,000 gallons per day of process wastewater.
      B.   Discharges a process wastewater which makes up five percent or more
of the hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW.
      C.   Is designated as significant by the Wastewater Superintendent
because the discharge may adversely affect the operation of the POTW or for
violating any pretreatment requirement.
      D.   Any industrial user subject to Categorical Pretreatment Standards.
   57.   “Significant noncompliance” means:
      A.   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66 percent or more of wastewater measurements taken during a
six-month period exceed the daily maximum limit or average limit for the same
pollutant parameter by any amount;
      B.   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which 33 percent or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the daily
maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4
for BOD, TSS, oil and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      C.   Any other discharge violation the Wastewater Superintendent believes
has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass
through, including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general
public;
      D.   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Wastewater
Superintendent exercising emergency authority to halt or prevent such a
discharge;
      E.   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or enforcement
order for starting construction, completing construction, or attaining final
compliance;
      F.   Failure to provide within 30 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports,
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      G.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      H.   Any other violation(s) which the Wastewater Superintendent
determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local
pretreatment program.
   58.   “Sludge or biosolids” means solids, semi-solids, residues or
precipitates that result from the treatment of wastewater.
   59.   “Standard Industrial Classification (SIC)” means a classification of
industrial facilities in accordance with the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual issued by the Office of Management and Budget.
   60.   “Suspended Solids (SS)” means solids that float on the surface or are
in suspension in wastewater which can be removed through standard laboratory
filtering.
   61.   “Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen (TKN)” means the measure of nitrogen in
wastewater determined in a laboratory by measuring ammonia after digesting
organic nitrogen to convert it to ammonia nitrogen.
   62.   “Toxic pollutant” means any pollutant or combination of pollutants
listed as toxic in regulations promulgated by the Environmental Protection
Agency.
   63.   “User charge” means rates, charges, and fees charged to contributors
for use of the POTW.
   64.   “Wastewater or sewage” means a combination of water-borne wastes from
residences, businesses, institutions, and industrial facilities, along with the
groundwater and surface runoff that may be present, which is discharged to the
POTW.
   65.   “Wastewater collection system” means the network of sewers and pumping
stations which collect wastewater from individual building sewers and convey it
to the treatment facilities.
   66.   “Wastewater Superintendent” means, without further designation, the
person who is performing the duties of the Wastewater Superintendent of the
City. The term shall include their authorized representative when not
inconsistent with the context.
   67.   “Wastewater treatment facilities or water pollution control
facilities” means a system of unit processes which function to reduce pollutant
loadings through physical, chemical, or biological processes.
95.04   ABBREVIATIONS.
The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
BOD   Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CBOD   Carbonaceous Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CFR   Code of Federal Regulations
CFS   Cubic Feet Per Second
COD   Chemical Oxygen Demand
EPA   Environmental Protection Agency
GPD   Gallons er Day
GPM   Gallons Per Minute
IDNR   Iowa Department of Natural Resources
mg   Milligram
mg/l   Milligrams Per Liter
MGD   Million Gallons Per Day
NH3-N   Ammonia Nitrogen
NPDES   National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
POTW   Publicly Owned Treatment Works
PPM   Parts Per Million
RCRA   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIC   Standard Industrial Classification
SIU   Significant Industrial User
TKN   Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen
TSS   Total Suspended Solids
WPCF   Water Pollution Control Facilities
WWTF   Wastewater Treatment Facility
CHAPTER 96
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM - ADMINISTRATION
 
96.01 General                   96.05 Wastewater Discharge Permits
96.02 Wastewater Superintendent 96.06 Capacity Requirements
96.03 Permits Required          96.07 Confidentiality
96.04 Construction Permit       96.08 Falsifying Information
 
96.01   GENERAL.
The POTW is under the authority, management, and control of the City. The City
shall employ a full-time Wastewater Superintendent and other employees as are
necessary for the operation and maintenance of the POTW and the administrative
activities incidental thereto.
96.02   WASTEWATER SUPERINTENDENT.
The Wastewater Superintendent shall be the administrator of the system and, as
such, is empowered to implement and enforce the provisions of these Sanitary
Sewer chapters. The Wastewater Superintendent is hereby empowered to, either
directly or indirectly:
   1.   Supervise the implementation of the chapters.
   2.   Institute actions against all users violating the chapters and, with
the City Attorney, institute necessary legal proceedings to prosecute
violations of the chapters and compel the prevention and abatement of
violations of the chapters or nuisances arising therefrom.
   3.   Review the plans for pretreatment equipment, submitted by users.
   4.   Make inspections and tests of existing and newly installed,
constructed, reconstructed, or altered pretreatment equipment to determine
compliance with the provisions of the chapters.
   5.   Investigate complaints of violations of the chapters and make
inspections and observations of discharges. Record such investigations,
complaints, inspections, and observations.
   6.   Issue orders requiring compliance with the chapters.
   7.   Determine surcharges to be levied pursuant to the chapters.
   8.   Deny a permit for cause.
   9.   Perform other actions necessary or advisable for the management and
operation of the POTW and the enforcement of the chapters and other applicable
laws and regulations.
96.03   PERMIT REQUIRED.
Permits are required for:
   1.   The construction of improvements or extensions that will contribute to
the POTW.
   2.   Special permits for discharging surface waters to a public sanitary
sewer may be issued by the Council upon recommendation of the Wastewater
Superintendent.
   3.   The discharge of any non-domestic user to the POTW.
96.04   CONSTRUCTION PERMIT.
Applications for construction of sanitary sewer extensions or improvements that
connect to the POTW shall be submitted to the City Engineer for approval. The
application may be made concurrently with the Iowa DNR construction permit
submittal. The permit application shall include the appropriate IDNR
construction permit schedules and shall, at a minimum, include:
   1.   Owner’s name, address, and phone number.
   2.   Project name and location.
   3.   Initial service area and future service area.
   4.   Initial estimated flows and future estimated flows.
   5.   Plans and specifications which shall, at a minimum, conform to the
applicable standard specifications of the State.
   6.   Evidence that the project has been submitted to Iowa DNR or other
regulatory agencies that may be appropriate.
   7.   Other information as may be required by the City Engineer.
Construction of the proposed sanitary sewer extensions or improvements shall
not begin without the City Engineer’s approval. Upon completion of the
construction, the owner shall provide the City Engineer one copy of the as-
constructed drawings which shall identify pertinent features of the project:
pipe size, length, materials of construction, structure locations, elevations,
service line connection locations, utilities, soil and groundwater conditions,
and other information that may be requested by the City Engineer. The City
reserves the right to inspect the work while in progress or upon completion,
including internal inspection. If it is found that the project is improperly
constructed, improperly used, or maintained which, in turn, causes extraneous
flows to enter the POTW, creates a flow restriction, affects the structural
integrity of the POTW or in any way impacts the POTW or other City facilities,
the City Engineer may give notice of the condition to the owner and shall
direct the condition be corrected. Construction or maintenance of building
sewer lines whether located upon the private property of any owner or in the
public right-of-way, which construction or maintenance is in violation of any
of the requirements of these Sanitary Sewer chapters, shall be corrected, at
the owner’s expense, within 30 days after date of official notice from the
Council of such violation. If not made within such time the Council shall, in
addition to the other penalties herein provided, have the right to finish and
correct the work and assess the cost thereof to the property owner. Such
assessment collected with and in the same manner as general property taxes.
96.05   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
All non-domestic users of the POTW which contribute either directly or
indirectly to the POTW may be required to obtain a Wastewater Discharge Permit
from the City. Any violation of the terms and conditions of a Wastewater
Discharge Permit shall be deemed a violation of this Code of Ordinances and
subjects the wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in Chapter
99. Obtaining a Wastewater Discharge Permit does not relieve a permittee of its
obligation to comply with all federal, State, or local laws. The Wastewater
Discharge Permit may require pretreatment of industrial wastewaters prior to
discharge to the POTW, flow equalization to reduce peak flows, discharge of
certain wastes only to specific sewers, relocation of discharge points,
prohibition of certain discharges, restriction of some discharges to specific
hours of the day, payment of additional charges to defray costs that may be
related to specific discharges and other conditions that may be needed to
implement activities consistent with the intent of these Sanitary Sewer
chapters. No person shall discharge wastewater to the POTW in excess of the
quantity or quality limits established in the Wastewater Discharge Permit. Any
person desiring to discharge wastewater or use facilities which do not conform
to the permit should apply to the City for an amended permit. A schedule for
complying with permit requirements, effluent limits, self-monitoring
requirements or other requirements deemed necessary by the Wastewater
Superintendent shall be submitted to the City for approval by the non-domestic
user in a time frame established by the Wastewater Superintendent. The
Wastewater Superintendent may require compliance schedule progress reports, a
report on final compliance with effluent limits and standards, and periodic
reports on continued compliance. The Wastewater Superintendent may require a
non-domestic user to submit to compliance independent of a compliance schedule.
   1.   Permit Application. All non-domestic users of the POTW may be required
to obtain a Wastewater Discharge Permit. Application procedure for the permit
shall be initiated by the non-domestic user who, upon notification by the
Wastewater Superintendent, shall provide the following information:
      A.   Name, address, and location, if different from the address.
      B.   Authorized representative.
      C.   SIC Code according to Standard Industrial Classification Manual,
Bureau of the Budget, 1987, as amended.
      D.   Description of the operation and primary activities associated with
wastewater production.
      E.   Time and hours of operation or wastewater discharge.
      F.   General description of the wastewater discharge characteristics,
including the nature and concentration of any known pollutants in the
discharge.
      G.   Spill prevention plans in place.
      H.   Priority pollutant information.
      I.   Any other information that the Wastewater Superintendent may deem
appropriate to evaluate the permit application.
The Wastewater Superintendent shall determine from the information supplied
whether the non-domestic user can be granted a general Wastewater Discharge
Permit for the classification of its discharge or whether a specific discharge
permit shall be required.
   2.   Individual Permit Requirements. All significant industrial users (SIUs)
and all other discharges to the POTW determined by the Wastewater
Superintendent to have significant potential impact on the POTW shall be
required to apply for an Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit. Dischargers
requiring an individual permit shall submit, at least 90 days prior to
connecting to or contributing to the POTW, a Permit Application/Baseline
Monitoring Report providing the following information to the City along with
the appropriate permit application fee:
      A.   Name, address, and location, if different from the address, and the
authorized representative.
      B.   Primary SIC number according to the Standard Industrial
Classification Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1987, as amended.
      C.   List the environmental control permits held by or for the user.
      D.   General description of activities which may result in discharges to
the POTW.
      E.   Each product produced, by type and amount.
      F.   Number and type of employees and hours of operation of plant and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system.
      G.   Show all sewers, sewer connections, testing places, and provide site
plans, floor plans, mechanical, and plumbing plans when available.
      H.   Average daily and estimated peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly, and seasonal variations, if any.
      I.   Time and duration of contribution.
      J.   Wastewater constituents and characteristics as determined by a
certified analytical laboratory. Sampling and analysis shall be performed in
accordance with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to Section 304(g) of
the Act and contained in 40 CFR, Part 136, as amended. Where 40 CFR, Part 136,
does not include a sampling or analytical technique for the pollutant in
question, sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with the
procedures set forth in the EPA Publication, Sampling and Analysis Procedures
for Screening of Industrial Effluents for Priority Pollutants, April 1977, and
amendments thereto, or with any other sampling and analytical procedures
approved by the Wastewater Superintendent.
      K.   All pretreatment standards which apply to the user’s discharge.
      L.   The nature and concentration of any pollutants in the discharge
which are limited by any federal or categorical pretreatment standards, and a
statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards are being met on
a consistent basis and, if not, whether additional operation and maintenance or
additional pretreatment is required for the user to meet applicable
pretreatment standards.
      M.   If additional pretreatment or operation and maintenance will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this
schedule for categorical pretreatment standards shall not be later than the
compliance date established for applicable pretreatment standards. The
following conditions shall apply to the schedule:
         (1)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (e.g., hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction, etc.).
         (2)   The schedule should be submitted to the Wastewater
Superintendent for approval.
         (3)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Wastewater Superintendent or pretreatment program manager including, as a
minimum, whether or not it complied with the increments of progress to be met
on such date and, if not, the date on which it expects to comply with this
increment of progress, the reason for delay and the steps being taken by the
user to return the construction to the schedule established. In no event shall
more than six months elapse between such progress reports to the Wastewater
Superintendent or pretreatment program manager.
         (4)   A statement reviewed by an authorized representative of the
industrial user and certified to by a qualified professional, indicating
whether pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if
not, whether additional operation and maintenance or additional pretreatment is
required for the industrial user to meet the pretreatment standards and
requirements.
         (5)   A Certification Statement attesting to the validity of the
information supplied, signed by a representative of the permittee.
         (6)   Any other information as may be deemed by the City to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
The City will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require
additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished,
the City may issue a Wastewater Discharge Permit subject to the terms and
conditions provided herein.
   3.   Discharge Permit Conditions. Wastewater Discharge Permits shall be
subject to all provisions of these chapters and all other applicable
regulations, user charges and fees established by the City. Permits may contain
the following as determined by the Wastewater Superintendent or pretreatment
program manager.
      A.   A statement of the duration of the permit (in no case more than five
years).
      B.   A statement of non-transferability without, at a minimum, prior
notification to the POTW and provision of a copy of the existing control
mechanism to the new owner or operator.
      C.   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to the POTW.
      D.   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater concentration, mass or
other measure of constituents or properties based on categorical pretreatment
standards, State law or local limits.
      E.   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization.
      F.   Requirements for installation of pretreatment technology, pollution
control or construction of appropriate containment devices designed to reduce,
eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW.
      G.   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill control
plans or special conditions, including management practices necessary to
adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or non-routine discharges.
      H.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities. When required by the Wastewater Superintendent the owner
of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall
install suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of wastes. If not installed within a reasonable time the Council
shall, in addition to the other penalties herein provided, have the right to
install or correct the work and assess the cost thereof to the property owner.
      I.   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for tests and
reporting schedule.
      J.   Compliance schedules.
      K.   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports.
      L.   Requirements for maintaining and retaining records relating to
wastewater discharge as specified by the City and affording City access
thereto.
      M.   Requirements for notification to the City of any new introduction of
wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the wastewater constituents being introduced into the POTW.
      N.   Requirements for notification to the City of any potential problems,
including slug loading.
      O.   Requirements for notification of accidental discharges.
      P.   Requirements for notification of an upset as defined as “an
exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with permitted pretreatment standards because of factors beyond
the reasonable control of the industrial user.”
      Q.   Requirements for notification of discharge of hazardous wastes.
      R.   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation
of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable compliance
schedule.
      S.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the City to ensure
compliance with this section.
   4.   Permit Duration. Permits shall be renewable as directed by the
Wastewater Superintendent for a specified time period, not to exceed five
years. Permits may be issued for a period less than one year or may be stated
to expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit reissuance a
minimum of 90 days prior to the expiration of the user’s permit. The terms and
conditions of the permit may be subject to modification by the City during the
term of the permit for cause. The user shall be informed of any proposed
changes to their permit at least 30 days prior to the effective date of change.
Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time
schedule for compliance.
   5.   Permit Modifications. Within nine months of the promulgation of a
federal categorical pretreatment standard, the Wastewater Discharge Permit of
the users subject to such standard shall be revised to require compliance with
such standard within the prescribed time frame. Where a user becomes subject to
a federal categorical pretreatment standard who has not previously submitted an
application for a wastewater discharge permit, the user shall apply for a
wastewater discharge permit within 90 days after the promulgation of the
applicable federal categorical pretreatment standard.
   6.   Permit Transfer. Wastewater Discharge Permits are issued to a specific
operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or transferred
or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or changed
operation without the approval of the City. Any succeeding owner or user shall
also comply with the terms and conditions of the existing permit.
   7.   Permit Denial. A permit may be denied to any user whose discharge of
material to the POTW, whether shown upon application or determined after
inspection and testing conducted by the City, is not in conformity with these
chapters or whose application is incomplete or does not comply with the Permit
Application/Baseline Monitoring Report procedure.
96.06   CAPACITY REQUIREMENTS.
No connection to the POTW nor increased flows or loadings from existing
connections shall be allowed unless there is sufficient unused hydraulic and
treatment capacity in the POTW for the additional wastewater.
96.07   CONFIDENTIALITY.
Information and data obtained from reports, questionnaires, permit
applications, permits and monitoring programs, and from inspections shall be
available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction unless
the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction
of the City that the release of such information would divulge information,
processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of
the user. When requested by the user furnishing a report, portions of a report
which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, except upon written request to
governmental agencies through the Freedom of Information Act for uses related
to this chapter, the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
Permit, State Disposal System Permit or the pretreatment program; provided,
however, that such portions of a report shall be available for use by EPA, the
State or any State agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings
involving the person furnishing the report. Data on wastewater constituents and
characteristics will not be recognized as confidential information. Information
accepted by the City as confidential shall not be transmitted to the general
public by the City until and unless a 10-day notification is given to the user.
96.08   FALSIFYING INFORMATION.
Any person who knowingly makes any false statements, representation or
certification in any application, record, report, plan, or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter or Wastewater Discharge
Permit, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this chapter shall be in violation
of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 97
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM - REGULATIONS
 
97.01 General                                 97.05 Service Outside the City
97.02 Accidental Discharges                   97.06 Right of Entry
97.03 Construction and Maintenance of         97.07 Use of Easements
Interceptors
97.04 Waste Received from Other Jurisdictions
 
97.01   GENERAL.
   1.   Connection to Sewer Required. The owner of any house, building, or
property which is used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other
purposes, and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which the POTW
is available, is required, at the owner’s expense, to install suitable
wastewater disposal facilities and to connect such facilities directly to the
POTW in accordance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters within
90 days after date of official notice to do so, provided that the POTW is
within 200 feet (61 meters) of the property line, or otherwise required by the
County Health Department. All wastewater from such houses, buildings, or
properties shall be discharged to the POTW.
   Any septic tanks, cesspools, or similar wastewater disposal facilities
shall, upon connection to the POTW, be emptied of wastes and refilled with
suitable materials to prevent collapse. This shall not apply to any persons
served by a privately owned, operated, and maintained wastewater sewer and
wastewater treatment facility which discharges directly to a natural outlet in
accordance with the provisions of these chapters and applicable State and
federal laws.
   2.   Disconnection From Sewer. Whenever buildings are abandoned or
demolished, the building sewer(s) shall be disconnected from the public sewer
at the owner’s expense, in a manner approved by the City, to adequately protect
the POTW.
   3.   Prohibitions. It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or
permit to be deposited in any manner that creates a hazard or threat to human
health or the environment upon public or private property within or under the
jurisdiction of the City, any wastes, wastewater, garbage, or material
prohibited for discharge to the POTW.
   4.   Discharges to Natural Outlets. No person shall discharge without an
NPDES permit (or pursuant to an exemption from NPDES requirements under
applicable law) to any natural outlet within the City, or in any area under its
jurisdiction, either directly or through a City storm sewer.
   5.   Wastewater Disposal. Except as provided in these chapters, it is
unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   6.   Further Requirements. No statement contained in this section shall be
construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by
health officials or other applicable authorities.
97.02   ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
Each user shall have the responsibility to protect the POTW from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other regulated substances. Where required
by the Wastewater Superintendent, facilities to prevent accidental discharge of
prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained at the owner’s or user’s
expense with detailed plans of such facility available to the City for review
and approval prior to construction. The Wastewater Superintendent shall have
the authority to require any industrial user to submit a Spill/Slug Control
Plan when, in the judgment of the Wastewater Superintendent, an accidental
discharge from the industrial user could potentially impact the POTW.
Each user, when required by the Wastewater Superintendent, shall submit a
Spill/Slug Control Plan to the City describing:
   1.   Discharge practices, including non-routine batch discharges.
   2.   Chemical storage.
   3.   The procedure for immediate POTW notification of any accidental or slug
discharge.
   4.   The procedure to prevent adverse impact to the POTW from accidental
spills, including inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling and
transfer of materials, loading and unloading of operations, control of plant
site runoff, worker training, building of containment structures or equipment,
measures for containing toxic organic pollutants (including solvents) or
measures and equipment for emergency response.
   5.   Within five days following an accidental discharge, the user shall
submit to the Wastewater Superintendent a detailed written report describing
the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, fish kills or any other damage to person or property; nor
shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties, or
other liability which may be imposed by this Code of Ordinances or other
applicable law.
   6.   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
dangerous discharge. Employers shall ensure that all employees who may cause or
suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
   7.   If a user continues to create or experience accidental discharges, the
Wastewater Superintendent shall have the authority to seek penalties or
terminate service to the habitual violator.
97.03   CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF INTERCEPTORS.
Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Wastewater Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand or other harmful constituents. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the City and shall be located so as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Grease and oil interceptors
shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and
extreme changes in temperature. Interceptors shall be of substantial
construction, watertight and equipped with easily removable covers which, when
bolted in place, shall be gas tight and watertight. Where installed, all
grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be maintained by the owner, at his
expense, in continuous efficient operation at all times.
97.04   WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS.
If another municipality or governmental jurisdiction or user located within
another governmental jurisdiction contributes wastewater to the POTW, the
Council shall enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the contributing
governmental jurisdiction. The following information will be supplied by the
user or the contributing governmental jurisdiction.
   1.   Description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to the
POTW.
   2.   Inventory of all users located within the contributing jurisdiction
that are discharging to the POTW.
   3.   Any information the Wastewater Superintendent may deem necessary.
97.05   SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
Municipal wastewater utility service shall not be extended to any new or
additional premises, building, or user located outside the corporate limits of
the City. No person shall make any new or additional connection or tap to any
sewer pipe, service line, lateral or main which is presently a part of or
connected to the municipal wastewater treatment facilities, whether within or
without the corporate limits, which shall have the effect of extending
municipal wastewater collection and treatment service to any new or additional
premises, building, or user located outside the corporate limits of the City,
nor shall an existing service line or main on any premises be extended so as to
provide municipal wastewater service to any other part of the same premises
which is not within the corporate limits of the City. The Wastewater
Superintendent shall refuse any application for connection to the municipal
wastewater collection and treatment system which seeks a connection prohibited
in this section. This section is prospective only and shall not be deemed to
prohibit or affect any connection, service line or main in existence on
December 29, 1993. For the purposes of this section, “premises” means a parcel
of real estate or adjoining parcels of real estate under common ownership.
97.06   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Wastewater Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
97.07   USE OF EASEMENTS.
The Wastewater Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for purposes
of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair,
and maintenance of any portion of sewage works lying within said easement. All
entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be done in full
accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the
private property involved.
CHAPTER 98
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM - PROHIBITED DISCHARGES
 
98.01 General                      98.03 Industrial Waste Treatment Facility
98.02 Industrial Waste Discharge -
Permit Required
 
98.01   GENERAL.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, either directly or
indirectly, any wastewater which, in the opinion of the Wastewater
Superintendent, may have any harmful effect on the sewer system, POTW personnel
or equipment, effluent quality, sludge quality, public or private property, or
may otherwise endanger the public, the POTW, the environment, or create a
public nuisance. The Wastewater Superintendent, in reviewing the acceptability
of specific wastewater, shall consider the characteristics of the wastewater
and the adequacy and characteristics of the POTW to accept the wastewater.
   1.   General Discharge Prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will
interfere with the operation or performance of the POTW.
   These general prohibitions apply to all such users of a POTW whether or not
the user is subject to national categorical pretreatment standards or any other
national, State, or local pretreatment standards or requirements. A user may
not contribute the following substances to a POTW:
      A.   Any liquids, solids, or gases with a closed cup flashpoint of less
than 140 degrees F (60 degrees C) using test methods referenced in 40 CFR
261.21 or which, by reasons of their nature or quantity, are, or may be,
sufficient either alone or by interaction with other substances to cause fire
or explosion hazard or be injurious in any other way to the POTW or to the
operation of the POTW.
   At no time shall two successive readings on an explosimeter at any point in
the system be more than five percent nor any single reading over 10 percent of
the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter.
      B.   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the POTW.
      C.   Any wastewater having a pH less than five or higher than nine, or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment, or personnel of the POTW.
      D.   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW, or to
exceed the limit set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard. A toxic
pollutant shall include, but not be limited to, any pollutant identified
pursuant to Section 307(a) of the Act.
      E.   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for maintenance and repair.
      F.   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW, such as residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be out of compliance
with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines, or regulations.
      G.   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES or
State disposal system permit or the receiving water quality standards.
      H.   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
      I.   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW resulting in interference. Wastewater with a temperature
at the introduction to the POTW which exceeds 40 degrees Celsius (104 degrees
Fahrenheit) unless the POTW is designed to accommodate such temperature.
      J.   Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.)
released at a flow rate or pollutant concentration which a user knows or has
reason to believe will cause interference to the POTW. Industry shall
coordinate with the POTW for the discharge of any slug load which may have the
potential to cause interference with the POTW.
      K.   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such
half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Wastewater
Superintendent in compliance with applicable State or federal regulations.
      L.   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference with POTW processes or pass
through to the receiving waters.
      M.   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a
public nuisance.
      N.   Any Clearwater. Except as otherwise expressly authorized in this
section, no person shall make connections of roof downspouts, foundation
drains, sump pumps, yard drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that is connected directly or
indirectly to the public sewer. Structures that require, because of
infiltration of water into basements, crawl spaces and the like, a permanently
installed discharge line shall not at any time discharge water into a sanitary
sewer system.
         (1)   Clearwater Discharge Installation. A permanent clearwater
discharge installation shall be one which provides for year round discharge
capability to the outside of the structure, discharging to a storm sewer or an
approved, natural or artificial watercourse. Within the structure, the
clearwater discharge pipe shall consist of a rigid discharge line, without
valves or quick connections that would alter the path of discharge. If the line
is directly connected to a storm sewer line or catch basin a backflow preventer
is required.
         (2)   Inspections. Property owners shall allow an employee, or
designated representative of the City, to inspect structures to confirm that
there is no prohibited discharge into the sanitary sewer. The City may
periodically re-inspect any building or premises to determine compliance with
the requirements of this subsection.
         (3)   Notice of Violation and Surcharge. If a property is found to
have a connection or installation in violation of this subsection, a notice to
correct the violation will be delivered personally or by certified mail to the
owner. If not removed or corrected within 30 calendar days after notice of the
violation, the City may impose a surcharge in the amount provided in this
subsection. Such surcharge may also be imposed upon any property owner if the
owner refuses to allow their property to be inspected.
         (4)   Removal of Clearwater Connections.
            a.   Future Structures. Clearwater from structures constructed
after the adoption of this Code shall not discharge to the sanitary sewer
system. The clearwater shall discharge to a storm sewer or a watercourse.
            b.   Existing Structures with Discharge Option. Existing structures
shall disconnect any clearwater discharge to the public sanitary sewer within
180 days of the adoption of this ordinance (December 11, 2006) or be subject to
the surcharge.
            c.   Existing Structures without Discharge Option. If the City
agrees that no suitable storm sewer or watercourse discharge point exists for
the subject structure, the clearwater connection may remain until a suitable
discharge point is available.
         (5)   Surcharge. A surcharge is hereby imposed on every sewer bill to
property owners for the following conditions:
            a.   Existing Structures with Clearwater Connection with Discharge
Option – $100.00 per month.
            b.   Existing Structures with Clearwater without Discharge Option –
$10.00 per month.
            c.   Refusal to Allow Inspection by City – $100.00 per month.
         (6)   Non-Payment of Surcharge. If the surcharge is not received by
the City, the City reserves the right to assess the property owner the unpaid
balance in the same manner as property taxes.
When the Wastewater Superintendent determines that a user(s) is contributing to
the POTW any of the above substances in such amounts as to interfere with the
operation of the POTW, the Wastewater Superintendent shall advise the user(s)
of the impact of the contribution on the POTW, and develop effluent limitation
(s) for such user to correct the interference with the POTW.
   2.   Dilution of Discharges. No user shall ever increase the use of process
water for the purposes of attempting to dilute or to dilute a discharge as a
partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance
with the limitations contained in the federal categorical pretreatment
standards or in any other pollutant-specific limitation developed by the City
or State.
   3.   Specific Limits. In most cases, the concentration or amount of any
particular constituent which will be considered excessive will depend upon the
results of technical determinations and regulatory agency regulations. The list
of constituents herein provides specific limits where they are reasonably well
established. Limits or constituents to be subject to limits in the future are
subject to change based on POTW impacts, technical determinations, and
regulatory requirements. Specific local limits for pollutants to be allowed in
the discharge to the Postville Wastewater Treatment Facility are developed
using a mass balance approach across the treatment process. Specific pollutant
loading limitations are based on the most stringent criteria depending upon:
      A.   Concentration causing interference.
      B.   Concentration causing pass-through in violation of Water Quality
Standards.
      C.   Concentration causing sludge criteria to violate low-rate land
application criteria.
Removal rates will be factored into the analyses for computing the local limits
to establish mass loadings allowed of each individual pollutant. The wastewater
treatment facility will periodically review the plant removal efficiencies on a
unit-by-unit basis and may periodically revise the allowable pollutant loadings
due to additional data collection, regulations, or pollutants of concern. Where
specific pollutant removal rates (for a particular treatment process) cannot be
determined at the wastewater treatment facility, default values from the IDNR
and EPA will be used to develop the limits. These too may be revised by
additional plant evaluation, data collection, and regulations.
98.02   INDUSTRIAL WASTE DISCHARGE - PERMIT REQUIRED.
   1.   All non-domestic waste discharges to the POTW may be required to obtain
a permit.
   2.   Permits will be authorized by the Wastewater Superintendent under the
direction of the Council.
   3.   Industrial user categories, discharge quantities, loadings, and
potential to impact the POTW shall be factors in issuance of the permit.
   4.   The industrial user shall be responsible for conforming to the
requirements of the permit and shall promptly report to the Wastewater
Superintendent any changes which could result in the need to modify the permit
or have any effect on the discharge from the industrial user.
   5.   Industrial users shall immediately report any violations of the permit
to the POTW.
98.03   INDUSTRIAL WASTE TREATMENT FACILITY.
The City’s Waste Pollution Control Facilities include the industrial waste
treatment lagoons owned by the City which were constructed as a result of
agreements executed on December 12, 1968, and amended thereafter. Such
facilities also include an Industrial Wastewater Treatment Mechanical Plant and
associated storage lagoons on real estate the City is leasing from
AgriProcessors, Inc. The City shall operate and maintain the industrial waste
treatment lagoons and mechanical facility, but may assign the actual day-to-day
operation and maintenance of such facilities to the actual user of such
facility. Agreements shall be signed with the industries using such facilities
and lagoons for payment to the City of reasonable charges for the operation,
maintenance, and replacement of such parts of the industrial waste treatment
system or such agreements may provide for the direct payment by the industry
utilizing such systems for the operation, maintenance, and replacement of such
equipment and parts of such system. The industry(ies) using the industrial
waste treatment system shall not in the aggregate, discharge waste into the
system in excess of limits placed upon the system by the Iowa Department of
Natural Resources (IDNR). Areas of limitations include but are not limited to
PH level, flow, BOD, total suspended solids, ammonia, oil and grease, and
chlorides.
   1.   Each industry using the system shall be assigned hydraulic or loading
limitations as approved by the IDNR.
   The Wastewater Superintendent or an authorized agent shall periodically
inspect the system, take samples, and conduct tests to determine whether or not
the industry is exceeding the loading limitations placed upon it. The cost of
routine inspections, sampling, and testing shall be considered part of the cost
of operations and maintenance.
   2.   If any industry is the exclusive user of any component of the waste
treatment system, such industry shall undertake to become the permit holder
with the IDNR and be responsible for all such limits imposed on the industry
pursuant to the permit and any NPDES permit by the IDNR.
   To the extent that the City is required to be a permit holder for such
portion of the waste treatment facility, the industry shall not in any
circumstances exceed the designated loading limits for such portion of the
facility. In the event there is such an exceedance by the industry, in addition
to any and all fines imposed, either upon the City or the industry by the IDNR,
the EPA, or any other regulatory agency, the industry shall be subject to a
surcharge in addition to normal user fee for such exceedance as follows:
 
Parameter Exceeding Allowable Limit Rate lbs Exceeding Allowable Limit Rate mg/
                                             l
BOD       $0.08/lb.                          $0.00050/cf
TSS       $0.14/lb.                          $0.00088/cf
Ammonia   $0.20/lb.                          $0.00125/cf
TKN       $0.20/lb.                          $0.00125/cf
Chloride  $0.20/lb.                          $0.00125/cf
 
CHAPTER 99
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM - PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS
 
99.01 Pretreatment                               99.05 City’s Right to Revision
99.02 Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards 99.06 Monitoring Facilities
99.03 Federal Categorical Pretreatment           99.07 Inspection and Sampling
Modifications
99.04 Specific Pollutant Limits                  99.08 Reporting Requirements
 
99.01   PRETREATMENT.
   1.   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to
comply with these Sanitary Sewer chapters and shall achieve compliance with all
federal categorical pretreatment standards and schedules where applicable. Any
facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable to the City
shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed
plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be
submitted to the City for review and shall be acceptable to the City before
construction of the facility. The review of such plans and operating procedures
will, in no way, relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the
facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the City under the
provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters. Any subsequent changes in the
industrial activity or pretreatment facilities or method of operation, which
affects quality or quantity of discharge, shall be reported to and be
acceptable to the City prior to the users initiating such changes.
   2.   The City shall annually publish, in the largest daily newspaper
published in the municipality, where the POTW is located, a list of the users
which, during the previous 12 months, were in significant noncompliance with
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements. The term significant
noncompliance shall mean:
      A.   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66 percent or more of wastewater measurements taken during a
six-month period exceed the daily maximum limit or average limit for the same
pollutant parameter by any amount.
      B.   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which 33 percent or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the daily
maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4
for BOD, TSS, Oil and Grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      C.   Any other discharge violation the Wastewater Superintendent believes
has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass
through, including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general
public;
      D.   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Wastewater
Superintendent exercising emergency authority to halt or prevent such a
discharge;
      E.   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or enforcement
order for starting construction, completing construction, or attaining final
compliance;
      F.   Failure to provide within 30 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports,
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      G.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      H.   Any other violation(s) which the Wastewater Superintendent
determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local
pretreatment program.
   3.   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall be
made available to officials of the IDNR or the EPA upon request.
99.02   FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
Upon the promulgation of the federal categorical pretreatment standards for a
particular industrial subcategory, the federal standard, if more stringent than
limitations imposed under this Code for sources in that subcategory, shall
immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this Code. The Wastewater
Superintendent shall notify all affected users of the applicable reporting
requirements under 40 CFR, Section 403.12.
99.03   FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT MODIFICATIONS.
Where the City’s wastewater treatment system achieves consistent removal of
pollutants limited by federal pretreatment standards, the City may apply to the
approval authority for modification of specific limits in the federal
pretreatment standards. “Consistent removal” shall mean reduction in the amount
of a pollutant or alteration of the nature of the pollutant by the wastewater
treatment system to a less toxic or harmless state in the effluent which is
achieved by the system in 95 percent of the samples taken when measured
according to the procedures set forth in Section 403.7(c)(2) of Title 40 of the
Code of Federal Regulations, “General Pretreatment Regulations for Existing and
New Sources of Pollution” promulgated pursuant to The Act. The City may then
modify pollutant discharge limits in the federal pretreatment standards if the
requirements contained in 40 CFR Section 403.7 are fulfilled and prior approval
from the approval authority is obtained.
99.04   SPECIFIC POLLUTANT LIMITS.
State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case where
they are more stringent than federal requirements.
99.05   CITY’S RIGHT TO REVISION.
The City reserves the right to establish more stringent limitations or
requirements on discharges to the POTW if deemed necessary.
99.06   MONITORING FACILITIES.
   1.   The City shall require to be provided and operated at the user’s own
expense monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow
measurement of the building sewer or internal drainage systems. The monitoring
facility should normally be situated on the user’s premises, but the City may,
when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the user,
allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk area and
located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.
   2.   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   3.   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the City’s
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
written notification by the City.
99.07   INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   1.   The City shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether
the purpose of these Sanitary Sewer chapters is being met and all requirements
are being complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is
created or discharged shall allow the City or its representative ready access
at all times to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
random sampling, records examination and copying, or in the performance of any
of their duties. The City shall have the right to set up on the user’s property
such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling inspection, compliance
monitoring or metering operations. Where a user has security measures in force
which would require proper identification and clearance before entry into its
premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with its security guards
so that upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the City
will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purpose of performing their
specific responsibilities. The City has the right to randomly sample industry
without notification of the sample taking.
   2.   While on the user’s property, the authorized representatives of the
City shall observe all reasonable safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the user.
   3.   Inspections by State or federal representatives shall not relieve a
user from inspection by City representatives nor shall inspection by City
representatives relieve a user from compliance with inspection by State or
federal representatives.
99.08   REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Compliance Reports. Within 90 days following the date for final
compliance with applicable pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new
source, following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW,
any user subject to pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
Wastewater Superintendent a report indicating the nature and concentration of
all pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process which are limited by
pretreatment standards and requirements and the average and maximum daily flow
for these process units in the user facility which are limited by such
pretreatment standards for requirements. The report shall state whether the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on a consistent
basis and, if not, what additional operation and maintenance or pretreatment is
necessary to bring the user into compliance with the applicable pretreatment
standards or requirements. This statement shall be signed by an authorized
representative of the industrial user and certified to by a qualified
professional.
   2.   Periodic Reports. All industrial users required to have an individual
permit shall submit to the Wastewater Superintendent a report indicating all
flows and the nature and concentration of pollutants in the discharge from the
industrial user. The report shall also include a record of all daily flows or
pollutant loadings that exceeded the daily flow or pollutant loadings allowed
by the Wastewater Discharge Permit. The Wastewater Superintendent has the right
to require reports as frequently as they deem necessary, but reports must be
submitted at least twice annually on dates determined by the Wastewater
Superintendent. If a user is subject to mass limitations, the report shall also
indicate the mass of regulated pollutants in the user’s effluent.
   3.   Other Reports. The Wastewater Superintendent may require other reports
from industrial users as necessary, including, but not limited to, the reports
required by 40 CFR Section 403.12.
   4.   Record Keeping. All industrial users required to have an individual
permit subject to the reporting requirements shall retain, and make available
for inspection and copying, all records of information obtained pursuant to any
monitoring activities required by these Sanitary Sewer chapters and any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements. Records shall include
date, place, method, time of sampling, and the name of person taking the
sample; the dates analyses were performed; who performed the analyses; the
analytical method; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for a period of at least three years. This period shall be
automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user
or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer retention period.
Failure to maintain the records as required by this section shall create a
presumption in favor of the City in any disputes regarding information that
would or should have been contained in the missing records.
CHAPTER 100
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM - USER CHARGES AND FEES
 
100.01 General                    100.08 Connection Fees
100.02 Use of Funds               100.09 Cross and Lateral Sewer Connection
                                  Charges
100.03 Establishment of Funds     100.10 Use of Sewer Connection Charges
100.04 Maintenance of Funds       100.11 Where Connections Permitted
100.05 Determination of Rates and 100.12 Violations
Charges
100.06 Service Charges            100.13 Special Agreements Permitted
100.07 Charges and Fees           100.14 Review of Charges
 
100.01   GENERAL.
The cost and expense of financing the construction, maintenance, and operation
of the Water Pollution Control Facilities as can be so paid shall be paid from
funds accruing from the collection of wastewater service charges hereinafter
stipulated. Every person whose premises are served by a connection to the
sanitary sewer system of the City, either directly or indirectly, shall pay to
the City a comprehensive wastewater service charge for the use of and for
services supplied by the Water Pollution Control Facilities of the City.
100.02   USE OF FUNDS.
The operation, maintenance, and replacement charges shall provide sufficient
revenues to pay costs of operation of the Water Pollution Control Facilities
and sewage pumping and to provide funds for replacement of major items of
equipment. The operation and maintenance costs include salaries and fringe
benefits, utility charges, chemicals, equipment repairs, maintenance, and all
other miscellaneous expenses resulting from the operation and maintenance of
these facilities. Replacement of equipment shall be considered separate from
operation and maintenance.
100.03   ESTABLISHMENT OF FUNDS.
That portion of the total wastewater service charge collected which is
designated for operation and maintenance including replacement purposes shall
be deposited in a separate non-lapsing fund known as the Sewer Fund, and will
be kept in separate accounts, as follows:
   1.   An account designated as the Operation and Maintenance Account for the
specific purpose of defraying operation and maintenance costs, excluding
replacement, of the Water Pollution Control Facilities.
   2.   An account designated as the Replacement Account for the specific
purpose of ensuring replacement needs over the useful life of the Water
Pollution Control Facilities. Deposits in the Replacement Account shall be made
at least annually from the operation, maintenance, and replacement revenue.
   3.   An account designated as the Sinking Fund Bond Account for the specific
purpose of holding funds for the repayment of Bond Debt Services of the Water
Pollution Control Facilities. In addition to deposits required by resolutions
authorizing issuance of sewer indebtedness, additional deposits shall be made
annually from operation, maintenance, and replacement revenue to ensure the
amount equal to the principal and interest payable for each year is available
for said payments.
100.04   MAINTENANCE OF FUNDS.
Fiscal year-end balances in the Operation and Maintenance Account shall be
carried over to the same accounts in the subsequent fiscal year and shall be
used for no other purpose than those designated for these accounts.
100.05   DETERMINATION OF RATES AND CHARGES.
Each connection to the POTW shall pay user charges in accordance with the
following schedule:
   1.   For those users of water being billed on a monthly basis, the maximum
monthly rate shall be based on 100 percent of the monthly water consumption.
Industrial users will be billed on actual sewer discharge consumption unless
otherwise approved by the Council.
   2.   Any special or private contracts shall be metered at the user’s
expense.
   3.   Users whose premises are served by a private water system shall pay
sewer service charges based upon the water used as determined by the City
either by an estimate agreed to by the user or by metering the water system at
the user’s expense. Any negotiated or agreed upon sales or charges shall be
subject to approval of the Council.
   4.   Payment of Bills. All service charges are due and payable under the
same terms and conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as
contained in Section 92.04 of this Code of Ordinances. Sewer service may be
discontinued in accordance with the provisions contained in Section 92.05 if
the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions contained
is Section 92.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a
delinquent account.
   5.   Lien for Nonpayment. The owner of the premises served and any lessee or
tenant thereof shall be jointly and severally liable for sewer service charges
to the premises. Sewer service charges remaining unpaid, and delinquent shall
constitute a lien upon the premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk
to the County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as property taxes.
   6.   Surcharges. A surcharge for industrial wastewaters, in excess of
domestic strength and containing no such chemical or other substances as would
interfere with the proper operation of the purifying plant, shall be computed
according to the contracts developed between the City and the industries
pursuant to Section 100.13 hereof.
   7.   For all users identified by the City as contributors to the lagoon
treatment facilities as pertains to the capital improvements. Therefore, in the
event any user so identified should close its plant or cease operations, the
user(s) shall continue to pay the capital-cost-recovery charge until all
capital improvement obligations incurred by the City for the lagoons have been
paid in full.
   8.   Rates for unusual use may be established pursuant to Section 384.84(6)
(a)(2) of the Code of Iowa, as outlined in Section 100.13 hereof.
100.06   SERVICE CHARGES.
Unit rates for wastewater shall be assessed to all customers and users of the
wastewater facility in an equitable manner according to the following schedule.
The rate schedule will be reviewed on an annual basis. The staff will make
recommendations to the Council concerning any needed modifications. A copy of
the rate schedule will be available at the office of the Clerk.
Residential, Commercial, Industrial Rates
Effective on the bills after February 2016
Residential, Commercial, Industrial Rates
Effective on the bills after February 2016
RESIDENTIAL
Monthly Minimum
First 1,000 gallons or $25.00
less
Commodity Charge – This rate shall increase by 1.0% on July 1, 2016, and
shall increase by 1.0% on the first day of July each year thereafter.
Over 1,000 gallons     $7.11
Infrastructure Fee     $12.00/month*
COMMERCIAL
Monthly Minimum
First 1,000 gallons or $25.00
less
Commodity Charge – This rate shall increase by 1.0% on July 1, 2016, and
shall increase by 1.0% on the first day of July each year thereafter.
Over 1,000 gallons     $7.11
Infrastructure Fee     $12.60/month*
INDUSTRIAL
Monthly Minimum
First 1,000 gallons or $25.00
less
Commodity Charge – This rate shall increase by 1.0% on July 1, 2016, and
shall increase by 1.0% on the first day of July each year thereafter.
Over 1,000 gallons     $7.11
Infrastructure Fee     $52.50/month*
*Monthly Infrastructure Fee reviewed annually by the Council beginning with
fiscal year 2017-2018.
 
100.07   CHARGES AND FEES.
The City may adopt charges and fees, which may include:
   1.   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the City’s
pretreatment program.
   2.   Fees for monitoring, testing, inspections, and surveillance procedures.
   3.   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction.
   4.   Fees for permit applications.
   5.   Fees for filing appeals.
   6.   Fees to specific contributing industrial users for consistent removal,
by the City, of pollutants otherwise subject to federal categorical
pretreatment standard.
   7.   Other fees as the City may deem necessary to carry out the requirements
contained herein.
   8.   City’s Scheduling of Fees. These fees relate solely to the matters
identified above and are separate from all other fees chargeable by the City.
      A.   A surveillance monitoring fee of $350.00 per installation of
equipment shall be assessed against each user for which the City, rather than
the user, installs surveillance monitoring equipment for the purpose of
conducting wastewater sampling.
      B.   A sample fee of $130.00 per site visit for the purpose of wastewater
sample collection shall be assessed against each user.
      C.   Fees for investigating accidental discharges shall be based on the
time expended at $23.00 per hour.
      D.   Laboratory testing fees shall be based on actual expenses incurred
for each parameter tested as specified in a fee schedule which the City shall
approve and issue from time to time.
      E.   Construction permit fee shall be assessed in the amount of $25.00
for residential and commercial permits or $75.00 for an industrial permit to
the City to cover the cost of issuing the permit and supervising, regulating,
and inspecting the work.
      F.   A Wastewater Discharge Permit application fee shall be assessed for
each request for a Wastewater Discharge Permit in the amount of $25.00. Renewal
Wastewater Discharge Permit applications for permit renewal shall be assessed
for each request in the amount of $200.00. An additional fee shall be assessed
in the amount of $100.00 for past due applications.
      G.   An appeal filing fee shall be assessed in the amount of $100.00.
100.08   CONNECTION FEES.
The charge for making connection to an existing public sewer in the near
vicinity of a property, for which it is desired that service be provided, shall
be determined as follows:
   1.   Where the property to be served has been specifically assessed for the
sewer facilities prior to the time of the application for connection, or there
is a Developer’s Agreement in place, there shall be no additional connection
charge. However, if at the time of assessment, a deficiency was allowed, then
the sewer connection fee shall be equal to the deficiency previously allowed.
   2.   Where the property to be served has not been assessed and said sewer
was built through assessments, the connection charge shall be equal to the
charge assessed to said property as recorded on the associated Assessment
Schedule.
   3.   Where the property to be served has not been subject to assessment for
the cost of the public sewer and the cost thereof was paid by revenue funds or
general taxation, the sewer connection charge shall be:
      A.   Commercial - $1,000.00
      B.   Residential - $500.00
      C.   Multi-family Dwellings - $100.00 per unit with a minimum of $500.00
100.09   CROSS AND LATERAL SEWER CONNECTION CHARGES.
Before a permit for a new cross or lateral sewer connection to a main sewer
shall be granted, the applicant shall have complied with the terms and
conditions for such connection established by the Council. Such terms and
conditions may include, but not be limited to, engineering design, construction
standards, requirements for inspection of construction of the applicant’s
sewer, and the setting of equitable fees to be paid for the right to connect to
public sewer and all facilities to which the sewer will be contributory.
100.10   USE OF SEWER CONNECTION CHARGES.
Such charges shall be due without regard to whether the facilities involved,
trunk sewers or POTW have been paid for in full or whether prior assessments
and other resources will cover all costs for such facilities. Connection
charges shall be deemed a refund of amounts yet to be or previously paid by the
City from its funds for the additional service made available to the applicant.
100.11   WHERE CONNECTIONS PERMITTED.
No building sewer connection shall be made to a public sanitary sewer which is
not in front of the property to be served unless the public sewer cannot
feasibly be extended and the building sewer can be connected without creating
difficulties for other utilities in the street or unless any such difficulties
are offset by a definite public advantage in having the connection. No building
sewer shall be connected directly into a manhole more than six inches above the
flow line therein. Where a public sewer is extended by an applicant at their
own expense, it shall be constructed in accordance with the specifications of
the City for public sewers and connection charges may be reduced by the cost
thereof, in whole or in part.
100.12   VIOLATIONS.
Any person, firm, or corporation who shall make a connection without paying
connection charges due under this chapter, or in any manner violate the other
terms of this chapter, shall be in violation of this Code.
100.13   SPECIAL AGREEMENTS PERMITTED.
No statement in this chapter shall be construed as preventing a special
agreement, arrangement, or contract pursuant to Section 384.84(6)(a)(2) of the
Code of Iowa between the City and any industrial concern whereby an individual
waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted subject to special
conditions, rate, and cost as established by the Council. Contractual rates in
effect as of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter are
hereby ratified and confirmed.
100.14   REVIEW OF CHARGES.
The charges or rates shall be reviewed not less than biennially and adjusted
and maintained so as to be sufficient in each year for payment of the proper
and reasonable expenses of operation, repair, replacement, and maintenance of
the Water Pollution Control Facilities, for the payment of the requirements of
a sinking fund to meet principal and interest and other charges for outstanding
bonds issued to pay the cost of construction of said facilities, and to build
up and maintain a requisite depreciation fund. Annually, in conjunction with a
regular billing, the City shall notify each user of the component charges which
comprise the wastewater service charge.
CHAPTER 101
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM - ENFORCEMENT
 
101.01 Notice of Violation  101.07 Legal Action
101.02 Orders               101.08 Continuing Offense
101.03 Types of Orders      101.09 Termination of Service
101.04 Disconnection        101.10 Reinstatement of Service
101.05 Right to Hearing     101.11 Additional Remedies
101.06 Revocation of Permit
 
101.01   NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
The Wastewater Superintendent may issue a notice of violation with or without
an order against any user deemed to be in violation of these Sanitary Sewer
chapters. The notice of violation shall be served upon the user either by
personal delivery or by first class mail addressed to the user, except that an
immediate cease and desist order may be written or oral, and may also be served
by telephone. The notice of violation shall specify the following:
   1.   Date and time of issuance.
   2.   Date(s), time(s), and place(s) of violation, the nature of the
violation, the substances discharged, where ascertainable, and the volume of
the discharge, where applicable.
   3.   Reference to the pertinent section of this chapter under which the
violation is charged.
   4.   Reference to the pertinent section of this chapter establishing
penalties for the violation.
   5.   The right of the alleged violator to present to the Wastewater
Superintendent written explanations, information, or other materials in answer
to the notice of violation, including any defenses.
Within 30 days of the notice, the user shall submit a plan for the satisfactory
correction of the problem to the City.
101.02   ORDERS.
Whenever the Wastewater Superintendent has determined that any user has
violated these Sanitary Sewer chapters or other applicable laws or regulations
which the City is authorized to enforce, the Wastewater Superintendent may
issue an order, with or without a notice of violation and whether or not a
notice of violation was previously issued, to take actions deemed appropriate
by the Wastewater Superintendent under the circumstances.
101.03   TYPES OF ORDERS.
The following orders may be issued by the Wastewater Superintendent:
   1.   Immediate Cease and Desist. An order to immediately cease and desist
from discharging any wastewater or pollutant which presents or may present
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment or could cause interference with the operation of the POTW.
The order shall be final and in effect until a hearing, if requested, is
concluded and a final decision is made by the Wastewater Superintendent
pursuant to this chapter.
   2.   Order to Show Cause. The Wastewater Superintendent may issue an order
to show cause why an order to cease discharge by a certain time and date or
perform other actions should not be issued. The order may contain conditions or
requirements as deemed appropriate by the Wastewater Superintendent, including,
but not limited to, a requirement to do the following:
      A.   Submit samples.
      B.   Install sampling or monitoring equipment.
      C.   Submit reports.
      D.   Permit access for inspection, sampling, tests, monitoring and
investigations.
      E.   Install, operate, upgrade, and maintain pretreatment equipment.
      F.   Reduce or eliminate a discharge or pollutants in a discharge.
      G.   Payment of applicable fees.
   3.   Content of Orders. Any order issued by the Wastewater Superintendent
shall contain the facts and reasons and grounds for its issuance, and the
remedial action ordered as well as the time within which such action shall be
taken. No such order shall be deemed insufficient, however, for inconsequential
errors and omissions in the facts and reasons and grounds for the order.
Multiple orders may be issued simultaneously or in combination as a single
order by the Wastewater Superintendent with respect to a single user.
101.04   DISCONNECTION.
The Wastewater Superintendent may physically disconnect a user from the
collection system if the user violates any provision of a final order or an
issued immediate cease and desist order (whether final or not).
101.05   RIGHT TO HEARING.
A hearing may be requested in writing by any user deeming itself aggrieved by
any notice of violation, order, surcharge, or action on a permit by the
Wastewater Superintendent within 30 calendar days after the notice of
violation, order, notice of a surcharge, or action on a permit has been served
upon such user. The request for a hearing shall be submitted to the Wastewater
Superintendent in writing and the Wastewater Superintendent shall provide a
written response outlining further actions within 30 days of receipt of the
request of a hearing.
101.06   REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   1.   Conditions for Revocation. Any user who violates any condition of a
Wastewater Discharge Permit, or any of the following, is subject to having the
permit revoked in accordance with the procedures of this section:
      A.   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      B.   Failure of the user to report substantial changes in process
activity or in volume or character or pollutants being introduced into the POTW
at least 90 days prior to such change;
      C.   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      D.   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring, or sampling;
      E.   Violation of permit conditions;
      F.   Violation or breach of any treatment agreement;
      G.   Failure to report an upset, failure, or bypass of user’s
pretreatment facilities;
      H.   Failure to pay fines, fees, or sewer users charges;
      I.   Failure to follow enforcement orders or compliance of schedules;
      J.   Failure to correct a condition that impedes or alters the POTW’s
ability to monitor the user’s discharge or has the potential to cause
interference or pass through.
   2.   Procedures for Revocation.
      A.   Any permit issued to a user may be revoked for any action which is
subject to revocation under this section. No revocation shall be issued except
upon notice delivered to the users by mailing the notice in the regular mail at
the address listed on the Wastewater Discharge Permit, a minimum of 10 days
prior to the date set for hearing before the Wastewater Superintendent. Such
notice shall inform the user of the time, date, and place of the hearing, the
purpose of the hearing and shall set out the reasons therefor.
      B.   If, after having a hearing, the Wastewater Superintendent makes a
finding based on substantial evidence that action subject to revocation has
occurred as alleged, the Wastewater Superintendent may suspend, continue
suspension of, or revoke the permit; the determination of such action shall be
in the discretion of the Wastewater Superintendent and shall be dependent upon
the circumstances surrounding violations by the user and their severity.
      C.   The decision of the Wastewater Superintendent to suspend, continue
suspension, or to revoke the permit of a user whose discharge occurs within the
City may be appealed to the Council. The decision of the Wastewater
Superintendent to suspend, continue suspension, or to revoke the permit of a
user whose discharge occurs within another constituent community may be
appealed to the Council. In order to appeal such a decision, written notice of
appeal must be filed with the Clerk within three days after receipt of the
decision. Failure to file such written notice of appeal shall constitute a
waiver of right to appeal the decision of the Wastewater Superintendent.
      D.   The notice of appeal shall state the grounds for such appeal and
shall be delivered personally or by certified mail to the Clerk. An appeal
hearing before the Council shall be scheduled at or before the next regular
Council meeting, if such notice is received by 5:00 p.m. on the Wednesday
before the next regular Council meeting. If notice is not received by the above
designated time, the hearing will be scheduled at or before the next following
Council meeting, if notice is received within three days after receipt of the
decision by the Wastewater Superintendent. The hearing may be continued for
good cause. The hearing shall be confined to the record made before the
Wastewater Superintendent and the arguments of the parties or the
representatives, but no additional evidence shall be taken. After such hearing,
the Council may affirm or reverse the order of the Wastewater Superintendent.
Such written decision shall be filed with the Clerk within three days after the
hearing, or any continued session thereof.
      E.   A user whose permit has been revoked shall not be eligible for
another permit until 30 days after the violating conditions have been corrected
to the satisfaction of the Wastewater Superintendent.
101.07   LEGAL ACTION.
If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes, or other wastes into the
City’s wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of these Sanitary
Sewer chapters, federal or State pretreatment requirements, or any order of the
City, the City Attorney may commence an action for appropriate legal or
equitable relief in the court of this County.
101.08   CONTINUING OFFENSE.
Each and every day, or portion thereof, of any violation of these Sanitary
Sewer chapters or a use permit or a final order issued under this chapter by
any user shall constitute a separate and new violation by such user and shall
be punishable as herein provided for civil and criminal penalties.
101.09   TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
When ordered by the Council or when fees and surcharges remain delinquent, the
following notice shall be forwarded by registered mail, return receipt
requested, certified mail, or personal service to the occupants at the address
of the building being served by the City:
NOTICE OF INTENT TO TERMINATE SERVICE
You are hereby notified that due to (insert reason for termination), the
wastewater service to the building located at (insert address) will be
terminated within 10 days hereafter unless you have corrected the above
situation. Your service will be disconnected, and your building will be red
tagged as unfit for human occupancy on the 40th day after the date of this
notice.
Date ______________.
CITY OF POSTVILLE, IOWA
by:__________________________
Wastewater Superintendent
The City hereby declares that it is against public policy for a building to be
occupied by human inhabitants which has been red tagged by the Wastewater
Superintendent after appropriate notice has been given that the building is “a
public nuisance and unfit for human occupancy.” In the event that such user
fails to correct the cause for the above notice, the following notice shall be
forwarded by registered mail, return receipt requested, certified mail, or
personal service to the occupants of the building and also affixed to the
building or housing unit within a building:
NOTICE OF TERMINATION
You are hereby notified that there has been no response to the Notice of Intent
to Terminate Service and the 10 day period stated therein has lapsed. You are
hereby notified that on (here insert date five days after service of this
notice), the City will physically disconnect the building sewer to your
building from the sewage system to which it is connected and will red tag the
building located at (here insert address) as “unfit for human occupancy.” Dated
_________________.
CITY OF POSTVILLE, IOWA
By: ___________________________
Wastewater Superintendent
The manner of severance and procedure for disconnection shall be determined by
the Public Works Department. Upon completion of said disconnection, the Clerk
shall forward to the occupant of the building by registered mail, return
receipt requested, certified mail, or personal service a bill for the cost of
making the disconnection, including all costs for labor and materials and a
$100.00 service charge for City supervision.
101.10   REINSTATEMENT OF SERVICE.
In the event of severance of service, the service may be reinstated in the
following manner:
   1.   Upon payment to the City of any delinquency in full, plus penalties,
plus the cost of the disconnection and the $100.00 City supervision fee, and an
inspection by the Wastewater Superintendent to determine whether the original
cause for termination has been corrected, the City will issue a permit for
reconnection of the building service line to the POTW.
Such reconnection costs, plus inspection fees for the City, shall be at the
sole expense of the user.
   2.   Upon reconnection and payment of all costs described above, the City,
through its agents, shall remove the red tag from the building and the building
shall, so far as the City is concerned, be “fit for human occupancy.”
101.11   ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   1.   In addition to remedies available to the City set forth elsewhere in
this chapter, if the City is notified of a violation or fined by the Iowa DNR
or USEPA for violations of the City’s NPDES permit or violations of water
quality standards as the result of a discharge of pollutants by identifiable
user(s), then the fine, including all City legal, sampling, analytical testing,
costs and any other related costs shall be charged to the responsible user(s).
Such charge shall be in addition to any other remedies the City may have under
this chapter, at law or in equity.
   2.   If the discharge from any user results in a deposition, obstruction,
damage, or other impairment to the POTW, the user shall become liable to the
City for any expense, loss or damage caused by the violations or discharge. The
City may add to the user’s charges and fees the cost assessed for any cleaning
or repair, or replacement work caused by the violations or discharge.
CHAPTER 102
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM - PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE
 
102.01 Violations Constitute a Public Nuisance 102.04 Cumulative Remedies
102.02 Surcharges                              102.05 Criminal Penalties
102.03 Civil Judicial Relief
 
102.01   VIOLATIONS CONSTITUTE A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
Violations of these Sanitary Sewer chapters, a permit, or a final order are
hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance.
102.02   SURCHARGES.
In addition to prosecution and the imposition of penalties for violations, a
user violating these Sanitary Sewer chapters, a permit, or a final order shall
be subject to one or more surcharges in accordance these Sanitary Sewer
chapters.
102.03   CIVIL JUDICIAL RELIEF.
The Wastewater Superintendent is hereby empowered, with the City Attorney, to
institute legal proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction of the
abatement of any nuisance, and to seek relief for violations of these Sanitary
Sewer chapters, a use permit, or a final order. The Wastewater Superintendent
may seek temporary or permanent injunctive relief, damages, civil penalties not
to exceed $1,000.00 per day per violation, costs, and such other relief as a
Court may order. The Wastewater Superintendent may also seek collection of
unpaid surcharges and penalties from the user.
102.04   CUMULATIVE REMEDIES.
The imposition of a single penalty, order, damage, or surcharge upon a user for
a violation of these Sanitary Sewer chapters, a permit or a final order shall
not preclude the imposition by a court of competent jurisdiction of a
combination of any or all of the sanctions and remedies or additional sanctions
and remedies with respect to the same violation, consistent with applicable
statutory limitations. A criminal citation and prosecution of a criminal action
against a user shall not be dependent upon or held in abeyance during any
civil, judicial or City administrative proceeding, conference or hearing
regarding the user.
102.05   CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
Any user who is found to have violated an order of the Council or who willfully
or negligently failed to comply with any provision of these Sanitary Sewer
chapters and the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder, shall
be in violation of this Code. Each day on which a violation shall occur or
continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense. In addition, the City
may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees, court costs, court reporters’ fees, and
other expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law against the person
found to have violated these Sanitary Sewer chapters or the orders, rules,
regulations, and agreements issued hereunder.
CHAPTER 103
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
 
103.01 Private System Required     103.04 Waste Haulers - Waste Hauling Permit
103.02 Sanitary Operation Required 103.05 Waste Haulers Regulations
103.03 Inspections
 
103.01   PRIVATE SYSTEM REQUIRED.
All houses, buildings or properties which are required by these Sanitary Sewer
chapters or by other authority to have sanitary or industrial wastewater
facilities and are located where the POTW is not available shall be equipped at
the owner’s expense, with suitable wastewater facilities connected to a private
wastewater disposal system which complies with the provisions of the County
Health Department and all applicable requirements of the Code of Iowa. This
section shall not apply to any private system which discharges to the POTW or
which discharges directly to a natural outlet by authority of a separate NPDES
permit and in compliance with applicable State and federal laws. Whenever the
POTW extends service to an area whereby it is available within 200 feet of the
property line, the private system shall be properly abandoned, and the
facilities shall be connected to the POTW in accordance with these Sanitary
Sewer chapters.
103.02   SANITARY OPERATION REQUIRED.
The owner shall operate and maintain private wastewater disposal facilities in
a sanitary manner at all times in accordance with applicable laws and
regulations and at no expense to the City. The facilities shall be subject to
inspection by the City at reasonable times should the City deem it necessary.
103.03   INSPECTIONS.
The City may inspect the private systems when the Wastewater Superintendent
deems it necessary. The inspector shall have the authority to require the owner
of the private system to make necessary repairs to the system or properly
maintain the system, including cleaning. Should the owner fail to make the
necessary repairs or perform the required maintenance in a timely manner, the
City may authorize the work and assess the owner. All outside water closets,
privy vaults, and septic tanks within the sanitary district shall be abandoned
and removed on order of the inspector, where there is sanitary sewerage and
water within 200 feet of the nearest point or property line which said water
closets, privy or privy vaults or septic tanks are located. Whenever an outside
water closet or a privy is ordered removed by the inspector, it may be also
ordered that a sanitary toilet or toilet facilities be installed and be
connected with the sanitary sewer and the costs thereof collected as provided
by statute.
103.04   WASTE HAULERS - WASTE HAULING PERMIT.
No person shall engage in the business of cleaning privy vaults, cesspools, and
septic tanks without first obtaining from the Clerk a permit therefor good for
one year, which shall be issued upon a showing by the applicant that said
applicant is equipped to comply with the terms of this chapter and the
applicant’s equipment has been inspected at the time of the application for the
permit. Any permit may be revoked upon the violation of the terms of this
chapter by a permittee, and no permit shall be issued to any person who has
violated the terms of this chapter. The fee for the permit shall be $25.00
annually.
103.05   WASTE HAULERS - REGULATIONS.
All waste haulers engaged in the collection of refuse matter and the removal of
the contents of septic tanks, vaults, and cesspools shall observe and conform
to the following rules and regulations:
   1.   Night soil and the contents of cesspools shall be transported in
airtight and watertight tanks or vessels only, which must be so constructed and
used as to avoid all offensive sights and odors and to prevent any spillage of
the contents.
   2.   When work on any vault or cesspool is commenced, it shall be prosecuted
without interruption or delay until the work is completed, the vault or
cesspool thoroughly emptied and cleaned with the premises restored to as good
condition as before the work was undertaken.
   3.   Diligence and care shall be exercised in all cases to avoid all
offensive sights and odors and the vehicles shall not be driven through the
Business District of the City between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., except upon
permission in writing from the Wastewater Superintendent.
   4.   Waste haulers shall deposit night soil at the water pollution control
plant at 500 gallons per vehicle load; a $20.00 load fee shall be billed to the
waste hauler by the water pollution control plant and the waste hauler shall
pay said amount as billed to the Clerk.
   5.   No wastes or wastewater shall be discharged by any user or person into
the POTW from a vehicle which transported the waste or wastewater to the point
of discharge, unless the discharge is approved by the Wastewater Superintendent
in writing prior to the discharge. The Wastewater Superintendent may specify
the location to be used for the discharge and any other terms and conditions
for the discharges, including a requirement for a permit where applicable.
CHAPTER 104
RENDERING
104.01 Purpose                       104.09 Rules for Operation
104.02 Legislative Authority         104.10 Use of Streets Prohibited
104.03 Penalty for Violation         104.11 Rendering Establishment License
                                     Required
104.04 Establishing Rules and        104.12 Storage Facility License Required
Regulations
104.05 Approval of Plans             104.13 Transport Vehicle License Required
104.06 Nuisance Declared             104.14 Offense or Nuisance Prohibited
104.07 Methods of Disposal           104.15 Nuisance Defined
104.08 License Application, Fee, and
Issuance
 
104.01   PURPOSE.
The regulations established in this chapter are in accordance with a
comprehensive plan for the purpose of promoting health, safety, morals, and the
general welfare of the community. They have been designed to regulate the
location, the equipment and the mode of operation of the rendering
establishments or business within the jurisdictional limits of the City, as
defined in this chapter, for the purpose of protecting the general public as
well as the residents of the City from health hazards arising from unsanitary
conditions which may exist in conjunction with the operation of rendering
establishments.
104.02   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY.
The provisions of this chapter are adopted in the exercise of the powers
granted to the City by the law including, but not limited to, the provisions of
Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa.
104.03   PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
Any person, being the owner, operator, or person in charge at the time of the
establishment or any phase of the rendering business, who shall violate any
provisions of this chapter shall be in violation of this Code. Every day on
which a violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
104.04   ESTABLISHING RULES AND REGULATIONS.
The Clerk or Administrator is hereby empowered to promulgate and enforce such
reasonable rules and regulations as deemed necessary and proper to effectively
protect the public health and be consistent with the provisions of this
chapter. The Clerk or Administrator or their authorized representative is
authorized to enter and inspect all rendering businesses at any reasonable hour
or at any hour the business is in operation.
104.05   APPROVAL OF PLANS.
No permit or license for the use, construction, reconstruction, or repair of
any building or structure used or to be used as a part of a rendering business
shall be issued by any department of the City until the plan therefor shall
show adequate means for carrying out the provisions of this chapter and until
such plan shall have been approved by the Clerk or Administrator.
104.06   NUISANCE DECLARED.
All dead animals, dead fowl, dead fish, inedible offal, meat scraps, bones,
suet, feathers, unrendered animal fat, waste cooking greases, and similar
animal matter located within the jurisdictional limits of the City not properly
kept under refrigeration or not disposed of as garbage under the provisions of
this chapter are hereby declared a nuisance and menace to the public health,
requiring the prompt collection and disposal thereof under the authority and
direction of the Clerk or Administrator.
104.07   METHODS OF DISPOSAL.
All matter declared a nuisance in Section 104.06, which is derived in whole or
in part, directly or indirectly, from the carcass or carcasses of any cattle,
horses, mules, asses, sheep, goats, hogs, or other livestock, domestic animals
or domestic fowl which at the time of death had any disease or diseases for
which Chapter 167 of the Code of Iowa proscribes or prescribes the manner in
which the carcass or carcasses shall be disposed of, shall be disposed of in a
manner permitted by said chapter. All matter declared a nuisance in Section
104.06, which is not subject to Chapter 167 of the Code of Iowa, shall be
turned over or delivered by the owner thereof:
   1.   Directly to a rendering establishment having a current license as
provided in this chapter; or
   2.   To a collector of material for processing having a current license as
provided in this chapter; or
   3.   To a sanitary landfill designated by the Clerk or Administrator. The
person having such animals and fowl in their possession and desiring to avail
himself of this means of disposal shall contact the Department of Public Works
for the location of the sanitary landfill, shall have such animals and fowl
transported there at their expense, and shall supply sufficient personnel to
unload and place same where designated.
104.08   LICENSE APPLICATION, FEE, AND ISSUANCE.
Every person who is operating or desires to operate a rendering business or any
phase thereof, shall immediately make application in writing to the Clerk or
Administrator, upon forms prescribed and furnished by such City officer, for
all required permits to operate and do business within the jurisdiction limits
of the City, and shall pay therefor an annual fee based upon the cost of
inspecting the facilities of such rendering business or phase thereof to be
computed as prescribed in this section. The annual fee shall include the cost
of reinspecting the facilities as a result of the failure to keep such
facilities in such a manner as to meet the requirements of this chapter. No
license shall be issued for any premises which are in violation of the zoning
ordinance of the City. The fees shall be computed as follows:
   1.   Collector’s License. Amount based upon the number of transport vehicles
to be inspected, at $50.00 per vehicle per fiscal year.
   2.   Rendering Materials Storage Facility License. $200.00 per fiscal year
when such a facility is not an integral part of a rendering establishment.
   3.   Rendering Establishment License. $500.00 per fiscal year.
All fees shall be payable to the City and shall accompany the application for
license. A license for the operation of a rendering business shall be issued
under the corporate seal of the City, shall be signed by the Clerk or
Administrator, and shall authorize the person therein named to establish,
maintain, and operate a rendering business at the place designated in such
license. Such license shall expire in the month one year from the date of
original issuance or renewal and shall be renewed in each successive year
thereafter. Following the receipt of an application for a license and proof
that the required annual fee has been paid, the Clerk or Administrator will
conduct such investigation as deemed necessary to determine whether the
applicant’s premises, personnel and equipment are proper and adequate for the
services proposed or offered. Upon a determination by the Clerk or
Administrator that the applicant has met the requirements of this chapter, the
Clerk or Administrator will issue the applicant the appropriate license. The
collector’s rendering materials, storage facility, or rendering establishment
license will be displayed upon the wall of the main office located upon the
premises for which the license is issued. Should the application for license be
denied, three fourths of the fee will be returned.
104.09   RULES FOR OPERATION.
Reserved.
104.10   USE OF STREETS PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any person not having a current collector’s license, issued
pursuant to this chapter, to use the streets, alleys, or avenues of the City
for the purpose of collecting, removing, or transporting animal matter declared
a nuisance in Section
104.06.
104.11   RENDERING ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any owner, operator, or person in charge at the time to
operate a rendering establishment within the jurisdictional limits of the City
without having a current rendering establishment license issued pursuant to
this chapter. A separate license is required for each premises.
104.12   STORAGE FACILITY LICENSE REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any owner, operator, or person in charge at the time to
engage in the rendering business by maintaining, operating or causing to be
operated any separate premises as a facility where animal matter, declared to
be a nuisance in Section
104.06, is collected or stored pending further processing or disposal unless
the aforesaid separate premises has a current rendering materials storage
facility license issued pursuant to this chapter or is an integral part of a
currently licensed rendering establishment. A separate license is required for
each premises requiring a rendering materials storage facility license.
104.13   TRANSPORT VEHICLE LICENSE REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any person to operate or to cause another to operate a
transport vehicle upon the roads, highways, streets, alleys, or avenues within
the jurisdictional limits of the City for the purpose of collecting, removing,
or transporting animal matter declared a nuisance in Section 104.06 above,
unless said transport vehicle is covered by a current collector’s license and
meets the requirements for such vehicles set forth in this chapter.
104.14   OFFENSE OR NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any person within the jurisdictional limits of the City to
operate a rendering business or any phase thereof unless the rendering business
or phase thereof shall at all times be so conducted as to create no offense or
nuisance.
104.15   NUISANCE DEFINED.
All or any combination of the following conditions or places within the
jurisdictional limits of the City are hereby specifically declared to be a
nuisance dangerous to public health punishable as such and shall be abated.
   1.   Any condition or place allowed to exist which permits any dangerous,
unwholesome, nauseous, or offensive odors, gases or fumes to escape into the
open air in such amounts as to be substantially offensive, discomfortable and
annoying to any community, family, or person of ordinary sensibilities, tastes,
and habits at a distance of more than 200 feet from the building, premises, or
processing area where such odors, gases or fumes emanated; or
   2.   Any condition or place allowed to exist which constitutes a breeding
place for flies; or
   3.   Any condition or place allowed to exist where sewage, sewerage, human
excreta, wastewater, garbage, or any other matter is deposited, stored,
discharged, or exposed in such a way as to be a potential instrument or medium
in the transmission of disease to or between any person or persons; or
   4.   Any condition or place allowed to exist which harbors rats; or
   5.   Any condition or place allowed to exist which may be proven to
injuriously affect the public health; or
   6.   Any collection of water in which mosquitoes are breeding.
CHAPTER 105
INTEGRATED RENDERING PLANTS
 
105.01 Purpose                105.07 Nuisance Defined
105.02 Legislative Authority  105.08 Nuisance - Exception
105.03 Penalty for Violation  105.09 Methods of Disposal
105.04 Establishing Rules and 105.10 Integrated Rendering Plant License
Regulations                   Required
105.05 Approval of Plans      105.11 License Application, Fee, and
                              Issuance
105.06 Nuisance Prohibited    105.12 Rules for Operation
 
105.01   PURPOSE.
The regulations established in this chapter are in accordance with a
comprehensive plan for the purpose of promoting health, safety, morals, and the
general welfare of the community. They have been designed to regulate the
location, the equipment, and the mode of operation of the integrated rendering
plant within the jurisdictional limits of the City, as defined in this chapter,
for the purpose of protecting the general public as well as the residents of
the City from health hazards arising from unsanitary conditions which may exist
in conjunction with the operation of integrated rendering plants.
105.02   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY.
The provisions of this chapter are adopted in the exercise of the powers
granted to the City by the law including, but not limited to, the provisions of
Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa.
105.03   PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
Any person being the owner, operator, or person in charge at the time of the
integrated rendering plant or any phase of the plant who shall violate any
provisions of this chapter shall be in violation of this Code of Ordinances.
Every day on which a violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
105.04   ESTABLISHING RULES AND REGULATIONS.
The Clerk or Administrator is hereby empowered to promulgate and enforce such
reasonable rules and regulations as deemed necessary and proper to effectively
protect the public health and be consistent with the provisions of this
chapter. The Clerk or Administrator or their authorized representative is
authorized to enter and inspect all integrated rendering plants at any
reasonable hour or at any hour the plant is in operation.
105.05   APPROVAL OF PLANS.
No permit or license for the use, construction, reconstruction, or repair of
any building or structure used or to be used as a part of an integrated
rendering plant shall be issued by any department of the City until the plan
therefor shall show adequate means for carrying out the provisions of this
chapter and until such plan shall have been approved by the Clerk or
Administrator.
105.06   NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any person within the jurisdictional limits of the City to
operate an integrated rendering plant or any phase thereof unless the
integrated rendering plant or phase thereof shall at all times be so conducted
as to create no nuisance.
105.07   NUISANCE DEFINED.
All dead animals, dead fowl, dead fish, inedible offal, meat scraps, bones,
suet, feathers, unrendered animal fat, waste cooking greases, and similar
animal matter located within the jurisdictional limits of the City and not
disposed of as garbage under the provisions of this chapter are hereby declared
a nuisance and menace to the public health, requiring the prompt collection and
disposal thereof under the authority and direction of the Clerk or
Administrator. In addition, any, all or any combination of the following
conditions or places within the jurisdictional limits of the City are hereby
specifically declared to be a nuisance and menace to the public health,
requiring the prompt collection and disposal thereof under the authority and
direction of the Clerk or Administrator.
   1.   Any condition or place allowed to exist which permits any dangerous,
unwholesome, nauseous, or offensive odors, gases or fumes to escape into the
open air in such amounts as to be substantially offensive, discomfortable and
annoying to any community, family, or person of ordinary sensibilities, tastes,
and habits at a distance of more than 200 feet from the building, premises, or
processing area where such odors, gases or fumes emanated; or
   2.   Any condition or place allowed to exist which constitutes a breeding
place for flies; or
   3.   Any condition or place allowed to exist where sewage, sewerage, human
excreta, wastewater, garbage, or any other matter is deposited, stored,
discharged, or exposed in such a way as to be a potential instrument or medium
in the transmission of disease to or between any person or persons; or
   4.   Any condition or place allowed to exist which harbors rats; or
   5.   Any condition or place allowed to exist which may be proven to
injuriously affect the public health; or
   6.   Any collection of water in which mosquitoes are breeding.
105.08   NUISANCE - EXCEPTION.
All dead animals, dead fowl, dead fish, inedible offal, meat scraps, bones,
suet, feathers, unrendered animal fat, waste cooking greases, and similar
animal matter located within the jurisdictional limits of the City and not
disposed of as garbage under the provisions of this chapter do not constitute a
nuisance when all of the following conditions are complied with:
   1.   The delivery vehicle’s container used for loading and transporting
carcasses or offal material is constructed in a manner to prevent parts or
liquids associated with the carcasses or offal material from escaping during
transport;
   2.   The delivery vehicle’s container is not overloaded with carcasses or
offal material;
   3.   The delivery vehicle is loaded at the slaughterhouse which is
contiguous to the integrated rendering plant and unloaded within the integrated
rendering plant;
   4.   Carcasses or offal material do not remain in a delivery vehicle’s
container for more than 12 hours; and
   5.   The delivery vehicle does not use municipal streets at any time for the
transport of the carcasses or offal material.
105.09   METHODS OF DISPOSAL.
All matter declared a nuisance in Section
105.06, which is derived in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, from the
carcass or carcasses of any cattle, horses, mules, asses, sheep, goats, hogs,
or other livestock, domestic animals or domestic fowl which at the time of
death had any disease or diseases for which Chapter 167 of the Code of Iowa
proscribes or prescribes the manner in which the carcass or carcasses shall be
disposed of, shall be disposed of in a manner permitted by said chapter. All
matter declared a nuisance in Section
105.07, which is not subject to Chapter 167 of the Code of Iowa, shall be
turned over or delivered by the owner thereof:
   1.   Directly to a rendering establishment having a current license as
provided in
Chapter 104; or
   2.   To a collector of material for processing having a current license as
provided in
Chapter 104; or
   3.   To a sanitary landfill designated by the Clerk or Administrator. The
person having such animals and fowl in their possession and desiring to avail
themselves of this means of disposal shall contact the Clerk or Administrator
for the location of the sanitary landfill, shall have such animals and fowl
transported there at their expense, and shall supply sufficient personnel to
unload and place same where designated.
105.10   INTEGRATED RENDERING PLANT LICENSE REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any owner, operator, or person in charge at the time to
operate an integrated rendering plant within the jurisdictional limits of the
City without having a current integrated rendering plant license issued
pursuant to this chapter. A separate license is required for each premises.
105.11   LICENSE APPLICATION, FEE, AND ISSUANCE.
Every person who is operating or desires to operate an integrated rendering
plant or any phase thereof, shall immediately make application in writing to
the Clerk or Administrator, upon forms prescribed and furnished by such City
officer, for all required permits to operate and do business within the
jurisdiction limits of the City, and shall pay therefore an annual fee of
$500.00 based upon the cost of inspecting the facilities of such integrated
rendering plant or phase thereof to be computed as prescribed in this section.
The annual fee shall include the cost of reinspecting the facilities to ensure
that such facilities meet the requirements of all City ordinances. No license
shall be issued for any premises which are in violation of any City ordinance.
All fees shall be payable to the City and shall accompany the application for
license. A license for the operation of an integrated rendering plant shall be
issued under the corporate seal of the City, shall be signed by the Clerk or
Administrator, and shall authorize the person therein named to establish,
maintain, and operate an integrated rendering plant at the place designated in
such license. Such license shall expire in the month two years from the date of
original issuance or renewal and shall be renewed every two years thereafter.
Following the receipt of an application for a license and proof that the
required annual fee has been paid, the Clerk or Administrator will conduct such
investigation as the City deems necessary to determine whether the applicant’s
premises, personnel and equipment comply with the requirements of the City
Ordinances. Upon a determination by the Clerk or Administrator that the
applicant has met the requirements of this chapter, the Clerk or Administrator
will issue the applicant a license. The integrated rendering plant license will
be displayed upon the wall of the main office located upon the premises for
which the license is issued. Should the application for license be denied,
three-fourths of the fee will be returned.
105.12   RULES FOR OPERATION.
Reserved.
CHAPTER 106
STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM UTILITY
 
106.01 Purpose                             106.04 Rates
106.02 Definitions                         106.05 Payment of Bills
106.03 Stormwater Drainage System District 106.06 Lien for Nonpayment
Established
                                           106.07 Use of Fund
 
106.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish a Stormwater Drainage System
District Utility and provide a means of funding the construction, operation,
and maintenance of stormwater management facilities including, but not limited
to, detention and retention basins, stormwater sewers, inlets, ditches and
drains, and cleaning of streets. The Council finds that the construction,
operation, and maintenance of the City’s storm and surface water drainage
system should be funded through charging users of property which may connect or
discharge directly, or indirectly, into the storm and surface water drainage
system.
106.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise,
the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Connection” means the physical act or process of tapping a public
stormwater sewer or drainage line, or joining onto an existing side sewer, for
the purpose of connecting private impervious surface or other storm and surface
water sources or systems to the public storm and surface water system. It also
includes creation or maintenance of impervious surface that causes or is likely
to cause an increase in the quantity or decrease in quality or both from the
natural state of stormwater runoff, and which drains, directly or indirectly,
to the storm and surface water system.
   2.   “Storm and surface water drainage system” means any combination of
publicly owned storm and surface water quantity and quality facilities, pumping
or lift facilities, storm and secondary drain pipes and culverts, open
channels, creeks and ditches, force mains, laterals, manholes, catch basins and
inlets, including the grates and covers thereof, detention and retention
facilities, laboratory facilities and equipment, and any other publicly owned
facilities for the collection, conveyance, treatment and disposal of storm and
surface water system within the City, to which sanitary sewage flows are not
intentionally admitted.
   3.   “Unit” means each household, each place of commerce, education,
government, religion, or each industry, whether in a single building on a
single lot or in a multiple-use building on a single lot or multiple lot
complex. Each unit shall be charged individually, but where the complex is
billed under one combined service account, the recipient of that bill shall be
deemed the user and receive the total combined storm water drainage system
district charge for that complex.
   4.   “User” means any person who uses property that maintains connection to,
discharges to, or otherwise receives services from the City for stormwater
management. The occupant of occupied property is deemed the user. If the
property is not occupied, the person who has the right to occupy it shall be
deemed the user.
 
106.03   STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM DISTRICT ESTABLISHED.
Pursuant to the authority of Section 384.84[5] of the Code of Iowa, the entire
City is hereby declared a Stormwater Drainage System District for the purpose
of establishing, imposing, adjusting, and providing for the collection of rates
for the operation and maintenance of stormwater management facilities. The
entire City, as increased from time to time by annexation, shall constitute a
single Stormwater Drainage System District.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84[5])
106.04   RATES.
Each user shall pay for storm and surface water drainage system service
provided by the City. The rates for the operation and maintenance of the
stormwater management facilities shall be collected by imposing a monthly rate
on each residential, commercial, and industrial user within the City. The
service charges shall be billed as part of a combined service account which
means a customer service account for the provision of two or more utility
services. The Council may adopt rules, charges, rates, and fees for the use of
the City’s storm and surface water system, and for services provided by the
City relating to that system. Such rules may include delinquency and interest
charges and penalties. Such charges and fees shall be just and equitable based
upon the actual costs of operation, maintenance, acquisition, extension and
replacement of the City’s system, the costs of bond repayment, regulation,
administration, and services of the City. The rates for the foregoing functions
shall be collected by imposing a monthly rate of $2.50 on every City
residential unit and $10.00 on every commercial or industrial unit.
106.05   PAYMENT OF BILLS.
All Stormwater Drainage System District charges shall be due and payable under
the same terms and conditions provided for payment of a combined service
account as contained in Section
92.04 of this Code of Ordinances. All City services may be discontinued in
accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Sections
92.07 and
92.08 relating to lien exemptions and lien notices shall also apply in the
event of a delinquent account.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84[2b] and [2d])
106.06   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
The owner of the premises served, and any lessee or tenant thereof shall be
jointly and severally liable for charges for the operation and maintenance of
the stormwater management facilities. Any such charges remaining unpaid and
delinquent shall constitute a lien upon the premises served and shall be
certified by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the same
manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84[3a])
106.07   USE OF FUND.
The money paid and collected pursuant to this chapter shall be held by the City
in a special fund to be expended only for the purpose of constructing,
operating, managing, repairing and maintaining all kinds of conduits, drains,
stormwater detention devices, flow impediments, ponds, ditches, sloughs, filter
strips, rip-raps, erosion control devices and any other things and activities
useful to the proper control, management, collection, drainage and disposition
of stormwater in the City.
CHAPTER 107
SOLID WASTE CONTROL
 
107.01 Purpose                           107.07 Littering Prohibited
107.02 Definitions                       107.08 Toxic and Hazardous Waste
107.03 Sanitary Disposal Required        107.09 Waste Storage Containers
107.04 Health and Fire Hazard            107.10 Prohibited Practices
107.05 Open Burning Restricted           107.11 Sanitary Disposal Project
                                         Designated
107.06 Separation of Yard Waste Required 107.12 Municipal Infraction
 
107.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters in this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Solid
Waste Control and Collection is to provide for the sanitary storage,
collection, and disposal of solid waste and, thereby, to protect the citizens
of the City from such hazards to their health, safety, and welfare as may
result from the uncontrolled disposal of solid waste.
107.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Collector” means any person authorized to gather solid waste from
public and private places.
   2.   “Commercial apartment” means a multiple-family dwelling containing
three or more separate dwelling units.
   3.   “Commercial solid waste” means solid waste resulting from the operation
of any commercial, industrial, agricultural, or other non-residential
establishment.
   4.   “Discard” means to place, cause to be placed, throw, deposit, or drop.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[1])
   5.   “Dwelling unit” means any room or group of rooms located within a
structure and forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used or
are intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
   6.   “Garbage” means all solid and semisolid, putrescible animal and
vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing,
serving, and consuming of food or of material intended for use as food, and all
offal, excluding useful industrial by-products, and includes all such
substances from all public and private establishments and from all residences.
(567 IAC 100.2)
   7.   “Landscape waste” means any vegetable or plant waste except garbage.
The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds,
leaves, grass, shrubbery, and yard trimmings.
(567 IAC 20.2)
   8.   “Litter” means any garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, waste materials, or
debris not exceeding 10 pounds in weight or 15 cubic feet in volume. Litter
includes but is not limited to empty beverage containers, cigarette butts, food
waste packaging, other food or candy wrappers, handbills, empty cartons, or
boxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[2])
   9.   “Owner” means, in addition to the record titleholder, any person
residing in, renting, leasing, occupying, operating, or transacting business in
any premises, and as between such parties the duties, responsibilities,
liabilities, and obligations hereinafter imposed shall be joint and several.
   10.   “Premises” means any real property, including but not limited to
buildings and improvements whether intended for residential, commercial, or
industrial use.
   11.   “Refuse” means putrescible and non-putrescible waste, including but
not limited to garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator residues, street cleanings,
market and industrial solid waste, and sewage treatment waste in dry or
semisolid form.
(567 IAC 100.2)
   12.   “Residential premises” means a single-family dwelling and any
multiple-family dwelling up to and including two separate dwelling units.
   13.   “Residential waste” means any refuse generated on the premises as a
result of residential activities. The term includes landscape waste grown on
the premises or deposited thereon by the elements, but excludes garbage, tires,
trade wastes, and any locally recyclable goods or plastics.
(567 IAC 20.2)
   14.   “Rubbish” means non-putrescible solid waste consisting of combustible
and non-combustible waste, such as ashes, paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, or litter of any kind.
(567 IAC 100.2)
   15.   “Sanitary disposal” means a method of treating solid waste so that it
does not produce a hazard to the public health or safety or create a nuisance.
(567 IAC 100.2)
   16.   “Sanitary disposal project” means all facilities and appurtenances
(including all real and personal property connected with such facilities) that
are acquired, purchased, constructed, reconstructed, equipped, improved,
extended, maintained, or operated to facilitate the final disposition of solid
waste without creating a significant hazard to the public health or safety, and
which are approved by the Director of the State Department of Natural
Resources. “Sanitary disposal project” does not include a pyrolysis or
gasification facility as defined in Section 455B.301 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
   17.   “Solid waste” means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar
discarded solid or semisolid materials, including but not limited to such
materials resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic
activities. Solid waste may include vehicles, as defined by Section 321.1 of
the Code of Iowa. Solid waste does not include any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
      A.   Hazardous waste regulated under the Federal Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6921-6934.
      B.   Hazardous waste as defined in Section 455B.411 of the Code of Iowa,
except to the extent that rules allowing for the disposal of specific wastes
have been adopted by the State Environmental Protection Commission.
      C.   Source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined in the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended to January 1, 1979.
      D.   Petroleum contaminated soil that has been remediated to acceptable
State or federal standards.
      E.   Steel slag which is a product resulting from the steel manufacturing
process and is managed as an item of value in a controlled manner and not as a
discarded material.
      F.   Material that is legitimately recycled pursuant to Section 455D.4A
of the Code of Iowa.
      G.   Post-use polymers or recoverable feedstocks that are any of the
following:
         (1)   Processed at a pyrolysis or gasification facility.
         (2)   Held at a pyrolysis or gasification facility prior to processing
to ensure production is not interrupted.
   18.   “Toxic and hazardous waste” means waste materials, including (but not
limited to) poisons, pesticides, herbicides, acids, caustics, pathological
waste, flammable or explosive materials, and similar harmful waste that
requires special handling and that must be disposed of in such a manner as to
conserve the environment and protect the public health and safety.
(567 IAC 100.2)
   19.   “Yard waste” means any debris such as grass clippings, leaves, garden
waste, brush, and trees. Yard waste does not include tree stumps.
107.03   SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
It is the duty of each owner to provide for the sanitary disposal of all refuse
accumulating on the owner’s premises before it becomes a nuisance. Any such
accumulation remaining on any premises for a period of more than 30 days shall
be deemed a nuisance and the City may proceed to abate such nuisances in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 50 or by initiating proper action in district court.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 657)
107.04   HEALTH AND FIRE HAZARD.
It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any premises, improved
or vacant, or on any public place, such quantities of solid waste that
constitute a health, sanitation, or fire hazard.
107.05   OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED.
No person shall allow, cause, or permit open burning of combustible materials
where the products of combustion are emitted into the open air without passing
through a chimney or stack, except that open burning is permitted in the
following circumstances:
(IAC, 567-23.2[455B] and 567-100.2)
   1.   Permit Not Required.
      A.   Disaster Rubbish. The open burning of rubbish, including landscape
waste, for the duration of the community disaster period in cases where an
officially declared emergency condition exists, provided that the burning of
any structures or demolished structures is conducted in accordance with 40 CFR
Section 61.145.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3a])
      B.   Trees and Tree Trimmings. The open burning of trees and tree
trimmings at a City-operated burning site, provided such burning is conducted
in compliance with the rules established by the State Department of Natural
Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3b])
      C.   Flare Stacks. The open burning or flaring of waste gases, provided
such open burning or flaring is conducted in compliance with applicable rules
of the State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3c])
      D.   Other Types. The following types of burning are also exempt from the
permit requirement:
         (1)   Fires used solely for the cooking out or barbecuing of food.
These fires must be no larger than two feet in diameter, performed in an
approved container constructed of steel, brick or masonry and be fueled with
clean materials such as wood, charcoal, or natural or propane gas.
         (2)   Campfires, burning clean wood material, when in association with
camping out or similar related recreational activities, provided that these
fires are no larger than three feet in diameter. Burning after dark is
permitted, provided the fire is supervised.
         (3)   Open burning in portable, outdoor fireplaces is permitted.
   2.   Permit Required. An Open Burning Permit from the City, which is also
signed by the Fire Chief, shall be required for the following types of open
burning:
      A.   Recreational Fires. Open fires for cooking, heating, and recreation,
which exceed the limits of Subparagraph D(1) above.
      B.   Ceremonial Burning. Fires for ceremonial or recreational purposes
such as American Legion flag burning, pep rallies, religious ceremonies, etc.
These fires must be under the legitimate sponsorship of a bona fide civic,
fraternal, religious, educational, or similar organization and must comply with
all other applicable provisions of this section.
      C.   Training Fires. Fires set for the purpose of conducting bona fide
training of public or industrial employees in firefighting methods, provided
that the training fires are conducted in compliance with rules established by
the State Department of Natural Resources.
      D.   Any and all other open burning not otherwise excluded by Subsection
1 herein.
   3.   Burning Restrictions.
      A.   Fires in approved containers must be located no closer than 15 feet
from a structure.
      B.   Uncontained fires must be located no closer than 25 feet from a
structure or combustible material. Conditions which could cause a fire to
spread within 25 feet of a structure shall be eliminated prior to ignition.
   4.   Variance. Any person wishing to conduct open burning of materials not
permitted herein may make application for a variance to the Council.
   5.   General Regulations.
      A.   The Fire Chief may prohibit any bonfire or outdoor rubbish fire if
the Fire Chief deems such fires are hazardous to health or welfare.
      B.   Burning must be conducted during the dates specified on the permit.
      C.   Fires must be attended at all times during the burning. The
attendant should have the burning permit in his or her possession at the time
of burning.
      D.   Burning must be conducted in a safe and reasonable manner.
      E.   Burning is restricted to materials listed on the burning permit.
      F.   No combustible material may be brought onto a property from outside
the property for the express purpose of burning, except for the use in general
home heating or cooking.
      G.   No burning of any kind is allowed on the public right-of-way.
      H.   Rubber tires shall not be burned under any circumstances.
   6.   Violations of this section shall be punished pursuant to Chapter 1,
Section
1.14 or as set forth in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
107.06   SEPARATION OF YARD WASTE REQUIRED.
All yard waste shall be separated by the owner or occupant from all other solid
waste accumulated on the premises and shall be composted on the premises or set
out for collection in accordance with this section.
   1.   Yard Waste Containers. All yard waste set out for collection by the
City shall be placed next to the curb line in containers of a type to be
approved by the Department of Public Works.
   2.   Frequency of Collection. The timetable for collection of yard waste
shall be as established by the Council.
   3.   Location of Containers. Yard waste containers set out for collection
must be placed three to six feet from garbage or other solid waste and shall
not be so placed more than 12 hours in advance of the regularly scheduled
collection day. There is no limit as to the number of containers for yard waste
which may be set out for collection.
Any resident of the City will be allowed to deliver yard waste to the compost
site established by the City at such times as established by the Council.
107.07   LITTERING PROHIBITED.
No person shall discard any litter onto or in any water or land, except that
nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authorized collection
and discarding of such litter in or on areas or receptacles provided for such
purpose. When litter is discarded from a motor vehicle, the driver of the motor
vehicle shall be responsible for the act in any case where doubt exists as to
which occupant of the motor vehicle actually discarded the litter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.363)
107.08   TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS WASTE.
No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for
collection any toxic or hazardous waste. Such materials shall be transported
and disposed of as prescribed by the Director of the State Department of
Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 100.2)
(567 IAC 102.13[2] and 400 IAC 27.14[2])
107.09   WASTE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing, or renting any premises,
dwelling unit or any place where refuse accumulates shall provide and at all
times maintain in good order and repair portable containers for refuse in
accordance with the following:
   1.   Container Specifications. Waste storage containers shall comply with
the following specifications:
      A.   Residential. Residential waste shall be collected under a volume-
based program. All residential refuse and garbage to be gathered by the
collector contracted by the City shall be stored for collection in containers
approved by the Council. Residential garbage containers shall be provided by
the collector and issued through the City offices.
         (1)   The garbage container is the property of the collector and is
assigned to the address not the person or persons living at the address. The
container shall stay with the residence and not be transferred to any other
residence by the occupant.
         (2)   Any damage done to the garbage container (other than by an act
of nature or something outside the occupant or occupants control) while
assigned to the household will be the responsibility of the resident and any
repairs and or replacements will be charged to the property owner. If the
garbage container gets damaged due to normal wear and tear the collector will
replace it at no charge.
         (3)   All garbage must fit inside the garbage container and the lid
must be closed. Otherwise, garbage may not be picked up. Extra bags can be
purchased from the City for those times when there is more garbage than can be
put into the garbage container.
         (4)   No yard waste or hazardous waste shall be placed in this
container. The garbage container is only for normal garbage usage. Recycling is
encouraged to reduce volume.
      B.   Commercial. All commercial refuse and garbage shall be stored for
collection in reusable, portable or bulk storage containers approved by the
City. The container shall be leak proof and waterproof with a lid.
   2.   Storage of Containers. Residential solid waste containers shall be
stored upon the residential premises. Commercial solid waste containers shall
be stored upon private property, unless the owner has been granted written
permission from the City to use public property for such purposes. The storage
site shall be well drained and fully accessible to collection equipment, public
health personnel, and fire inspection personnel. All owners of residential and
commercial premises shall be responsible for proper storage of all garbage and
yard waste to prevent materials from being blown or scattered around
neighboring yards and streets.
   3.   Location of Containers for Collection. Containers for the storage of
solid waste awaiting collection shall be placed outdoors at some easily
accessible place by the owner or occupant of the premises served.
   4.   Nonconforming Containers. Solid waste placed in containers which are
not in compliance with the provisions of this section will not be collected.
107.10   PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
It is unlawful for any person to:
   1.   Unlawful Use of Containers. Deposit refuse in any solid waste
containers not owned by such person without the written consent of the owner of
such containers.
   2.   Interfere with Collectors. Interfere in any manner with solid waste
collection equipment or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance
of their duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors be those of the
City, or those of any other authorized waste collection service.
   3.   Incinerators. Burn rubbish or garbage except in incinerators designed
for high temperature operation, in which solid, semisolid, liquid, or gaseous
combustible refuse is ignited and burned efficiently, and from which the solid
residues contain little or no combustible material, as acceptable to the
Environmental Protection Commission.
   4.   Scavenging. Take or collect any solid waste that has been placed out
for collection on any premises, unless such person is an authorized solid waste
collector.
107.11   SANITARY DISPOSAL PROJECT DESIGNATED.
The sanitary landfill facilities operated by Winneshiek County Area Solid Waste
Agency are hereby designated as the official “Public Sanitary Disposal Project”
for the disposal of solid waste produced or originating within the City.
107.12   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
Any person, persons, firm, partnerships, or corporations, whether acting alone
or in concert with any other, who violates this chapter shall be guilty of a
municipal infraction, and shall be penalized as set forth in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 108
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
 
108.01 Collection Service      108.07 Contract Requirements
108.02 Collection Vehicles     108.08 Collection Fees
108.03 Loading                 108.09 Lien for Nonpayment
108.04 Frequency of Collection 108.10 Irregular Use of Service
108.05 Bulky Waste             108.11 Inactive Accounts
108.06 Right of Entry
 
108.01   COLLECTION SERVICE.
The City shall provide by contract for the collection of solid waste, except
bulky waste as provided in Section 108.05, from residential premises only. The
owners or operators of commercial, industrial, or institutional premises shall
provide for the collection of solid waste produced upon such premises. Mobile
home parks are considered as commercial premises for the purpose of solid waste
collection.
108.02   COLLECTION VEHICLES.
Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of garbage
and similar putrescible waste or solid waste containing such materials shall be
leak-proof, durable and of easily cleanable construction. They shall be cleaned
to prevent nuisances, pollution, or insect breeding and shall be maintained in
good repair.
(567 IAC 104.9)
108.03   LOADING.
Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of any solid
waste shall be loaded and moved in such a manner that the contents will not
fall, leak, or spill therefrom, and shall be covered to prevent blowing or loss
of material. Where spillage does occur, the material shall be picked up
immediately by the collector or transporter and returned to the vehicle or
container and the area properly cleaned.
108.04   FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
All solid waste shall be collected from residential premises at least once each
week and from commercial, industrial, and institutional premises as frequently
as may be necessary, but not less than once each week.
108.05   BULKY WASTE.
The owner of the premises served shall contact the City to purchase a bulk item
tag for collection of any object too large or too heavy to be picked up on the
normal collection route. The cost of said bulk item tag shall be $30.00. The
property owner shall be responsible for contacting the collector to coordinate
collection of the bulky waste.
108.06   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
Solid waste collectors are hereby authorized to enter upon private property for
the purpose of collecting solid waste, as required by this chapter; however,
solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling units or other residential
buildings.
108.07   CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.
No person shall engage in the business of collecting, transporting, processing
or disposing of solid waste from residential premises for the City without
first entering into a contract with the City. This section does not prohibit an
owner from transporting solid waste accumulating upon premises owned, occupied
or used by such owner, provided such refuse is disposed of properly in an
approved sanitary disposal project. Furthermore, a contract is not required for
the removal, hauling, or disposal of earth and rock material from grading or
excavation activities, provided that all such materials are conveyed in tight
vehicles, trucks or receptacles so constructed and maintained that none of the
material being transported is spilled upon any public right-of-way.
108.08   COLLECTION FEES.
The collection and disposal of solid waste as provided by this chapter are
declared to be beneficial to the property served or eligible to be served and
there shall be levied and collected fees for the same, in accordance with the
following:
(Goreham vs. Des Moines, 1970, 179 NW 2nd, 449 [Iowa 1970])
   1.   Fees. The fees for combined solid waste, recycling of solid waste and
yard waste collection and disposal service, used or available, for each
residential premises and for each dwelling unit of a two-unit multi-family
dwelling shall be as follows:
 
Date    Charge per Dwelling Unit per Month – 96 Gallon Charge per Dwelling Unit per Month – 64 Gallon
        Container                                        Container
7/1/
2023
through $30.00                                           $25.00
6/30/
2024
In addition to the above garbage collection fees, the Council may by resolution
adopt a garbage collection fuel surcharge which shall be added to the monthly
bill and collected in the same manner as the garbage collection fee.
   2.   Solid Waste Over Maximum. Refuse and garbage that cannot be fully
contained in the garbage container may be disposed of in one of the following
ways:
      A.   Extra trash bags are available for purchase for $4.00 each through
the City. Any extra tag bags will be collected along with the regular garbage
collection. Any extra bags that are not tagged with a City issued tag will not
be collected.
      B.   A second garbage or recycling container can be requested for a
minimum of one month’s use. Each additional container will be charged at the
applicable rate established above. There shall be no prorated fees for a
partial month’s usage and the person requesting the extra container is
responsible for notifying the City when they desire to terminate the extra
container usage.
   3.   Payment of Bills. All fees are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section
92.04 of this Code of Ordinances. Solid waste collection service may be
discontinued in accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
108.09   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.07 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served, and any
lessee or tenant thereof are jointly and severally liable for fees for solid
waste collection and disposal. Fees remaining unpaid and delinquent shall
constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and shall be certified
by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as
property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
108.10   IRREGULAR USE OF SERVICE.
No reduction or suspension of any of the solid waste collection charges shall
be granted to any patron because of irregular use occasioned by vacations or
extended absences from the City.
108.11   INACTIVE ACCOUNTS.
The fees set forth in Section
108.08 of this chapter shall be charged in all circumstances, except that if
the household has arranged for the shut off of water service from the City and
the water service has, in fact, been shut off, then no solid waste fee shall be
charged.
CHAPTER 110
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
 
110.01 Franchise Granted               110.06 Relocation of Company Facilities
110.02 Term                            110.07 Confidential Information
110.03 Governing Rules and Regulations 110.08 Force Majeure
110.04 Construction and Maintenance of 110.09 Hold Harmless
Company Facilities
110.05 Extension of Company Facilities 110.10 Non-Waiver
                                       110.11 Repeal Conflicting Ordinances
 
110.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.  
The City hereby grants a nonexclusive franchise to Aquila, Inc, d/b/a Aquila
Networks, a Delaware corporation, (hereinafter called “Grantee”), its lessees,
successors, and assigns. Grantee is hereby granted the right, privilege,
franchise, permission and authority to lay, construct, install, maintain,
operate and extend in, along, over or across the present and future streets,
alleys, avenues, bridges, public rights-of-way and public places as are
now within the present or future limits of the City, a natural gas distribution
system and all facilities necessary for the purpose of supplying natural gas or
processed gas for all purposes to the inhabitants of the City and consumers in
the vicinity thereof, and for the distribution of natural gas from or through
the City to points beyond the limits thereof. Such facilities shall include,
but not be limited to, all mains, services, pipes, conduits, and appliances
necessary or convenient for transmitting, transporting, distributing and
supplying natural gas for all purposes for which it may be used, and to do all
other things necessary and proper in providing natural gas service to the
inhabitants of the City and in carrying on such business.
110.02   TERM.
The rights and privileges granted by this chapter shall remain in effect for a
period of 25 years from the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter.† 6
 
Notes
6 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 599-04, adopting a natural gas franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on September 13, 2004.
110.03   GOVER\NING RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   1.   This franchise is granted subject to all conditions, limitations and
immunities now provided for, or as hereafter amended, and applicable to the
operations of a public utility, by State or federal law. The rates to be
charged by Grantee for service within the present or future corporate limits of
the City and the rules and regulations regarding the character, quality and
standards of service to be furnished by Grantee shall be under the jurisdiction
and control of such regulatory body or bodies as may, from time to time, be
vested by law with authority and jurisdiction over the rates, regulations and
quality and standards of service to be supplied by Grantee. Provided however,
should any judicial, regulatory, or legislative body, having proper
jurisdiction, take any action that precludes Grantee from recovering from its
customers any cost associated with services provided hereunder, then Grantee
and the City shall renegotiate the terms of this franchise in accordance with
the action taken, so as to allow Grantee to be made whole economically. In
determining the rights and duties of the Grantee, the terms of this franchise
ordinance shall take precedence over any conflicting terms or requirements
contained in any other ordinance enacted by the City.
   2.   If an energy supplier is unable to furnish an adequate supply of energy
due to an emergency, an order or decision of a public regulatory body, or other
acts beyond the control of the Grantee, then the Grantee shall have the right
and authority to adopt reasonable rules and regulations limiting, curtailing or
allocating extensions of service or supply of energy to any customers or
prospective customers, and withholding the supply of energy to new customers,
provided that such rules and regulations shall be uniform as applied to each
class of customers or prospective customers, and shall be non-discriminatory as
between communities receiving service from the Grantee.
110.04   CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF COMPANY FACILITIES.
   1.   Any pavements, sidewalks or curbing taken up and any and all
excavations made shall be done in such a manner as to cause only such
inconvenience to the inhabitants of the City and to the general public as is
reasonably necessary; and repairs and replacements shall be made promptly by
Grantee, leaving such properties in as good a condition as existed immediately
prior to excavation.
   2.   Grantee agrees that, for the term of this grant, it will maintain
facilities and equipment sufficient to meet the current and future energy
requirements of the City, its inhabitants, and industries. While maintaining
its facilities and equipment, Grantee shall obtain permits as required by
ordinance, except that in emergency situations, Grantee shall take immediate
unilateral actions as it determines are necessary to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare; in which case, Grantee shall notify the City as soon as
reasonably possible.
   3.   The City will give Grantee reasonable notice of plans for street
improvements where paving or resurfacing of a permanent nature is involved that
affect Grantee’s facilities. The notice shall contain the nature and character
of the improvements, the rights-of-way upon which the improvements are to be
made, the extent of the improvements and the time when the City will start the
work, and, if more than one right-of-way is involved, the order in which this
work is to proceed. The notice shall be given to the Grantee a sufficient
length of time, considering seasonable working conditions, in advance of the
actual commencement of the work to permit the Grantee to make any additions,
alterations, or repairs to its facilities. City agrees that it will not solicit
or otherwise hire employees, officers, or directors of Grantee without prior
notice and approval of the Grantee.
110.05   EXTENSION OF COMPANY FACILITIES.
Upon receipt and acceptance of a valid application for service, Grantee shall,
subject to its own economic feasibility criteria, make reasonable extensions of
its distribution facilities to serve customers located within the current or
future corporate limits of the City.
110.06   RELOCATION OF COMPANY FACILITIES.  
If the City elects to change the grade of or otherwise alter any street, alley,
avenue, bridge, public right-of-way or public place for a public purpose,
Grantee, upon reasonable notice from the City, shall remove and relocate its
facilities or equipment situated in the public rights-of-way, if such removal
is necessary to prevent interference and not merely for the convenience of the
City, at the cost and expense of Grantee. If the City orders or requests
Grantee to relocate its facilities or equipment for the primary benefit of a
commercial or private project, or as a result of the initial request of a
commercial or private developer or other non-public entity, and such removal is
necessary to prevent interference and not merely for the convenience of the
City or other right-of-way user, Grantee shall receive payment for the cost of
such relocation as a precondition to relocating its facilities or equipment.
The City shall consider reasonable alternatives in designing its public works
projects so as not arbitrarily to cause Grantee unreasonable additional expense
in exercising its authority under this section. The City shall also provide a
reasonable alternative location for Grantee’s facilities. The City shall give
Grantee written notice of vacating of a public right-of-way. Vacating of a
public right-of-way shall not deprive the Grantee of its right to operate and
maintain existing facilities, until the reasonable cost of relocating the same
are first paid to the Grantee. Any person or corporation desiring to move a
building or other structure along, or to make any unusual use of any street,
alley, avenue, bridge, public right-of-way, or public place which shall
interfere with the facilities or equipment of the Grantee, shall first give
notice to the City and the Grantee and pay a sum sufficient to cover the
expense and damage incident to the moving of Grantee’s facilities and
equipment.
110.07   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.  
The City acknowledges that certain information it might request pursuant to
this franchise may be of a proprietary and confidential nature. If Grantee
requests that any information provided by Grantee to the City be kept
confidential due to such proprietary or commercial value, the City and its
employees, agents, and representatives shall maintain the confidentiality of
that information, to the extent allowed by law. If the City is requested or
required by legal or administrative process to disclose any such confidential
information, the City shall promptly notify Grantee of such request or
requirement so that Grantee may seek an appropriate protective order or other
relief. The City shall use all reasonable efforts to ensure that the
confidentiality of Grantee’s confidential information is maintained.
110.08   FORCE MAJEURE.  
It shall not be a breach or default under this franchise if either party fails
to perform its obligations hereunder due to Force Majeure. Force Majeure
includes, but is not limited to, the following: (i) physical events such as
acts of God, landslides, lightning, earthquakes, fires, freezing, storms,
floods, washouts, explosions, breakage or accident or necessity of repairs to
machinery, equipment or distribution or transmission lines; (ii) acts of others
such as strikes, work-force stoppages, riots, sabotage, insurrections or wars;
(iii) governmental actions such as necessity for compliance with any court
order, law, statute, ordinance, executive order, or regulation promulgated by a
governmental authority having jurisdiction; and any other causes, whether of
the kind herein enumerated or otherwise not reasonably within the control of
the affected party to prevent or overcome. Each party shall make reasonable
efforts to avoid Force Majeure and to resolve such event as promptly as
reasonably possible once it occurs in order to resume performance; provided,
however, this provision shall not obligate a party to settle any labor strike.
110.09   HOLD HARMLESS.  
Grantee, during the term of this franchise, agrees to save harmless the City
from and against all claims, demands, losses and expenses arising directly out
of the negligence of Grantee, its employees or agents, in the constructing,
operating, and maintaining of distribution and transmission facilities or
appliances of Grantee; provided, however, that Grantee need not save harmless
the City from claims, demands, losses and expenses arising out of the
negligence of the City, its employees or agents.
110.10   NON-WAIVER.
Any waiver of any obligation or default under this franchise shall not be
construed as a waiver of any future defaults, whether of like or different
character.
110.11   REPEAL CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.  
This franchise ordinance, when accepted by Grantee, shall constitute the entire
agreement between the City and the Grantee relating to this franchise and the
same shall supersede all prior ordinances pertaining to this franchise
agreement, and any terms and conditions of such prior ordinances or parts of
ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed. Ordinance No. 386 of the
City is hereby repealed as of the effective date hereof.
CHAPTER 111
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE – ALLIANT ENERGY
 
111.01 Franchise Granted 111.05 Nonexclusive
111.02 Indemnity         111.06 Continuous Service
111.03 Meters            111.07 Term
111.04 Modern System     111.08 Entire Agreement
 
111.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
There is hereby granted to Alliant Energy in its assigned service territory,
its successors and assigns, the right and franchise to acquire, construct,
erect, maintain and operate in the City of Postville, Allamakee and Clayton
Counties, Iowa, works and plants for the manufacture and generation of
electricity and a distribution system for electric light, heat and power and
the right to erect and maintain the necessary poles, lines, wires, conduits and
other appliances for the transmission of electric current along, under and upon
the streets, avenues, alleys and public places in the said City of Postville,
Allamakee and Clayton Counties, Iowa; also the right to erect and maintain upon
the streets, avenues, alleys and public places, transmission lines through the
said City of Postville, Allamakee and Clayton Counties, Iowa, to supply
individuals, corporations, communities, and municipalities both inside and
outside of said City with electric light, heat and power for the period of 25
years; also the right of eminent domain as provided in Section 364.2 of the
Code of Iowa.† 7
 
Notes
7 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 564-01, adopting an electric franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on November 12, 2001.
111.02   INDEMNITY.  
The poles, wires and appliances shall be placed and maintained so as not to
unnecessarily interfere with the travel on said streets, alleys, and public
places in said City nor unnecessarily interfere with the proper use of the
same, including ordinary drainage, or with the sewers, underground pipe and
other property of the City, and the said Company, its successors and assigns
shall hold the City free and harmless from all damages arising from the
negligent acts or omissions of the Company in the erection or maintenance of
said system.
111.03   METERS.  
The Company, its successors, and assigns, shall furnish and install all meters
at their own expense, and shall provide the service wire to buildings as set
forth in the Company tariffs filed with the Iowa Utilities Board.
111.04   MODERN SYSTEM.  
The system authorized by this chapter shall be modern and up-to-date and shall
be of sufficient capacity to supply all reasonable demands of said City and its
inhabitants thereof and shall be kept in a modern and up-to-date condition.
111.05   NONEXCLUSIVE.  
The franchise granted by this chapter shall not be exclusive.
111.06   CONTINUOUS SERVICE.  
Service to be rendered by the Company under this chapter shall be continuous
unless prevented from doing so by fire, Acts of God, unavoidable accidents or
casualties, or reasonable interruptions necessary to properly service the
Company’s equipment, and in such event service shall be resumed as quickly as
is reasonably possible.
111.07   TERM.  
The term of the franchise granted by this chapter and the rights granted
hereunder shall continue for the period of 25 years after its acceptance by the
said Company, as herein provided.
111.08   ENTIRE AGREEMENT.
This chapter sets forth and constitutes the entire agreement between the
Company and the City with respect to the rights contained herein, and may not
be superseded, modified, or otherwise amended without the approval and
acceptance of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the
City of Postville enact any ordinance or place any limitations, either
operationally or through the assessment of fees, that create additional burdens
upon the Company, or which delay utility operations.
CHAPTER 112
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE – ALLAMAKEE-CLAYTON ELECTRIC COOPERATIVE
 
112.01 Franchise Granted    112.04 Restoration of Property
112.02 Right-Of-Way Granted 112.05 Moving of Buildings
112.03 Indemnity
112.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
There is hereby granted unto Allamakee-Clayton Electric Cooperative, Inc., an
incorporated cooperative association, organized under the laws of the State of
Iowa, its successors and assigns, (hereinafter referred to as the “Grantee”)
the right, permission, privilege and franchise, for a period of 25 years from †
8  and after the taking effect of the ordinance codified in this chapter,
subject only to the laws of the State of Iowa as now in force or as may
hereafter be in force, and to the conditions and limitations hereinafter
contained, to erect, install, construct, reconstruct, repair, own, operate,
maintain, manage and control an electric light, heat and power plant and an
electric distribution system consisting of poles, wires, conduits, pipes,
conductors, anchors, guy wires, and all appurtenances thereto, within the
limits of the City and within its assigned service territory, necessary,
convenient or proper for the production, transmission, distribution and
delivery of electricity for light, heat and power purposes to the City and its
inhabitants.
 
Notes
8 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 565-01, adopting an electric franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on November 12, 2001.
112.02   RIGHT-OF-WAY GRANTED.
The Grantee, its successors, and assigns, is hereby granted the right-of-way
in, under, over, along and across the streets, lanes, avenues, sidewalks,
alleys, bridges, and public grounds of the City and within its assigned service
territory, for the purpose of erecting, installing, constructing,
reconstructing, repairing, owning, operating, and maintaining, managing and
controlling said electric light, heat and power plant and said electric
distribution system.
112.03   INDEMNITY.
The Grantee shall hold the City free and harmless of and from any and all
liability, damages, actions and causes of action, caused by or through the
neglect or mismanagement of the Grantee in the erection, installation,
construction, reconstruction, repair, operation, maintenance, management, or
control of said electric plant and distribution system.
112.04   RESTORATION OF PROPERTY.
The Grantee shall not, during the erection, installation, construction,
reconstruction, repairing, operation and maintenance of said plant or
distribution system, unnecessarily hinder public travel on the streets, lanes,
avenues, sidewalks, alleys, bridges and public grounds of the City, and shall
leave all of said streets, lanes, avenues, sidewalks, alleys, bridges and
public grounds of the City, upon which it may enter for the purposes herein
authorized, in as good a condition as they were at the date of entry.
112.05   MOVING OF BUILDINGS.
Any person desiring to move any building or other thing in, over, along or
across any of the streets, lanes, avenues, sidewalks, alleys, bridges or public
grounds of the City, whereby the poles, wires, conduits, or other fixtures of
the Grantee, or their use, shall or may be interfered with, shall make written
application therefor to the City, specifying in such application the building
or thing to be moved, the proposed route to be followed and the date for such
moving which shall not be less than seven days from the presentation of said
application. If said application shall be granted, the City shall give the
Grantee notice thereof at least five days prior to the date of said moving and
said Grantee shall thereupon, but at the expense of said applicant, temporarily
remove such poles, wires, conduits, pipes, conductors, or other fixtures as may
be necessary to allow the passage of said building or other thing for a
reasonable length of time not exceeding four hours in any one day and between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m.; provided, however, said Grantee shall not
be required to remove any such poles, wires, conduits, pipes, conductors or
other fixtures until said applicant shall have given satisfactory assurance to
said Grantee, covering the entire cost of the removal and replacement of such
poles, wires, conduits, pipes, conductors and other fixtures and any and all
damage, liability, action or cause of action resulting therefrom.
CHAPTER 113
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE - TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
113.01 Franchise Granted                        113.11 Assignments
113.02 Placement of Facilities; Indemnification 113.12 Confidential Information
113.03 Excavations                              113.13 Severability
113.04 Relocation For City Project              113.14 Notices
113.05 Relocation For Private Project           113.15 Effective and Binding
113.06 Vacation of Public Right-Of-Way          113.16 Complete Agreement
113.07 Vegetation Management                    113.17 Publication Expenses
113.08 Public Places                            113.18 Renewal
113.09 Non-Exclusivity                          113.19 Entire Agreement
113.10 Relation to Other Ordinances
 
113.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
There is hereby granted to SOO GREEN HVDC LINK PROJECTCO, LLC, hereinafter
referred to as “SOO Green” or the “Company,” its successors and assigns, the
right and franchise to construct, reconstruct, repair, replace, maintain, and
operate in the City of Postville, Iowa (“City”), the necessary conduits, and
other appliances or equipment for the transmission of electric current and
communication facilities (collectively, the “Facilities”) and the right to
construct, reconstruct, relocate, repair, replace, maintain, and operate the
Facilities under the streets, avenues, alleys, and public places and in a
certain railroad right-of-way in the City of Postville, Allamakee County, Iowa.
This franchise shall be effective for a 25-year period from and after the
effective date defined in Section 113.15 herein (“Effective Date”). SOO Green
is also granted the right of eminent domain as provided in Section 364.2(4) of
the Code of Iowa as reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes of this
franchise. (“Franchise” or “Ordinance”).† 9
 
Notes
9 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 679-22, adopting an electric franchise –
  transmission system for the City, was passed and adopted on March 14, 2002.
113.02   PLACEMENT OF FACILITIES; INDEMNIFICATION.
The Facilities shall be placed and maintained so as not to unnecessarily
interfere with travel on the streets, alleys, and public places in the City or
unnecessarily interfere with the proper use of the same, including ordinary
drainage, or with the sewers, underground pipe, and other property of the City,
and the Company shall hold the City free and harmless from all damages arising
from the negligent acts or omissions of the Company in the installation or
maintenance of the Facilities.
113.03   EXCAVATIONS.
In making any excavations in any street, alley, or public place, the Company
shall comply with section 135.09 of this Code of Ordinances, except that SOO
Green will not be required to submit an application. SOO Green shall protect
the site while work is in progress, shall not unnecessarily obstruct the use of
streets, and shall back-fill all openings in such manner as to prevent settling
or depressions in surface, pavement, or sidewalk of such excavations with same
materials, restoring the condition as nearly as practical.
113.04   RELOCATION FOR CITY PROJECT.
The Company shall, at its cost and expense, locate and relocate its Facilities
in, on, over or under any public street or alley or other public place in the
City in such a maimer as the City may at any time reasonably require for the
purposes of facilitating the construction, reconstruction, maintenance or
repair of the street or alley or any public improvement of, in or about any
such street or alley or reasonably promoting the efficient operation of any
such improvement (“City Project”) The Company shall not be required to
relocate, at its cost and expense, Company Facilities in the public right-of-
way that have been relocated at Company expense at the direction of the City in
the previous three years. The City and the Company desire to minimize, to the
fullest extent possible, the risk that any of the Facilities would require
relocation for the purposes of a future City project. The City has reviewed the
engineering plans for the Facilities and used its best available information to
identify any areas where a City project may occur during the term of this
franchise and could potentially result in a Facilities relocation. The City and
the Company will work together to revise the location of the Facilities prior
to construction to reduce the risk of any conflict. For future City projects,
the following will apply:
   1.   In developing a City project, the City shall consider reasonable
alternatives so as not arbitrarily to cause the Company unreasonable additional
expense.
   2.   If there is a potential conflict between a City project and the
Facilities, the City and the Company will work together to identify
alternatives that would avoid relocation of Facilities. When such alternative
is available, SOO Green will have the option to pay the incremental cost, if
any, associated with the alternative to avoid relocation and the City will
implement that alternative if SOO Green so elects.
   3.   If a relocation of Facilities cannot be avoided, the City will provide
a reasonable alternative location for the Company’s facilities within City
right-of-way. The Company shall be solely responsible for any additional cost
to the City as determined by the City Engineer in the City Engineer’s sole
discretion for providing such alternative location. If the alternative location
the City can provide within the City right-of-way is not acceptable to the
Company, the Company is granted the power of eminent domain to acquire the land
rights necessary to relocate the Facilities to a suitable location. The Company
will not be required to deactivate and relocate existing Facilities until the
relocated Facilities are operational.
113.05   RELOCATION FOR PRIVATE PROJECT.
If the City orders or requests the Company to relocate its Facilities for the
primary benefit of a commercial or private project, or as the result of the
initial request of a commercial or private developer or other non-public
entity, the City shall require advance payment to the Company for all
construction and transactions costs and the provision of an alternative
location for the Facilities of such relocation from such developer or other
non-public entity as a precondition to relocating the Facilities. If such pre-
payment is made, the Company will not be required to deactivate and relocate
existing Facilities until the relocated Facilities are operational.
113.06   VACATION OF PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
The City shall give the Company reasonable advance written notice to vacate a
public right-of-way. Vacating a public right-of-way shall not deprive the
Company of its right to operate and maintain existing Facilities within the
vacated right-of-way and the City shall grant the Company a utility easement in
the vacated public right-of-way until the City orders or requests the Company
to relocate its Facilities. If such relocation is for the primary benefit of a
commercial or private project, or as the result of the initial request of a
commercial or private developer or other non­public entity Section 113.05 of
this Franchise shall control. If the relocation is for a public project,
Section
113.04 shall control.
113.07   VEGETATION MANAGEMENT.
The Company is authorized and empowered to prune or remove at Company expense
any trees, shrubs, or vegetation extending over or into any street, alley,
right-of-way, or public grounds to construct and operate the transmission line
and to maintain electric reliability, safety, or restore utility service. Any
such pruning or removal shall be done in accordance with accepted safety and
utility industry standards and federal and State laws, rules, and regulations.
113.08   PUBLIC PLACES.
“Public places” means any property owned by the City.
113.09   NON-EXCLUSIVITY.
The franchise granted by this chapter shall not be exclusive.
113.10   RELATION TO OTHER ORDINANCES.
If there is any direct conflict between this ordinance and any other
ordinances, this ordinance controls.
113.11   ASSIGNMENTS.
No sale, assignment or lease of this franchise shall be effective until it is
approved by the Council and after the Company has filed in the office of the
Clerk written notice of the proposed sale, transfer, disposition or assignment,
such notice to clearly summarize the proposed procedure and the terms and
conditions thereof. Such approval by the Council shall not be unreasonably
withheld. The proposed vendor, assignee or lessee shall similarly file an
instrument, duly executed, reciting such proposal, accepting the terms of this
franchise, and agreeing to perform all the conditions thereof. This provision
shall not apply, however, to collateral assignments in connection with a
project financing of the project.
113.12   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
Upon reasonable request, the Company shall provide the City, on a project-
specific basis, with information indicating the horizontal location relative to
boundaries of the right-of-way of all equipment which the Company owns or over
which it has control located within City right-of-way. The Company and City
recognize the information provided may, under current Iowa law, constitute
public records, but that nonetheless, some information provided may be
confidential under State or federal law, or both, therefore, the City shall not
release any information with respect to the location or type of equipment which
the Company owns or controls in City right-of-way that the Company certifies
may constitute a trade secret or which may otherwise be protected from public
disclosure by State or federal law. The City further agrees that no documents,
maps, or information provided to the City by the Company shall be made
available to the public or other entities if such documents or information are
exempt from disclosure under applicable State or federal law. Any documents,
maps, or other information submitted to the City which the Company regards as
exempt or protected from public disclosure shall be clearly marked as
“Confidential” by the Company. Upon request of the City, the Company shall
provide citation to legal authority supporting its designation. The City shall
inform the Company of any request for disclosure of such confidential
documents, and upon notification from the City of any request or legal action
regarding such confidential information.
113.13   SEVERABILITY.
If any of the provisions of this franchise are for any reason declared to be
illegal or void, the lawful provisions of this franchise, which are severable
from said unlawful provisions, shall be and remain in full force and effect,
the same as if the franchise contained no illegal or void provisions.
113.14   NOTICES.
Any written notice required by this franchise shall be sent by first class mail
to the persons and addresses below:
For SOO GREEN
Raj Rajan
Vice President - Project Development
Direct Connect Development Company
1600 Utica Ave S, 9th Floor
St. Louis Park MN 55416
 
City Clerk’s Office
147N. Lawler Street
PO Box 242
Postville, IA 52162
113.15   EFFECTIVE AND BINDING.
The City shall provide the Company with an original signed and sealed copy of
this ordinance within 10 days of its final passage. The effective date of this
ordinance shall be the earlier of (a) the date the Company provides written
notice to the City Administrator that any mobilization, staging, or
construction of the Facilities will commence within the City limits or (b)
December 31, 2026. The Company shall file its written acceptance of this
ordinance with the Council by email within 60 days after it is approval by the
Council.
113.16   COMPLETE AGREEMENT.
This franchise ordinance sets forth and constitutes the entire agreement
between the Company and the City with respect to the rights contained herein,
and may not be superseded, modified, or otherwise amended without the approval
and acceptance of the Company.
113.17   PUBLICATION EXPENSES.
The expense of the publication of this ordinance shall be paid by the Company.
113.18   RENEWAL.
The City and the Company will meet at least 12 months prior to the expiration
of this franchise to discuss renewal of the franchise.
113.19   ENTIRE AGREEMENT.
This chapter sets forth and constitutes the entire agreement between the
Company and the City with respect to the rights contained herein, and may not
be superseded, modified, or otherwise amended without the approval and
acceptance of the Company. In no event shall the City enact any ordinance or
place any limitations, either operationally or through the assessment of fees,
that create additional burdens upon the Company, or that delay utility
operations.
CHAPTER 115
CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
 
115.01 Permit Granted                 115.06 Compliance with Applicable Laws
115.02 Definitions                    115.07 Revocation of Permit
115.03 Conditions and Restrictions on 115.08 Absence of Guaranty
Operation
115.04 Transfer of Permit             115.09 Public Service Features and
                                      Announcements
115.05 Liability of Operator          115.10 Franchise Fee
 
115.01   PERMIT GRANTED.
The City Council hereby grants a nonexclusive permit to CenturyTel TeleVideo,
Inc., (“Operator”) for a period of 15 years, with option to renew for an
additional 10 years, upon approval of the Council.† 10  The franchise shall
consist of the right to install, maintain, and operate within the streets or
highways of the City any equipment facilities for or in connection with the
operation and distribution of television signals, radio signals and any future
communication or data transmission services either one-way or two-way over a
Broadband Communication Network. No cable or other equipment or device
installed in, over or under the streets or highways in the City under a permit
herein granted shall be used for any other purpose except for a Broadband
Communication Network as herein defined.
 
Notes
10 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 465-94, adopting a cable television franchise for
   the City, was passed and adopted on July 10, 2006.
115.02   DEFINITIONS.
   1.   “Basic CATV Service” means any CATV service offering which includes, at
a minimum, the retransmission of local television broadcast signals, local
access programming, and any other programming Operator decides to include in
the Basic CATV service offering pursuant to this chapter.
   2.   “Broadband Communication Network” means an arrangement or combination
of apparatus whereby television or radio signals or other intelligences, either
analog or digital, are broadcast over the air and are received at one or more
towers, antennas or other devices from stations licensed by the Federal
Communications Commission (“FCC”), and which for a consideration are
transmitted by means of a coaxial cable or other suitable device to receiving
sets or apparatus of subscribers of such service. A Broadband Communication
Network may also offer other one-way or two-way communication services, data
transmission or cable modem services.
   3.   “Cable Modem Service” means access to the Internet via the Broadband
Communication Network.
   4.   “Expanded CATV Service” means CATV offerings in addition to the
programming offered in the Basic CATV service offering including, but not
limited to premium channels offering movies, pay-per-view programming, and
video on demand programming.
   5.   “Gross Annual Subscriber Receipts” means any and all compensation
received directly by the Operator from the City subscribers for Basic CATV
service and Expanded CATV service. Gross Annual Subscriber Receipts do not
include receipts from any cable modem service, data transmission or other
communications service, taxes on services furnished by the operator imposed
directly on any subscriber or user by any City, State, or other governmental
unit and collected by the Operator for such a governmental unit.
   6.   “Operator” means CenturyTel TeleVideo, Inc., a Wisconsin Corporation,
or any subsidiary of said company, its successors and assigns and anyone who
succeeds CenturyTel, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
franchise shall not be assigned or transferred without the prior written
consent of the City.
   7.   “Streets” means and includes all public streets, alleys, boulevards,
highways, parkways, public grounds, and easements owned or maintained by the
City.
115.03   CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATION.
The Operator, now granted a permit under this chapter, shall be subject to the
following restrictions and conditions with regard to the operation of such
systems, which conditions and restrictions shall be in addition to any other
contained or referred to in this chapter. Cables, wires, and other overhead
equipment in connection with such system may be installed, operated, and
maintained either over or under the streets or highways of said City upon such
poles and equipment as is there existing and pursuant to such arrangements and
agreements as may be made with the owners thereof. Construction and
installation of any additional poles or other equipment for the support of
cables, wires and other overhead and underground equipment in the streets or
highways in connection with said systems shall be submitted to the City for
approval. The City shall issue a permit to the Operator provided such
construction and installation will conform to the applicable City or State
code.
115.04   TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
The Operator may not transfer or assign any rights granted under this chapter
without the approval of the Council. Transfer from a subsidiary to a parent
corporation or vice versa shall not be considered a transfer under this
section.
115.05   LIABILITY OF OPERATOR.
The Operator shall indemnify and save the City, its agents, and employees
harmless from any and all claims for personal injuries or property damage and
any other claims, costs, including attorney’s fees, expense of investigation
and litigation of claims and actions which may arise from the installation or
operation of said system, except those claims, costs, damages, and injuries
arising from the negligence of the City. For this purpose, the Operator shall
early and at all times maintain insurance on file with the Clerk insuring such
Operator and City against any and all liability arising from the installation,
maintenance and operation of the Broadband Communication Network.
115.06   COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS.
The Operator shall at all times during the life of the permit be subject to all
lawful exercises of the police power of the City and to such reasonable
regulations as the City may hereafter by resolution or ordinance provide, In
addition, the Operator and its system shall be subject to the laws of the
State.
115.07   REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   1.   Upon the failure of the Operator to observe any of the terms and
provisions of this chapter, the City may serve notice upon the Operator
requiring it to perform or to act as required by this chapter. If the Operator
shall fail at the end of a 60-day period to perform or act as required by this
chapter, the City may terminate said license and all rights thereunder after
notice and hearing. Notice of hearing shall be given by registered mail to the
post office address of the Operator deposited in the U.S. mails not less than
20 days prior to such hearings. Revocation or suspension of the bond or
insurance referred to in Section 115.05 hereof shall be grounds for immediate
termination of said license, without notice or hearing.
   2.   Except as provided above, such cables, wires, and other overhead
equipment shall conform to the Electrical Code of the State.
   3.   The system shall transmit signals from not less than 12 television
stations or networks.
   4.   The Operator shall maintain and operate the system in accordance with
the rules and regulations of the FCC, the State and such regulations as the
City promulgate.
   5.   In case it becomes necessary for the Operator to open or otherwise
disturb any streets or highways, the Operator shall first secure a permit from
the appropriate regulatory authority.
   6.   In the event at any time during the period the Broadband Communication
Network is licensed under the provision of this ordinance, the City shall
lawfully elect to alter or change any street, alley, or any other public way,
the Operator, upon reasonable notice by the City, shall remove, relay, and
relocate its facilities at its own expense.
   7.   The Operator shall upon request of any person holding a building moving
permit issued by the City, temporarily raise, or lower its facilities or
disconnect or take them down to permit the moving of the buildings. The expense
of such removal, raising or lowering of wires shall be paid for by the person
requesting the same, and the Operator shall be given not less than 48 hours’
advance notice to arrange for such temporary line changes.
   8.   All installations by the Operator, of cables and other facilities and
equipment, shall comply in all respects with all laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations of the State, or any agent or department thereof now or hereafter
in effect.
   9.   The Operator shall provide and maintain its equipment in such condition
and of such quality so that none of its services will adversely affect radio or
television reception.
   10.   Installation and maintenance of equipment shall be such that standard
color signals shall be transmitted with reasonable fidelity to any subscriber
receiver.
   11.   The Operator may not engage in the servicing or repair of television
receivers in the City or directly or indirectly require of any subscriber
patronage of any designated person or company engaged in such service or repair
business. The foregoing shall not apply to the repair or adjustment of
equipment other than receivers, which is a part of the system of the Operator.
   12.   The Operator shall submit to inspections by duly authorized personnel
of the City and shall make available to such inspectors or duly authorized
personnel its facilities and equipment. The City reserves the rights of
reasonable regulation of the installation and maintenance of the facilities of
the Operator.
115.08   ABSENCE OF GUARANTY.
The granting of the franchise shall not be construed as any undertaking or
guaranty of the efficiency of the Operator or maintenance of the service of the
Operator. The City assumes no responsibility for the acts or commissions of the
Operator other than to require compliance with this chapter.
115.09   PUBLIC SERVICE FEATURES AND ANNOUNCEMENTS.
This chapter shall give the Operator the right to originate local public
service features and announcements, in conformity with State and federal law.
115.10   FRANCHISE FEE.
The Operator, on or before the end of the Operator’s fiscal year for each year,
shall pay, as an annual franchise fee to the City, a sum equal to one percent
of the gross annual subscriber receipts from Basic CATV services provided in
the City for the preceding calendar year. Revenues received from cable modem
service, data transmission or other communications services offered via the
Broadband Communication Network are excluded from gross annual subscriber
receipts for purposes of calculating the franchise fee. No other fee, charge,
or consideration shall be imposed. The Operator, at least once annually at the
request of the City Council, shall furnish the City with a full accounting and
report showing its revenues derived from services within the City, and the
manner of computation of its annual franchise fee to the City.
CHAPTER 116
CABLE TELEVISION REGULATIONS
116.01 Definitions                     116.22 Performance Standards
116.02 Application for Franchise       116.23 Channel Capacity and Performance
                                       116.24 Installation and Maintenance of
116.03 Use of Property                 Subscriber Terminals in City Buildings
                                       and Schools
116.04 Taxes
116.05 Insurance                       116.25 Telecast of Educational
                                       Activities
116.06 Repairs                         116.26 Program Alteration
116.07 Hold Harmless                   116.27 Complaint Procedure
116.08 Assignment                      116.28 Service Rules and Regulations
116.09 Insolvency of Grantee           116.29 Subscriber Rates and Charges
116.10 Default of Grantee              116.30 Payments to City
116.11 Termination                     116.31 Injury to Property of Grantee
116.12 Compliance with Applicable Laws 116.32 Intercepting Signals of Grantee
116.13 Installation and Maintenance of 116.33 Filing of Reports
Property of Grantee
116.14 Interference                    116.34 Filing of Maps and Plats
116.15 Installation of Cables          116.35 Filing of Communications with
                                       Regulatory Agencies
116.16 Restoration of Ground Surface   116.36 Access
116.17 Alteration of Grade             116.37 Discrimination Prohibited
116.18 Temporary Removal of Cables     116.38 Other Business Activities
                                       Prohibited
116.19 Tree Trimming                   116.39 City Preemption Rights
116.20 Line Extensions                 116.40 Noninterference
116.21 Service Requirements            116.41 Protection of Work
                                       116.42 Revocation of Franchise
 
116.01   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Cable television system” means any facility that, in whole or in part,
receives directly, or indirectly over the air, and amplifies or otherwise
modifies the signals transmitting programs broadcast by one or more television
or radio stations and distributes such signals, by wire or cable, to
subscribing members of the public who pay for such services.
   2.   “Channel” means the segment of the electromagnetic spectrum to which a
source of television transmission is assigned.
   3.   “FCC” means the Federal Communications Commission.
   4.   “Franchise” means the rights, privileges, and authority granted by the
City to the Grantee hereunder and includes all of the terms and conditions of
this chapter.
   5.   “Grantee” means the person granted a franchise in the City. When the
context so requires, the term “Grantee” means and includes the Grantee, its
officers, agents, employees, servants, and independent contractors.
   6.   “Private property” means all property, real, personal, or mixed, owned
by a private person, including property owned by a public utility not owned or
operated by the City.
   7.   “Property of the Grantee” means all property, real, personal, or mixed,
owned or used by the Grantee however arising from or related to or connected
with the franchise.
   8.   “Public property” means all property, real or personal or mixed, owned
or used by the City, including property owned or used by a public utility owned
or operated by the City.
116.02   APPLICATION FOR FRANCHISE.
No franchise may be granted unless the applicant has successfully completed the
application procedure in accordance with filing instructions promulgated by the
City. All applicants must submit a request for franchise which shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   1.   Name and Address of Applicant. The name and business address of
applicant or appropriate corporate officers.
   2.   Description of Proposed Operation. A general description of the
applicant’s proposed operation, including but not limited to: business hours;
operating staff; maintenance procedures beyond those required in this chapter;
management and marketing staff complement and procedures; and, if available,
the rules of operation for public access.
   3.   Signal Carriage. A statement of the television and radio services to be
provided, including both off-the-air and locally originated signals.
   4.   Special Services. A statement setting forth a description of the
automated services proposed as well as a description of the production
facilities to be made available by the Grantee for the public channels required
to be made available by the provisions of this chapter.
   5.   Schedule of Charges. A statement of the applicant’s proposed schedule
of charges.
   6.   Corporate Organization. A statement detailing the corporate
organization of the applicant, if any, including the names and addresses of its
officers and directors and the number of shares held by each officer and
director.
116.03   USE OF PROPERTY.
The Grantee may use public property within the City and, with the written
consent of the owner thereof, private property within the City, in furtherance
of such activities within the City as may now or hereafter be consistent with
generally accepted principles applicable to the operation of a cable television
system subject, however, to the following restrictions:
   1.   Laws and Regulations. The Grantee shall comply with all governmental
laws, ordinances, rules, or regulations as may now or hereafter be applicable
thereto.
   2.   Restrictions. The Grantee shall not use or occupy or permit public
property or private property to be used or occupied or do or permit anything to
be done on or about public property or private property which will, in any
manner:
      A.   Impair the owner’s interest in or title thereto;
      B.   Impair any mortgage or lease as may now or hereinafter be applicable
thereto;
      C.   Adversely affect the then value or character thereof;
      D.   Cause or be likely to cause structural damage thereto, or any part
thereof;
      E.   Cause or be likely to cause any damage or injury to any utility
service available thereto;
      F.   Create a public or private nuisance, cause any offensive or
obnoxious vibrations, noise, odor or undesirable effect or interfere with the
safety, comfort or convenience of the owner thereof, and persons lawfully on or
about the same;
      G.   Violate the rules, regulations and requirements of any person
furnishing utilities or services thereto; or
      H.   Make void or voidable any insurance then in force affecting the same
or cause an increase in the rates applicable thereto.
116.04   TAXES.  
The Grantee shall pay all real estate taxes, special assessments, personal
property taxes, license fees, permit fees and other charges of a like nature
which may be taxed, charged, assessed, levied, or imposed upon the property of
the Grantee and upon any services rendered by the Grantee.
116.05   INSURANCE.
The Grantee shall, at all times during the term of the franchise, carry and
require their contractors to carry:
   1.   General Liability. Insurance in such forms and in such companies as
shall be approved by the City to protect the City and Grantee from and against
any and all claims, injury or damage to persons or property, both real and
personal, caused by the construction, erection, operation and maintenance of
any structure, equipment or appliance. The amount of such insurance shall be
not less than $100,000 as to any one person, $300,000 as to any one occurrence
for injury or death to persons, and $100,000 for damages to property, with so-
called umbrella coverage of at least $3,000,000.
   2.   Worker’s Compensation. Worker’s Compensation Insurance as provided by
the laws of the State of Iowa, as amended.
   3.   Automobile. Automobile insurance with limits of not less than $100,000/
$300,000 of public liability coverage and automobile property damage insurance
with a limit of not less than $100,000 covering all automotive equipment, with
so-called umbrella coverage of at least $3,000,000.
   4.   Notice of Cancellation. All of said insurance coverage shall provide a
10-day notice to the City in the event of material alteration or cancellation
of any coverage afforded in said policies prior to the date said material
alteration or cancellation shall become effective.
   5.   Copies Filed. Copies of all insurance policies required hereunder shall
be furnished to and filed with the City prior to the commencement of operations
or the expiration of prior policies, as the case may be.
   6.   Defense Costs. The Grantee shall pay all reasonable expenses incurred
by the City in defending itself with regard to all damages, penalties or other
claims resulting from the acts of the Grantee, its assigns, employees, agents,
invitees, or other persons. Said expenses shall include all out-of-pocket
expenses such as attorney’s fees and shall include the value of any service
rendered by the City Attorney or any other officers or employees of the City.
116.06   REPAIRS.  
During the term of the franchise, the Grantee shall, at its own expense, make
all necessary repairs and replacements to the property of the Grantee. Such
repairs and replacements, interior and exterior, ordinary as well as
extraordinary, and structural as well as nonstructural, shall be made promptly,
as and when needed.
116.07   HOLD HARMLESS.  
During the term of the franchise, the Grantee absolutely assumes and agrees to
pay the City for, and the Grantee forever agrees to indemnify the City against,
and agrees to hold and save the City harmless from, any and all damage, injury,
costs, expenses, liability, claims, settlements, judgments, decrees and awards
of every kind and nature whatsoever, including attorney’s fees, costs and
disbursements, that may ever be claimed against the City by any person
whatsoever, or an account of any actual or alleged loss, damage or injury to
any property or person whatsoever, however arising from or related to or
connected with, directly or indirectly, (a) injury to or death of any person,
or loss, damage or injury to any property of the Grantee, or (b) the
nonobservance by the Grantee of the provisions of any laws, statutes,
ordinances, resolutions, regulations or rules duly promulgated by any
governmental entity which may be applicable directly or indirectly, to rights,
privileges, and authority, and the obligations and liabilities, assumed by the
Grantee under the franchise, (c) the nonobservance by the Grantee of any of the
terms and conditions of the franchise, or (d) the granting of the franchise.
116.08   ASSIGNMENT.  
The Grantee shall not assign or transfer any right granted under this chapter
to any other person, company, or corporation without prior consent, provided
the Grantee shall have the right to assign the provisions of this chapter to a
corporation wholly owned by the Grantee, or to a limited partnership of which
the Grantee or other wholly owned subsidiary is a general partner, without
prior consent of the City.
116.09   INSOLVENCY OF GRANTEE.  
In the event that the Grantee shall become insolvent, or be declared a
bankrupt, or the property of the Grantee shall come into the possession of any
receiver, assignee or other officer acting under an order of court, and any
such receiver, assignee or other such officer shall not be discharged within 60
days after taking possession of such property, the City may, at its option,
terminate the franchise by giving written notice thereof to the Grantee.
116.10   DEFAULT OF GRANTEE.
In the event the Grantee shall fail to comply with any of the terms and
conditions of the franchise within 30 days after receipt of notice in writing
from the City specifying the failure or default, the City may, at its option,
terminate the franchise by giving written notice thereof to the Grantee. This
section shall not apply to failures or defaults beyond the reasonable control
of the Grantee.
116.11   TERMINATION.
Upon termination of the franchise for any cause, the Grantee shall remove the
property of the Grantee from all public property and private property within
the City and shall return such public property and private property to the
owner thereof in the same condition as when the property of the Grantee was
placed thereon, ordinary wear and tear excepted.
116.12   COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS.  
During the term of the franchise, the Grantee shall comply with all
governmental laws, ordinances, rules or regulations as may be applicable to the
construction, operation, maintenance, repair, replacement, renewal,
reconstruction, and removal of a cable television system, the sale and supply
of audio and video communications services, the use of public property and
private property and the engagement in such further activities as may now or
hereafter be consistent with generally accepted principles applicable to the
operation of a cable television system.
116.13   INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY OF THE GRANTEE.  
Grantee’s plant and equipment, including antenna site, headend, distribution
system, towers, structures, poles, wires, underground cable and appurtenances
shall be installed and maintained in accordance with good engineering practices
and shall be located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, replaced, removed,
repaired, maintained and operated so as not to endanger or interfere with the
lives of persons or to interfere with the improvements the City may deem proper
to make or to unnecessarily hinder or obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic
to public ways, places and structures. Erection, installation, construction,
replacement, removal, repair, maintenance, and operation of the system shall be
in accordance with the provisions of the National Electrical Code of the
National Fire Protection Association and National Electric Safety Code (outside
work) and such applicable laws of the State and applicable ordinances of the
City. All installations shall be of a permanent nature, durable and maintained
in a safe, suitable and substantial condition, in good order and repair.
116.14   INTERFERENCE.  
The Grantee’s cable television system shall be so designed, engineered, and
maintained so as not to interfere with the radio and television reception of
persons who are not subscribers of the Grantee.
116.15   INSTALLATION OF CABLES.  
The Grantee shall have the right, privilege, and authority to lease, rent or in
any other manner obtain the use of wooden poles with overhead lines, conduits,
trenches, ducts, lines, cables, and other equipment and facilities from any and
all holders of public licenses and franchises with the City, and to use such
poles, conduits, trenches, ducts, lines, and cables in the course of its
business. The Grantee shall install its cable on the existing poles owned by
other holders of public licenses and franchises with the City whenever possible
for the installation of its cable. When installation of cable on poles is
insufficient, or when holders of other public licenses or franchises have
installed underground cable, then in that event, the cable used by the Grantee
shall be installed underground.
116.16   RESTORATION OF GROUND SURFACE.  
In case of any disturbance of pavement, sidewalk, driveway or other surfacing,
the Grantee shall, at its own cost and expense and in a manner approved by the
City, replace and restore all paving, sidewalk, driveway, or surface of any
street or alley disturbed, in as good a condition as before said work was
commenced.
116.17   ALTERATION OF GRADE.  
In the event that during the term of the franchise, the City shall elect to
alter or change the grade of any street, alley, or public way, the Grantee,
upon reasonable notice by the City, shall remove, relay, and relocate its
poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes, and other fixtures at its
own expense.
116.18   TEMPORARY REMOVAL OF CABLES.
The Grantee shall, on the request of any person holding a building moving
permit issued by the City, temporarily raise, or lower its cables to permit the
moving of buildings. The expense of such temporary removal, raising, or
lowering of cables shall be paid by the person requesting the same and the
Grantee shall have the authority to require such payment in advance. The
Grantee shall be given not less than five days’ advance notice to arrange for
such temporary cable changes.
116.19   TREE TRIMMING.  
The Grantee shall have the authority to trim trees upon and overhanging
streets, alleys, sidewalks, and public places of the City so as to prevent the
branches of such trees from coming in contact with the cables of the Grantee.
All trimming shall be done at the expense of the Grantee.
116.20   LINE EXTENSIONS.  
It shall be the obligation of the Grantee to serve all residents of the City
unless the density of potential subscriber locations is less than an average of
30 potential locations per each linear mile of cable construction.
116.21   SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.  
The Grantee shall, during the period of its franchise, furnish reasonable,
adequate, and efficient cable television service to the residents of the City
wherever possible and the Grantee shall maintain its system in reasonable
repair and working order and provide adequate facilities for such maintenance.
These requirements shall be temporarily suspended in the event of natural
disaster or emergency conditions or other circumstances beyond the control of
the Grantee.
116.22   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.  
The Grantee shall produce a high-quality picture in black and white or in color
accompanied by proper sound on typical standard television sets in good repair.
The Grantee shall also transmit signals of adequate strength to produce good
pictures with good sound at all subscriber terminals throughout the City
without causing cross modulation in the cables or interfering with other
electrical or electronic systems. The Grantee’s cable television system shall
meet technical standards of the rules and regulations of the Federal
Communications Commission and the Grantee shall perform the periodic tests and
make the measurements specified in such rules.
116.23   CHANNEL CAPACITY AND PERFORMANCE.  
During the term of the franchise, the cable television system of the Grantee
shall conform to the channel capacity and performance requirements contained in
the then current regulations of the FCC.
116.24   INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SUBSCRIBER TERMINALS IN CITY BUILDINGS
AND SCHOOLS.  
During the franchise, the Grantee shall, at its sole cost, install and maintain
a subscriber terminal in such buildings owned or used by the City, and in such
buildings owned or used by recognized educational authorities within the City,
both public and private, as may be designated by the governing body having
jurisdiction thereof. Grantee shall furnish a terminal at its expense and any
additional terminals shall be at the expense of the City. This provision is
meant to apply only to those buildings accessible to Grantee’s system.
116.25   TELECAST OF EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES.  
The Grantee shall not cablecast, tape, reproduce or otherwise convey to its
subscribers the activities of any recognized educational authority, public or
private, without the written consent of the governing body of such authority.
116.26   PROGRAM ALTERATION.  
Any signal received by the Grantee from a television broadcast station shall be
cablecast by the Grantee in its entirety, as received, without alteration.
116.27   COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.  
The Grantee shall maintain a publicly listed telephone number which can be
called by all subscribers to the City’s system toll-free. The Grantee shall
maintain a repair and maintenance crew capable of responding to subscriber
complaints or request for services within 24 hours after receipt of the
complaint or request. No charge will be made to the subscriber for this
service. This telephone number shall be given to each subscriber in writing at
the time a service agreement is entered into and shall also be listed in the
telephone directory distributed to residents of the City. The Grantee shall
establish procedures for receiving, acting upon and resolving subscriber
complaints, which procedure shall be filed with and approved by the Council. If
the Council does not approve of said procedures, they shall be altered by the
Grantee to comply with the requests of the Council. The Grantee shall furnish
to each subscriber in writing the procedure for receiving, acting upon and
resolving subscriber complaints.
116.28   SERVICE RULES AND REGULATIONS.  
The Grantee shall have the right to prescribe reasonable service rules and
regulations for the conduct of its business with its subscribers and service
users, not inconsistent with the provisions of its franchise or with the rules
and regulations of the FCC and other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
The Grantee shall file such rules and regulations, and all amendments thereto,
with the Clerk. If the Council makes no objections to said rules and
regulations within 30 days of the filing with the Clerk, they shall be in full
force and effect until amended or altered. The Grantee shall also file with the
Clerk the form of its service agreement with subscribers and channel users.
116.29   SUBSCRIBER RATES AND CHARGES.
All rates for service shall be reasonable, compensatory, and nondiscriminatory.
Except as otherwise provided in the franchise, the Grantee shall have the
right, privilege, and authority to change the rates and charges. Further
regulations with regard to cable television rates are contained in
Chapter 117 of this Code.
116.30   PAYMENTS TO CITY.  
The Grantee shall pay to the City one percent of its annual gross “basic
service charges” from subscribers located within the City. All payments shall
be made to the City annually and shall be due 45 days after the close of the
calendar year. Grantee shall keep complete records of accounts showing dates
and payments received and shall furnish an annual accounting by a certified
public accountant to the City of the payment data as provided above. The
Council shall have the right, power, and authority to inspect the monthly
service charge records of the Grantee at the premises of the Grantee during
normal business hours or any other reasonable time and place.
116.31   INJURY TO PROPERTY OF THE GRANTEE.  
No person shall wrongfully or unlawfully injure the property of the Grantee.
116.32   INTERCEPTING SIGNALS OF THE GRANTEE.  
No person shall wrongfully or unlawfully intercept the signals of the Grantee.
116.33   FILING OF REPORTS.  
On or before April 1 of each year, the Grantee shall file with the City copies
of FCC Form 325 and FCC Form 326 for the preceding calendar year.
116.34   FILING OF MAPS AND PLATS.  
On or before April 1 of each year, the Grantee shall file with the City maps
and plats showing the location and nature of all new property of the Grantee
within the City as of the end of the preceding calendar year.
116.35   FILING OF COMMUNICATIONS WITH REGULATORY AGENCIES.  
The Grantee shall file with the City, copies of all petitions, applications and
communications submitted by the Grantee to any regulatory agency having
jurisdiction over the Grantee.
116.36   ACCESS.  
The Grantee shall and does hereby grant to the City the right to enter upon the
property of the Grantee, upon reasonable notice, at any and all reasonable
times to inspect the same for purposes pertaining to the rights of the City.
116.37   DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.  
The Grantee shall not grant any undue preference of advantage to any person,
nor subject any person to prejudice or disadvantage with respect to rates,
charges, services, service facilities, rules, regulations, or in any other
respect.
116.38   OTHER BUSINESS ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.  
During the initial term of the franchise, or any extension thereof, the Grantee
shall not engage in the business of selling, leasing, renting, or servicing
television or radio receivers, or their parts and accessories, and the Grantee
shall not require or attempt to direct its subscribers to deal with any
particular person or firm with respect to said activities.
116.39   CITY PREEMPTION RIGHTS.  
The City retains the right to utilize the existing poles for future City use
and to require removal of the cable by the Grantee where existing poles are not
sufficient to adequately handle the proposed City use and Grantee’s cable.
116.40   NONINTERFERENCE.  
All transmission and distribution structures, lines and equipment erected by
the Grantee within the City shall be so located as to cause minimum
interference with the proper use of streets, alleys and other public ways and
places and to cause minimum interference with the rights or reasonable
convenience of property owners who adjoin any of the said streets, alleys or
other public ways and places.
116.41   PROTECTION OF WORK.  
Any opening or obstruction in the streets or other public ways made by the
Grantee in the course of the construction, operation or removal of cable
installation shall be guarded and protected at all times by the placement of
adequate barriers, fences or boarding, the bounds of which during periods of
dusk and darkness shall be clearly designated by warning lights. Grantee shall,
whenever it is deemed necessary by the City, install such steel plates as may
be necessary to allow a public roadway to remain open while the Grantee is in
the course of the construction, operation or removal of cable television.
116.42   REVOCATION OF FRANCHISE.  
If the Grantee fails to comply with any of the provisions of its franchise, or
defaults in any of its obligations hereunder, except for causes beyond the
reasonable control of the Grantee, and fails within 30 days after written
notice from the City to commence, and within a reasonable time, complete the
correction of such default and noncompliance, the Council shall have the right
to revoke its franchise and all rights of the Grantee thereunder.
CHAPTER 117
REGULATION OF CABLE TELEVISION RATES
 
117.01 Administration of Rules and    117.04 Cable Programming Service Tier
Regulations
117.02 Rate Regulation Proceedings    117.05 Delegation of Powers Permitted
117.03 Certification to FCC and Cable
Operator
 
117.01   ADMINISTRATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
The City has the legal authority to administer and shall enforce against any
non-municipally owned cable television system operator, as permitted therein,
the provisions of Part 76, Subpart N of the Rules and Regulations of the
Federal Communications Commission (FCC), concerning Cable Rate Regulation, 47
C.F.R. §§76.900 et. seq., as they currently read and hereafter may be amended,
which are incorporated herein by reference.
117.02   RATE REGULATION PROCEEDINGS.
Any rate regulation proceedings conducted under Section
117.01 shall provide a reasonable opportunity for consideration of the views of
any interested party, including but not limited to, the City or its designee,
the Cable Operator, subscribers, and residents of the franchise area. In
addition to all other provisions required by the laws of the State of Iowa and
by the City, and in order to provide for such opportunity for consideration of
the views of any interested party, the City shall take the following actions:
   1.   The City shall publish notice as provided in Section 362.4 of the Code
of Iowa and shall mail, by certified mail, to the Cable Operator a notice of
the intent to conduct a public proceeding on basic service tier rates or
charges for equipment to receive such basic service tier, as defined by the
FCC.
   2.   The public notice shall state, among other things, that cable
television rates are subject to municipal review and explain the nature of the
rate review in question; that any interested party has a right to participate
in the proceeding; that public views may be submitted in the proceeding,
explaining how they are to be submitted and the deadline for submitting any
such views; that a decision concerning the reasonableness of the cable
television rates in question will be governed by the Rules and Regulations of
the FCC; and that the decision of the City is subject to review by the FCC.
   3.   The City shall conduct a public proceeding to determine whether or not
the rates or proposed rate increases are reasonable. The City may delegate by
resolution the responsibility to conduct the proceeding to any duly qualified
and eligible individual(s) or entity. If the City or its designee cannot
determine the reasonableness of a proposed rate increase within the time period
permitted by the FCC Rules and Regulations, it may announce the effective date
of the proposed rates for an additional period of time as permitted by the FCC
Rules and Regulations and issue any other necessary or appropriate order and
give public notice accordingly.
   4.   In the course of the rate regulation proceeding, the City may request
additional information from the Cable Operator that is reasonably necessary to
determine the reasonableness of the basic service tier rates and equipment
charges. Any such additional information submitted to the City shall be
verified by an appropriate official of the cable television system supervising
the preparation of the response on behalf of the entity and submitted by way of
affidavit or under penalty of perjury, stating that the response is true and
accurate to the best of that person’s knowledge, information and belief formed
after reasonable inquiry.
   5.   The City may request proprietary information, provided that the City
shall consider a timely request from the Cable Operator that said proprietary
information shall not be made available for public information, consistent with
the procedures set forth in Section 0.459 of the FCC Rules and Regulations.
Furthermore, said proprietary information may be used only for the purpose of
determining the reasonableness of the rates and charges or the appropriate rate
level based on a cost-of-service showing submitted by the Cable Operator.
   6.   The City may exercise all powers under the laws of evidence applicable
to administrative proceedings under the laws of the State and by this Code of
Ordinances to discover any information relevant to the rate regulation
proceeding, including, but not limited to, subpoena, interrogatories,
production of documents, and deposition.
   7.   Upon termination of the rate regulation proceeding, the City shall
adopt by resolution and release a written decision as to whether or not the
rates or proposed rate increase are reasonable or unreasonable, and, if
unreasonable, its remedy, including prospective rate reduction, rate
prescription, and refunds.
   8.   The City may not impose any fines, penalties, forfeitures, or other
sanctions, other than permitted by the FCC Rules and Regulations, for charging
an unreasonable rate or proposing an unreasonable rate increase.
   9.   Consistent with FCC Rules and Regulations, the City’s decision may be
reviewed only by the FCC.
   10.   The City shall be authorized, at any time, whether or not in the
course of a rate regulation proceeding, to gather information as necessary to
exercise its jurisdiction as authorized by the laws of the State, the
Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and the FCC Rules and Regulations. Any
information submitted to the City shall be verified by an appropriate official
of the cable television system supervising the preparation of the response on
behalf of the entity and submitted by way of affidavit or under penalty of
perjury, stating that the response is true and accurate to the best of that
person’s knowledge, information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry.
117.03   CERTIFICATION TO FCC AND CABLE OPERATOR.
The City shall file with the FCC the required certification form (FCC Form 328)
on September 1, 1993, or as soon thereafter as appropriate. 30 days later, or
as soon thereafter as appropriate, the City shall notify the Cable Operator
that the City has been certified by the FCC and that it has adopted all
necessary regulations so as to begin regulating basic service tier cable
television rates and equipment charges.
117.04   CABLE PROGRAMMING SERVICE TIER.
With regard to the cable programming service tier, as defined by the
Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and the FCC Rules and Regulations, and
over which the City is not empowered to exercise rate regulation, the Cable
Operator shall give notice to the City of any change in rates for the cable
programming service tier or tiers, any change in the charge for equipment
required to receive the tier or tiers, and any changes in the nature of the
services provided, including the program services included in the tier or
tiers. Said notice shall be provided within five business days after the change
becomes effective.
117.05   DELEGATION OF POWERS PERMITTED.
The City may delegate by resolution its powers to enforce this chapter to
municipal employees or officers (the “cable official”). The cable official will
have the authority to:
   1.   Administer oaths and affirmations;
   2.   Issue subpoenas;
   3.   Examine witnesses;
   4.   Rule upon questions of evidence;
   5.   Take or cause depositions to be taken;
   6.   Conduct proceedings in accordance with this chapter;
   7.   Exclude from the proceeding any person engaging in contemptuous conduct
or otherwise disrupting the proceedings;
   8.   Hold conferences for the settlement or simplification of the issues by
consent of the parties; and
   9.   Take actions and make decisions or recommend decisions in conformity
with this chapter.
CHAPTER 118
CABLE TELEVISION CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS
 
118.01 Enforcement of Customer Service 118.03 Establishment of Rules and
Standards                              Procedures
118.02 Notification of Cable Operator  118.04 Reduction of Rate
 
118.01   ENFORCEMENT OF CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS.
The City has the legal authority to adopt and enforce customer service
standards for the cable television system in the City as permitted by the Cable
Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992. Upon review of the
customer service standards adopted by the Federal Communications Commission
(FCC) on March 11, 1993, by MM Docket No. 92.263 of the FCC, and deeming it in
the best interests of the City, the Council hereby adopts by reference the
above-mentioned customer service standards for cable television service,
effective July 1, 1994.
118.02   NOTIFICATION OF CABLE OPERATOR.
The Clerk notified the Cable Operator by registered mail with return receipt
that the City adopted said customer service standards for cable television
service, effective on said date.
118.03   ESTABLISHMENT OF RULES AND PROCEDURES.
The Council (or Cable Commission if appointed) shall establish rules and
procedures regarding the process to remedy possible violations of the customer
service standards by the Cable Operator. The Council or Commission shall
provide for notice and opportunity for hearing for both the customers and the
Cable Operator in such process.
118.04   REDUCTION OF RATE.
If after notice and opportunity for hearing, the City determines that the Cable
Operator is not in complete compliance with all the provisions of the customer
service standards, the Cable Operator shall reduce the rate for the basic tier
of cable service by 20 percent until such time that the City has been satisfied
that the Cable Operator is in compliance with all the provisions of the
customer service standards. In addition, the Cable Operator shall pay to the
City the sum of $100.00 for each day that the Cable Operator fails to be in
compliance with all the provisions of the standards after the date that the
Council has passed a resolution stipulating the sections where the Cable
Operator is in noncompliance.
 
EDITOR’S NOTE 
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted amending the FCC Customer Service Standards.
 
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED      ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
468-94        May 23, 1994
 
CHAPTER 120
LIQUOR LICENSES AND WINE AND BEER PERMITS
 
120.01 License or Permit Required 120.04 Action by Council
120.02 General Prohibition        120.05 Prohibited Sales and Acts
120.03 Investigation              120.06 Amusement Devices
 
120.01   LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall manufacture for sale, import, sell, or offer or keep for sale,
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer without first securing a retail alcohol
license, wine permit, or beer permit in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.22, 123.122, and 123.171)
120.02   GENERAL PROHIBITION.
It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, sell, offer, or keep for sale, possess,
or transport alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer except upon the terms, conditions,
limitations, and restrictions enumerated in Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa,
and a license or permit may be suspended or revoked or a civil penalty may be
imposed for a violation thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.2, 123.39, and 123.50)
120.03   INVESTIGATION.
Upon receipt of an application for a retail alcohol license, the Clerk may
forward it to the Police Chief, who shall then conduct an investigation and
submit a written report as to the truth of the facts averred in the
application. The Fire Chief may also inspect the premises to determine if they
conform to the requirements of the City. The Council shall not approve an
application for a license for any premises that does not conform to the
applicable law and ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.30)
120.04   ACTION BY COUNCIL.
The Council shall either approve or disapprove the issuance of a retail alcohol
license, shall endorse its approval or disapproval on the application, and
shall forward the application with the necessary fee and bond, if required, to
the Iowa Department of Revenue.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.32[2])
120.05   PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS.
A person holding a retail alcohol license and the person’s agents or employees
shall not do any of the following:
   1.   Sell, dispense, or give to any intoxicated person, or one simulating
intoxication, any alcoholic beverage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[1])
   2.   Sell or dispense any alcoholic beverage on the premises covered by the
license or permit its consumption thereon between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:
00 a.m. on any day of the week.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2b])
   3.   Sell alcoholic beverages to any person on credit, except with a bona
fide credit card. This provision does not apply to sales by a club to its
members, to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide registered guests, or to
retail sales by the managing entity of a convention center, civic center, or
events center.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2c])
   4.   Employ a person under 18 years of age in the sale or serving of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold, except as
follows:
      A.   Definitions. For use in this subsection the following terms are
defined as follows:
         (1)   “Bar” means an establishment where one may purchase alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises and in which the serving of food is
only incidental to the consumption of those beverages.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 142D.2[1])
         (2)   “Restaurant” means eating establishments, including private and
public school cafeterias, which offer food to the public, guests, or employees,
including the kitchen and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the
premises for serving elsewhere, and including a bar area within a restaurant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 142D.2[17])
      B.   This subsection shall not apply if the employer has, on file,
written permission from the parent, guardian, or legal custodian of a person 16
or 17 years of age for the person to sell or serve alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises where sold. However, a person 16 or 17 years of age
shall not work in a bar as defined in Paragraph A.
         (1)   The employer shall keep a copy of the written permission on file
until the person is either 18 years of age or no longer engaged in the sale of
or serving alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold.
         (2)   If written permission is on file in accordance with Paragraph B,
a person 16 or 17 years of age may sell or serve alcoholic beverages in a
restaurant as defined above in Paragraph A during the hours in which the
restaurant serves food.
      C.   A person 16 or 17 years of age shall not sell or serve alcoholic
beverages under this subsection unless at least two employees 18 years of age
or older are physically present in the area where alcoholic beverages are sold
or served.
      D.   If a person employed under this subsection reports an incident of
workplace harassment to the employer or if the employer otherwise becomes aware
of such an incident, the employer shall report the incident to the employee’s
parent, guardian, or legal custodian and to the Iowa Civil Rights Commission,
which shall determine if any action is necessary or appropriate under Chapter
216 of the Code of Iowa.
      E.   An employer that employs a person under this subsection shall
require the person to attend training on prevention and response to sexual
harassment upon commencing employment.
      F.   Prior to a person commencing employment under this subsection, the
employer shall notify the employer’s dramshop liability insurer, in a form and
time period prescribed by the Director, that the employer is employing a person
under this subsection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2f])
   5.   In the case of a retail wine or beer permittee, knowingly allow the
mixing or adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to wine, beer, or any
other beverage in or about the permittee’s place of business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2i])
   6.   Knowingly permit any gambling, except in accordance with Iowa law, or
knowingly permit any solicitation for immoral purposes, or immoral or
disorderly conduct on the premises covered by the license.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2a])
   7.   Knowingly permit or engage in any criminal activity on the premises
covered by the license.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2j])
   8.   Keep on premises covered by a retail alcohol license any alcoholic
liquor in any container except the original package purchased from the Iowa
Department of Revenue and except mixed drinks or cocktails mixed on the
premises for immediate consumption. However, mixed drinks or cocktails that are
mixed on the premises and are not for immediate consumption may be consumed on
the licensed premises, subject to rules adopted by the Iowa Department of
Revenue.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2d])
   9.   Reuse for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine any container or
receptacle used originally for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine; or
adulterate, by the addition of any substance, the contents or remaining
contents of an original package of an alcoholic liquor or wine; or knowingly
possess any original package that has been reused or adulterated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2e])
   10.   Allow any person other than the licensee or employees of the licensee
to use or keep on the licensed premises any alcoholic liquor in any bottle or
other container that is designed for the transporting of such beverages, except
as allowed by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2g])
   11.   Sell, give, possess, or otherwise supply a machine that is used to
vaporize an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of being consumed in a vaporized
form.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2k])
120.06   AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
The following provisions pertain to electrical or mechanical amusement devices
possessed and used in accordance with Chapter 99B of the Code of Iowa. (Said
devices are allowed only in premises with a retail alcohol license, as
specifically authorized in said Chapter 99B.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 99B.57)
   1.   As used in this section, “registered electrical or mechanical amusement
device” means an electrical or mechanical device required to be registered with
the Iowa Department of Inspection and Appeals, as provided in Section 99B.53 of
the Code of Iowa.
   2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to participate in the
operation of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   3.   It is unlawful for any person owning or leasing a registered electrical
or mechanical amusement device, or an employee of a person owning or leasing a
registered electrical or mechanical amusement device, to knowingly allow a
person under the age of 21 to participate in the operation of a registered
electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   4.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly participate in the operation
of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device with a person under
the age of 21.
CHAPTER 121
CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO PERMITS
 
121.01 Definitions             121.06 Refunds
121.02 Permit Required         121.07 Persons Under Legal Age
121.03 Application             121.08 Self-Service Sales Prohibited
121.04 Fees                    121.09 Permit Revocation
121.05 Issuance and Expiration
 
121.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.1)
   1.   “Alternative nicotine product” means a product, not consisting of or
containing tobacco, that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing, or
by any other means. “Alternative nicotine product” does not include cigarettes,
tobacco products, or vapor products, or a product that is regulated as a drug
or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   2.   “Cigarette” means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of
tobacco, or any substitute for tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and
irrespective of tobacco or any substitute for tobacco being flavored,
adulterated, or mixed with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper
or cover made of paper or any other material. However, cigarette shall not be
construed to include cigars.
   3.   “Place of business” means any place where cigarettes, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or vapor products are sold, stored, or kept for
the purpose of sale or consumption by a retailer.
   4.   “Retailer” means every person who sells, distributes, or offers for
sale for consumption, or possesses for the purpose of sale for consumption,
cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products, irrespective of
the quantity or amount or the number of sales, or who engages in the business
of selling tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products to ultimate consumers.
   5.   “Self-service display” means any manner of product display, placement,
or storage from which a person purchasing the product may take possession of
the product, prior to purchase, without assistance from the retailer or
employee of the retailer, in removing the product from a restricted access
location.
   6.   “Tobacco products” means the following: cigars; little cigars;
cheroots; stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and
other smoking tobacco; snuff; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and
other chewing tobaccos; shorts or refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and
sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such
manner as to be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or for
both chewing and smoking, but does not mean cigarettes.
   7.   “Vapor product” means any noncombustible product, which may or may not
contain nicotine, that employs a heating element, power source, electronic
circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of
shape or size, that can be used to produce vapor from a solution or other
substance. “Vapor product” includes an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device, and any
cartridge or other container of a solution or other substance, which may or may
not contain nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar
product or device. “Vapor product” does not include a product regulated as a
drug or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter
V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
121.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   1.   Retail Cigarette Permits. It is unlawful for any person, other than a
holder of a retail permit, to sell cigarettes, alternative nicotine products,
or vapor products at retail and no retailer shall distribute, sell, or solicit
the sale of any cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products
within the City without a valid permit for each place of business. The permit
shall, at all times, be publicly displayed at the place of business so as to be
easily seen by the public and the persons authorized to inspect the place of
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13)
   2.   Retail Tobacco Permits. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a retailer of tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products at any place of business without first having
received a permit as a retailer for each place of business owned or operated by
the retailer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A)
A retailer who holds a retail cigarette permit is not required to also obtain a
retail tobacco permit. However, if a retailer only holds a retail cigarette
permit and that permit is suspended, revoked, or expired, the retailer shall
not sell any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products, during such time.
121.03   APPLICATION.
A completed application on forms furnished by the State Department of Revenue
or on forms made available or approved by the Department and accompanied by the
required fee shall be filed with the Clerk. Renewal applications shall be filed
at least five days prior to the last regular meeting of the Council in June. If
a renewal application is not timely filed, and a special Council meeting is
called to act on the application, the costs of such special meeting shall be
paid by the applicant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.04   FEES.
The fee for a retail cigarette or tobacco permit shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
 
FOR PERMITS GRANTED DURING:    FEE:
July, August, or September     $ 75.00
October, November, or December $ 56.25
January, February, or March    $ 37.50
April, May, or June            $ 18.75
 
121.05   ISSUANCE AND EXPIRATION.
Upon proper application and payment of the required fee, a permit shall be
issued. Each permit issued shall describe clearly the place of business for
which it is issued and shall be nonassignable. All permits expire on June 30 of
each year. The Clerk shall submit a duplicate of any application for a permit
to the Iowa Department of Revenue within 30 days of issuance of a permit.
121.06   REFUNDS.
A retailer may surrender an unrevoked permit and receive a refund from the
City, except during April, May, or June, in accordance with the schedule of
refunds as provided in Section 453A.13 or 453A.47A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.07   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
A person shall not sell, give, or otherwise supply any tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes to any
person under 21 years of age. The provision of this section includes
prohibiting a person under 21 years of age from purchasing tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, and cigarettes from a
vending machine. If a retailer or employee of a retailer violates the
provisions of this section, the Council shall, after written notice and
hearing, and in addition to the other penalties fixed for such violation,
assess the following:
   1.   For a first violation, the retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty
in the amount of $300.00. Failure to pay the civil penalty as ordered under
this subsection shall result in automatic suspension of the permit for a period
of 14 days.
   2.   For a second violation within a period of two years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 or the retailer’s permit
shall be suspended for a period of 30 days. The retailer may select its
preference in the penalty to be applied under this subsection.
   3.   For a third violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.
   4.   For a fourth violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 60 days.
   5.   For a fifth violation within a period of four years, the retailer’s
permit shall be revoked.
The Clerk shall give 10 days’ written notice to the retailer by mailing a copy
of the notice to the place of business as it appears on the application for a
permit. The notice shall state the reason for the contemplated action and the
time and place at which the retailer may appear and be heard.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2, 453A.22, and 453A.36[6])
121.08   SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED.
Except for the sale of cigarettes through a cigarette vending machine as
provided in Section 453A.36[6] of the Code of Iowa, a retailer shall not sell
or offer for sale tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products, or cigarettes through the use of a self-service display.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.36A)
121.09   PERMIT REVOCATION.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, as provided by the
Code of Iowa, the Council may also revoke a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter for a violation of Division I of Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or
any rule adopted thereunder. If a permit is revoked, a new permit shall not be
issued to the permit holder for any place of business, or to any other person
for the place of business at which the violation occurred, until one year has
expired from the date of revocation, unless good cause to the contrary is shown
to the Council. The Clerk shall report the revocation or suspension of a retail
permit to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce within
30 days of the revocation or suspension.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.22)
CHAPTER 122
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
122.01 Purpose                  122.11 Revocation of License
122.02 Definitions              122.12 Hearing
122.03 License Required         122.13 Record and Determination
122.04 Application for License  122.14 Appeal
122.05 License Fees             122.15 Effect of Revocation
122.06 Bond Required            122.16 Rebates
122.07 License Issued           122.17 License Exemptions
122.08 Display of License       122.18 Charitable and Nonprofit Organizations
122.09 License Not Transferable 122.19 Character
122.10 Time Restriction
 
122.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to protect residents of the City against fraud,
unfair competition, and intrusion into the privacy of their homes by licensing
and regulating peddlers, solicitors, and transient merchants.
122.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Peddler” means any person carrying goods or merchandise who sells or
offers for sale for immediate delivery such goods or merchandise from house to
house or upon the public street.
   2.   “Solicitor” means any person who solicits or attempts to solicit from
house to house or upon the public street any contribution or donation or any
order for goods, services, subscriptions, or merchandise to be delivered at a
future date.
   3.   “Transient merchant” means any person who engages in a temporary or
itinerant merchandising business and in the course of such business hires,
leases, or occupies any building or structure whatsoever, or who operates out
of a vehicle that is parked anywhere within the City limits. Temporary
association with a local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer, or conduct of
such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any
local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer does not exempt any person from
being considered a transient merchant.
122.03   LICENSE REQUIRED.
Any person who calls at a residence without the previous consent of the
occupant for the purpose of selling anything of value, or of soliciting orders,
sales, subscriptions, or business of any kind shall first procure a peddler’s
license as provided for herein. The term “person” as used herein includes
natural persons, corporations, firms and organizations of any description,
whether acting in person or through agents, employers or other persons.
122.04   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
An application in writing shall be filed with the Clerk for a license under
this chapter. Such application shall set forth the applicant’s name, permanent
address, local address, and business address, if any. The application shall
also set forth the applicant’s employer, if any, and the employer’s address,
the nature of the applicant’s business, the last three places of such business
and the length of time sought to be covered by the license. The applicant shall
submit a recent photograph (head and shoulders sufficient for identification)
no smaller than one inch by two inches, or a copy of their photo ID or photo
driver’s license, to be retained by the Clerk. As a part of the application,
the applicant shall submit a report of criminal history data obtained from the
Iowa Department of Public Safety. A non-refundable application fee of $20.00
shall be paid at the time of filing such application to cover the cost of
investigating the facts stated herein.
122.05   LICENSE FEES.
A license fee in the following amount shall be paid to the Clerk prior to the
issuance of any license to cover the cost of issuance of the license and
policing during the licensing period:
   1.   One day permit   $20.00
   2.   One week permit   $100.00
122.06   BOND REQUIRED.
Before a license under this chapter is issued to a transient merchant, an
applicant shall provide to the Clerk evidence that the applicant has filed a
bond, in the amount of $1,000.00, with the Secretary of State in accordance
with Chapter 9C of the Code of Iowa.
122.07   LICENSE ISSUED.
If the Clerk finds the application is completed in conformance with the
requirements of this chapter, the facts stated therein are found to be correct
and the license fee paid, a license shall be issued. The license shall
authorize the applicant to engage in the activities described in Section 122.02
of this chapter for the period stated in the license, provided that nothing
herein shall authorize any act or practice which is contrary to any law or
ordinance. Upon expiration of the license, a new application shall be made and
a new license shall be issued in the same manner as the original license.
122.08   DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
Each solicitor or peddler shall keep such license in possession at all times
while doing business in the City and shall, upon the request of prospective
customers, exhibit the license as evidence of compliance with all requirements
of this chapter. Each transient merchant shall display publicly such merchant’s
license in the merchant’s place of business.
122.09   LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter are not transferable in
any situation and are to be applicable only to the person filing the
application.
122.10   TIME RESTRICTION.
All licenses shall provide that said licenses are in force and effect only
between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. daily.
122.11   REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, the Clerk may
revoke any license issued pursuant to this chapter for the following reasons:
   1.   Fraudulent Statements. The licensee has made fraudulent statements in
the application for the license or in the conduct of the business.
   2.   Violation of Law. The licensee has violated this chapter or has
otherwise conducted the business in an unlawful manner.
   3.   Endangered Public Welfare, Health, or Safety. The licensee has
conducted the business in such manner as to endanger the public welfare,
safety, order, or morals.
The Clerk shall send the written notice to the licensee at the licensee’s local
address. The notice shall contain particulars of the complaints against the
licensee, the ordinance provisions or State statutes allegedly violated, and
the date, time, and place for hearing on the matter.
122.12   HEARING.
The Clerk shall conduct a hearing at which both the licensee and any
complainants shall be present to determine the truth of the facts alleged in
the complaint and notice. Should the licensee, or authorized representative,
fail to appear without good cause, the Clerk may proceed to a determination of
the complaint.
122.13   RECORD AND DETERMINATION.
The Clerk shall make and record findings of fact and conclusions of law, and
shall revoke a license only when upon review of the entire record the Clerk
finds clear and convincing evidence of substantial violation of this chapter or
State law.
122.14   APPEAL.
If the Clerk revokes or refuses to issue a license, the Clerk shall make a part
of the record the reasons for such revocation or refusal. The licensee, or the
applicant, shall have a right to a hearing before the Council at its next
regular meeting. The Council may reverse, modify, or affirm the decision of the
Clerk by a majority vote of the Council members present and the Clerk shall
carry out the decision of the Council.
122.15   EFFECT OF REVOCATION.
Revocation of any license shall bar the licensee from being eligible for any
license under this chapter for a period of one year from the date of the
revocation.
122.16   REBATES.
Any licensee, except in the case of a revoked license, shall be entitled to a
rebate of part of the fee paid if the license is surrendered before it expires.
The amount of the rebate shall be determined by dividing the total license fee
by the number of days for which the license was issued and then multiplying the
result by the number of full days not expired. In all cases, at least $5.00 of
the original fee shall be retained by the City to cover administrative costs.
122.17   LICENSE EXEMPTIONS.
The following are excluded from the application of this chapter.
   1.   Newspapers. Persons delivering, collecting for, or selling
subscriptions to newspapers.
   2.   Club Members. Members of local civic and service clubs, Boy Scout, Girl
Scout, 4-H Clubs, Future Farmers of America, and similar organizations.
   3.   Local Residents and Farmers. Local residents and farmers who offer for
sale their own products.
   4.   Students. Students representing the Postville School District
conducting projects sponsored by organizations recognized by the school.
   5.   Route Sales. Route delivery persons who only incidentally solicit
additional business or make special sales.
   6.   Resale or Institutional Use. Persons customarily calling on businesses
or institutions for the purposes of selling products for resale or
institutional use.
   7.   Minor Businesses. An on-site transactional business traditionally
operated exclusively by a person under the age of 18, operated on an occasional
basis for no more than 89 calendar days in a calendar year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[13])
122.18   CHARITABLE AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
Authorized representatives of charitable or nonprofit organizations operating
under the provisions of Chapter 504 of the Code of Iowa desiring to solicit
money or to distribute literature are exempt from the operation of Sections
122.04 and
122.05. All such organizations are required to submit to the Clerk in writing
the name and purpose of the cause for which such activities are sought, names,
and addresses of the officers and directors of the organization, the period
during which such activities are to be carried on, and whether any commissions,
fees, or wages are to be charged by the solicitor and the amount thereof. If
the Clerk finds that the organization is a bona fide charity or nonprofit
organization, the Clerk shall issue, free of charge, a license containing the
above information to the applicant. In the event the Clerk denies the
exemption, the authorized representatives of the organization may appeal the
decision to the Council, as provided in Section
122.14 of this chapter.
122.19   CHARACTER.
In no case where it appears from the application that the applicant has been
convicted of any felony, or a crime of violence against a person, or arrested
for a crime of theft or fraud or a crime involving moral turpitude, or have
such a charge pending against said person, shall a peddler’s license be issued.
The Council may waive this provision upon receiving satisfactory evidence of
such person’s present good character.
CHAPTER 123
HOUSE MOVERS
 
123.01 House Mover Defined 123.07 Permit Issued
123.02 Permit Required     123.08 Public Safety
123.03 Application         123.09 Time Limit
123.04 Bond Required       123.10 Removal by City
123.05 Insurance Required  123.11 Protect Pavement
123.06 Permit Fee          123.12 Overhead Wires
 
123.01   HOUSE MOVER DEFINED.
A “house mover” means any person who undertakes to move a building or similar
structure upon, over, or across public streets or property when the building or
structure is of such size that it requires the use of skids, jacks, dollies, or
any other specialized moving equipment.
123.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any person to engage in the activity of house mover as
herein defined without a valid permit from the City for each house, building,
or similar structure to be moved.
123.03   APPLICATION.
Application for a house mover’s permit shall be made in writing to the Clerk on
a form provided by the City. The application shall include:
   1.   Name and Address. The applicant’s full name and address and, if a
corporation, the names and addresses of its principal officers.
   2.   Building Location. An accurate description of the present location and
future site of the building or similar structure to be moved.
   3.   Routing Plan. A routing plan approved by the Police Chief, street
superintendent, and public utility officials. The route approved shall be the
shortest route compatible with the greatest public convenience and safety.
123.04   BOND REQUIRED.
The applicant shall post with the Clerk a penal bond in the minimum sum of
$5,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue such bonds in the
State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for any damage done to
the City or to public property, and payment of all costs incurred by the City
in the course of moving the building or structure.
123.05   INSURANCE REQUIRED.
Each applicant shall also file a certificate of insurance indicating that the
applicant is carrying public liability insurance in effect for the duration of
the permit covering the applicant and all agents and employees for the
following minimum amounts:
   1.   Bodily Injury – $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
   2.   Property Damage – $50,000.00 per accident.
123.06   PERMIT FEE.
A permit fee of $10.00 shall be payable at the time of filing the application
with the Clerk. A separate permit shall be required for each house, building or
similar structure to be moved.
123.07   PERMIT ISSUED.
Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and insurance certificate, and
payment of the required fee, the Clerk shall issue a permit.
123.08   PUBLIC SAFETY.
At all times when a building or similar structure is in motion upon any street,
alley, sidewalk, or public property, the permittee shall maintain flag persons
at the closest intersections or other possible channels of traffic to the
sides, behind, and ahead of the building or structure. At all times when the
building or structure is at rest upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or public
property the permittee shall maintain adequate warning signs or lights at the
intersections or channels of traffic to the sides, behind, and ahead of the
building or structure.
123.09   TIME LIMIT.
No house mover shall permit or allow a building or similar structure to remain
upon any street or other public way for a period of more than 12 hours without
having first secured the written approval of the City.
123.10   REMOVAL BY CITY.
In the event any building or similar structure is found to be in violation of
Section 123.09, the City is authorized to remove such building or structure and
assess the costs thereof against the permit holder and the surety on the permit
holder’s bond.
123.11   PROTECT PAVEMENT.
It is unlawful to move any house or building of any kind over any pavement,
unless the wheels or rollers upon which the house or building is moved are at
least one inch in width for each 1,000 pounds of weight of such building. If
there is any question as to the weight of a house or building, the estimate of
the City as to such weight shall be final.
123.12   OVERHEAD WIRES.
The holder of any permit to move a building shall see that all telephone, cable
television, and electric wires and poles are removed when necessary and
replaced in good order, and shall be liable for the costs of the same.
CHAPTER 124
MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
 
124.01 Definitions                             124.06 License Issued
124.02 License Required                        124.07 Exceptions
124.03 Application                             124.08 General Regulations
124.04 Insurance Required and Criminal History 124.09 Enforcement and Penalties
Report
124.05 License Fees
 
124.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   1.   “Mobile food unit” means any type of annually licensed food
establishment that is a readily movable vehicle (on wheels), that is self-
propelled (driven), or can be pulled or pushed (pushcart) to a location and
used for the vending of food or beverage items to the general public.
   2.   “Mobile food vendor” means a person engaged in the business of selling
prepared food or beverages from a mobile food unit.
   3.   “Person” means natural persons, corporation, firms, and organizations
of any description, whether acting in person or through agents, employees, or
other persons.
124.02   LICENSE REQUIRED.  
No person shall sell or offer for sale or otherwise engage in business as a
mobile food unit within the City without having first obtained a license to
operate as such. A Mobile Food Unit License is a special license and is
required in addition to any other required City business license or State
license the person may hold or be required to hold. A separate mobile food unit
license is required for each mobile food vehicle from which business is
conducted in the City. Mobile Food Unit Licenses are not transferable or
assignable. The license issuance shall be approved by the Clerk. All licenses
expire December 31. If said license calls for establishment or operation in a
public park, then approval must be granted by the Council prior to the Clerk’s
approval.
124.03   APPLICATION.  
At least three business days prior to the first day any sale is made, an
application in writing shall be filed with the Clerk for a license under this
ordinance. A copy of the State Retail Sales Tax Permit, food inspection report,
State issued food license, and appropriate insurance certificate must accompany
the application. A nonrefundable license fee is due for each applicant as
listed in Section 124.05.
124.04   INSURANCE REQUIRED AND CRIMINAL HISTORY REPORT.
   1.   Before a license under this chapter is issued, the applicant shall
provide to the Clerk proof of liability insurance, including commercial general
liability insurance coverage and automobile liability insurance coverage.
Commercial general liability insurance shall include coverage for bodily
injury, death and property damage with limits of liability of not less than one
million dollars per occurrence and aggregate combined single limit. Automobile
liability insurance coverage shall include coverage for bodily injury, death
and property damage with limits of liability not less than one million dollars
per occurrence, combined single limit. Certificates of insurance shall provide
that the policy or policies have been endorsed to provide 30 days advance
notice of cancellation for non-payment of premium and that these notices shall
be provided to the Clerk’s office by email, facsimile, or mail. Cancellation of
required insurance automatically revokes and terminates the mobile food unit
license to operate in the City unless other insurance policies are provided in
a timely manner to the City.
   2.   The application signed by the applicant authorizes the City to perform
a Department of Criminal Investigation Criminal History Report or Record for
applicant from the state of applicant’s residence for the previous five years
to include pending charges.
124.05   LICENSE FEES.
Applicant shall pay the following fee to the Clerk prior to the issuance of any
license:
   1.   Annual mobile food unit - $150.00.
   2.   Single event mobile food unit - $50.00.
124.06   LICENSE ISSUED.  
If the Clerk finds the application is completed in conformance with the
requirements of this chapter, the facts therein are found to be correct, and
the insurance certificate and State licenses are in compliance, the Clerk shall
issue a license and charge a fee as determined by Section
124.05.
124.07   EXCEPTIONS.
   1.   Temporary mobile food units associated with a public celebration or
special event hosted by a public body, community organization, charitable
organization, patriotic organization, religious organization, education
institution or similar entity are exempt from the licensing provisions of this
chapter provided the unit’s participation is by invitation or contract with the
host or sponsoring organization and provided the unit displays proof of its
authorization to operate in Iowa and required health inspection certification.
   2.   Temporary mobile food units selling only fresh produce are exempt.
124.08   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   1.   In order to operate in the City, mobile food units shall possess and
maintain at all times all necessary licenses and permits from the State
Department of Inspections and Appeals as well as the City’s required permits
and licenses.
   2.   At all times mobile food units shall operate in compliance with all
applicable food, health, and sanitation laws and shall comply with all health
department regulations regarding food service, food storage and preparation,
food handling and food cooking, and shall always have a valid inspection
certificate or permit evidencing health department inspection and approval on
display and easily visible to the mobile food unit’s patrons in operation.
   3.   Permitted hours of operation for a mobile food unit is from 7:00 a.m.
to 2:00 a.m. any day of the week. The mobile food vendor may sell any type of
food or non-alcoholic beverage. The sale of nicotine, liquor, beer, or wine is
strictly prohibited.
   4.   No mobile food unit shall operate in a manner that violates this Code
concerning noise and public disturbance. A mobile food unit shall not call out
to, cry out, shout out, or otherwise communicate or make any noise or use any
device to call attention to his or her unit’s location and operation.
   5.   A mobile food unit is responsible for keeping and maintaining the area
around and within 50 feet of the mobile food unit neat, clean and fresh from
trash, debris, garbage, and other hazardous conditions at all times regardless
of whether the trash, debris, or garbage originated from the operation of the
unit or was left in the area by a pedestrian passersby or natural condition. A
mobile food unit shall provide adequate trash receptacles for the public, for
all garbage from its operation and from the accumulation of garbage in the area
around their unit at all times the unit is in operation. At the close of its
daily business, the mobile food unit must remove all garbage from the area and
properly dispose of it away from the site of its operation. The garbage shall
not simply be placed in nearby public garbage receptacles provided for use to
the general public at large.
   6.   The license required by this chapter, the State sales tax permit and
all licenses, permits, or certificates required to be displayed by State law,
shall be posted on the mobile food unit so as to be readily visible to all
persons conducting business with the mobile food unit.
   7.   Mobile food units shall only offer single service food utensils such as
cups, straws, knives, forks, spoons, stirrers, plates, bowls, wrappers,
containers, and similar utensils, and kept in a clean place and only used once
in the service of food or beverage.
   8.   No mobile food unit shall be left at its operating location at the end
of its business day and shall be removed to its base business operation
location, unless associated with a multi-day event or festival.
   9.   No mobile food unit shall conduct operations at a location or in a
manner that hinders, impedes, or restricts access to a pay phone, mailbox,
emergency call box, traffic control box, fire hydrant, entrance to a building
or driveway, or any other similar infrastructure.
   10.   No mobile food unit shall conduct operations within 150 feet of any
restaurant established in a building.
   11.   A mobile food unit operating on private property shall not encroach
into any public sidewalk or public right of way.
   12.   A mobile food unit shall not violate parking regulations.
   13.   No mobile food unit is allowed on the grounds of any school unless it
has been invited to be there as part of a school authorized function.
   14.   The City reserves the right to move a mobile food unit from any
location if determined to be necessary for the provision of emergency or public
services or in the interest of public safety, peace, and welfare.
   15.   When operating on City local right of way – City streets, parks,
parking lots, and public space – mobile food units must acquire signed
permission from all front, side, and back facing business owners and provide a
copy of same to Clerk.
   16.   When operating on private property mobile food units must acquire
signed permission from the business owner and provide a copy of same to Clerk.
   17.   Mobile food unit vendors agree to indemnify and hold harmless the City
from and against any and all loss, cost, damages, or claims to persons or
property, including property of the City, arising out of or claimed to have
arisen out of the operation of a mobile food unit. In addition, mobile food
vendors agree to defend, at no cost to the City, any such claims or lawsuits.
The City may, at its option, join the defense of such claim or lawsuit without
relieving the mobile food vendor from its obligations to indemnify, hold
harmless, and defend the City.
   18.   No mobile food unit shall conduct business in areas of the City at
which they are not permitted or authorized.
   19.   Sales shall be conducted on the side of the mobile food unit away from
moving vehicles.
   20.   No mobile food unit should provide or allow any dining area, tables,
chairs, booths, benches, bar stools, stand-up counters, or similar furniture.
124.09   ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.  
Any violation of this chapter may be considered a municipal infraction under
Chapter 3 of this Code. Additionally, failure to adhere to the regulations of
this chapter may be cause for revocation or suspension of a license to operate
as a mobile food unit.
CHAPTER 135
STREET USE AND MAINTENANCE
 
135.01 Removal of Warning Devices        135.08 Burning Prohibited
135.02 Obstructing or Defacing           135.09 Excavations
135.03 Placing Debris On                 135.10 Maintenance of Boulevard or
                                         Terrace
135.04 Playing In                        135.11 Failure to Maintain
135.05 Traveling On Barricaded Street or 135.12 Dumping of Snow
Alley
135.06 Use for Business Purposes         135.13 Driveway Culverts
135.07 Washing Vehicles
 
135.01   REMOVAL OF WARNING DEVICES.
It is unlawful for a person to willfully remove, throw down, destroy, or carry
away from any street or alley any lamp, obstruction, guard, or other article or
things, or extinguish any lamp or other light, erected or placed thereupon for
the purpose of guarding or enclosing unsafe or dangerous places in said street
or alley without the consent of the person in control thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.02   OBSTRUCTING OR DEFACING.
It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, deface or injure any street or alley
in any manner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.03   PLACING DEBRIS ON.
It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street or alley any
glass, glass bottle, nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter,
offal, leaves, grass, or any other debris likely to be washed into the storm
sewer and clog the storm sewer, or any substance likely to injure any person,
animal, or vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.369)
135.04   PLAYING IN.
It is unlawful for any person to coast, sled, or play games on streets or
alleys, except in the areas blocked off by the City for such purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.05   TRAVELING ON BARRICADED STREET OR ALLEY.
It is unlawful for any person to travel or operate any vehicle on any street or
alley temporarily closed by barricades, lights, signs, or flares placed thereon
by the authority or permission of any City official, police officer, or member
of the Fire Department.
135.06   USE FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.
It is unlawful to park, store or place, temporarily or permanently, any
machinery or junk or any other goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind upon
any street or alley for the purpose of storage, exhibition, sale, or offering
same for sale, without permission of the Council.
135.07   WASHING VEHICLES.
It is unlawful for any person to use any public sidewalk, street, or alley for
the purpose of washing or cleaning any automobile, truck equipment, or any
vehicle of any kind when such work is done for hire or as a business. This does
not prevent any person from washing or cleaning his or her own vehicle or
equipment when it is lawfully parked in the street or alley.
135.08   BURNING PROHIBITED.
No person shall burn any trash, leaves, rubbish, or other combustible material
in any curb and gutter or on any paved or surfaced street or alley.
135.09   EXCAVATIONS.
No person shall dig, excavate, or in any manner disturb any street, parking, or
alley except in accordance with the following:
   1.   Permit Required. No excavation shall be commenced without first
obtaining a permit. A written application for such permit shall be filed with
the City and shall contain the following:
      A.   An exact description of the property, by lot and street number, in
front of or along which it is desired to excavate;
      B.   A statement of the purpose, for whom and by whom the excavation is
to be made;
      C.   The person responsible for the refilling of said excavation and
restoration of the street or alley surface; and
      D.   Date of commencement of the work and estimated completion date.
   2.   Public Convenience. Streets and alleys shall be opened in the manner
that will cause the least inconvenience to the public and admit the
uninterrupted passage of water along the gutter on the street.
   3.   Barricades, Fencing, and Lighting. Adequate barricades, fencing, and
warning lights meeting standards specified by the City shall be so placed as to
protect the public from hazard. Any costs incurred by the City in providing or
maintaining adequate barricades, fencing, or warning lights shall be paid to
the City by the permit holder or property owner.
   4.   Bond Required. The applicant shall post with the City a penal bond in
the minimum sum of $1,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue
such bonds in the State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for
any damage done to the City or to public property, and payment of all costs
incurred by the City in the course of administration of this section. In lieu
of a surety bond, a cash deposit of $1,000.00 may be filed with the City.
   5.   Insurance Required. Each applicant shall also file a certificate of
insurance indicating that the applicant is carrying public liability insurance
in effect for the duration of the permit covering the applicant and all agents
and employees for the following minimum amounts:
      A.   Bodily Injury - $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
      B.   Property Damage - $50,000.00 per accident.
   6.   Restoration of Public Property. Streets, sidewalks, alleys, and other
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored to the
condition of the property prior to the commencement of the work, or in a manner
satisfactory to the City, at the expense of the permit holder or property
owner.
   7.   Inspection. All work shall be subject to inspection by the City.
Backfill shall not be deemed completed, and no resurfacing of any improved
street or alley surface shall begin, until such backfill is inspected and
approved by the City. The permit holder or property owner shall provide the
City with notice at least 24 hours prior to the time when inspection of
backfill is desired.
   8.   Completion by the City. Should any excavation in any street or alley be
discontinued or left open and unfinished for a period of 24 hours after the
approved completion date, or in the event the work is improperly done, the City
has the right to finish or correct the excavation work and charge any expenses
for such work to the permit holder or property owner.
   9.   Responsibility for Costs. All costs and expenses incident to the
excavation shall be borne by the permit holder or property owner. The permit
holder and owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by such excavation.
   10.   Notification. At least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the
excavation, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, the person
performing the excavation shall contact the Statewide Notification Center and
provide the center with the information required under Section 480.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
   11.   Permit Issued. Upon approval of the application and filing of bond and
insurance certificate, a permit shall be issued. A separate permit shall be
required for each excavation.
   12.   Permit Exemption. Utility companies are exempt from the permit
application requirement of this section. They shall, however, comply with all
other pertinent provisions.
135.10   MAINTENANCE OF BOULDEVARD OR TERRACE.
   1.   Purpose. It is the purpose and intent of the City that boulevards be
constructed and maintained to enhance and improve the aesthetic appearance of
City streets and highways as an aid to maintaining the quality and livability
of the residential neighborhoods of the City.
   2.   Definitions.
      A.   “Boulevards” means that part of all streets lying between the
property line and the roadway.
      B.   “Carriage walk” means that part of a boulevard lying between the
sidewalk and the roadway which operates as a linear extension of a walkway
extending from a building entrance to such sidewalk.
   3.   Boulevard Maintenance. It is the responsibility of the abutting
property owner to maintain all property outside the lot and property line and
inside the curb lines upon the public streets, except that the abutting
property owner shall not be required to remove diseased trees or dead wood on
the publicly owned property or right-of-way. Maintenance includes timely
mowing, trimming trees and shrubs, and picking up litter.
   4.   Vegetation Prohibited. The growing or planting of any weed or similar
noxious plant or vegetation on any boulevard is prohibited.
   5.   Vegetation Permitted. The growing or planting of vegetables, fruits,
hedges or similar plants or vegetation on boulevards shall be permitted upon
issuance of a permit therefore by the Council, on the following conditions:
      A.   Vegetation grown on that part of any boulevard between the sidewalk
and the roadway shall not exceed 24 inches in height except for vegetation
grown within 40 feet of an intersection or 10 feet of an alley or driveway
approach which shall not exceed 18 inches in height.
      B.   The growing of grass in compliance with Section
151.07 of this Code, and flowers in compliance with Paragraph A of this
subsection on boulevards is exempt from the requirements of this section.
The Director of Public Works shall process and forward all applications for
such permit to the Council and recommend whether the permit should be granted.
   6.   Carriage Walks. No person shall construct or place any carriage walk
upon any boulevard without first obtaining a permit. Such carriage walk shall
be constructed of concrete, or of brick if approved by the Clerk or
Administrator. In no event shall the carriage walk exceed six feet in width or
be constructed of blacktop, asphalt, or similar material.
   7.   Paving Permit Required. Other than such carriage walks, no person shall
pave over or cover any boulevard unless a permit has been granted by the
Council upon a finding that paving or covering of the boulevard will not have a
substantially negative impact on the aesthetic appearance of adjacent
residential properties. The Clerk or Administrator shall process and forward
all applications for such permit to the Council and recommend whether the
permit should be granted. In no event shall any person use blacktop, asphalt,
gravel or any similar material to pave over or cover any portion of the
boulevard.
   8.   Compliance Requirements. If the Clerk or Administrator determines that
a property is in violation of this section, then said officer shall send a
notice to the property owner by certified mail, which notice shall describe for
the property owner the alleged violation. The property owner shall be given 60
days in which to bring his or her property into compliance. If the affected
property owner disputes the determination of Clerk or Administrator, then the
said property owner may appeal the decision of the Clerk or Administrator to
the Council within 60 days after receiving the notice from the Clerk or
Administrator. Once the property has been determined to be in violation of this
section, and upon failure by the property owner to bring the affected property
into compliance with this section, then the City may take such steps as are
necessary to bring the property into compliance and assess the reasonable costs
thereof against the affected property.
   9.   Exemptions.
      A.   Property located in C-1, C-2, I-1, and I-2 zoning districts is
exempt from the provisions of this section unless such property is located
contiguous to any residentially zoned property.
      B.   Property used for nonresidential educational purposes is exempt from
the provisions of this section to the extent that properly designated and
constructed vehicle loading areas are created on the boulevard adjacent to such
property.
      C.   Bicycle or pedestrian paths constructed by the City or the Park
Board are exempt from the provisions of this section.
135.11   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
If the abutting property owner does not perform an action required under the
above section within a reasonable time, the City may perform the required
action and assess the cost against the abutting property for collection in the
same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2e])
135.12   DUMPING OF SNOW.
It is unlawful for any person to throw, push, or place or cause to be thrown,
pushed or placed, any ice or snow from private property, sidewalks, or
driveways onto the traveled way of a street or alley so as to obstruct gutters,
or impede the passage of vehicles upon the street or alley or to create a
hazardous condition therein; except where, in the cleaning of large commercial
drives in the business district it is absolutely necessary to move the snow
onto the street or alley temporarily, such accumulation shall be removed
promptly by the property owner or agent. Arrangements for the prompt removal of
such accumulations shall be made prior to moving the snow. The cost of removal
of such deposits by the City shall be assessed against the owner of the
property from which the snow was removed at such rates as may, from time to
time, be established by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.13   DRIVEWAY CULVERTS.
The property owner shall, at the owner’s expense, install any culvert deemed
necessary under any driveway or any other access to the owner’s property, and
before installing a culvert, permission must first be obtained from the City.
In the event repairs are needed at any time with respect to culverts, it shall
be the responsibility of the property owner to make such repairs, and, in the
event the owner fails to do so, the City shall have the right to make the
repairs. If the property owner fails to reimburse the City for the cost of said
repairs, the cost shall be certified to the County Treasurer and specially
assessed against the property as by law provided.
CHAPTER 136
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
136.01 Purpose                               136.12 Failure to Repair or
                                             Barricade
136.02 Definitions                           136.13 Interference with Sidewalk
                                             Improvements
136.03 Removal of Snow, Ice, and             136.14 Awnings
Accumulations
136.04 Property Owner’s Responsibility for 136.15 Encroaching Steps
Maintenance
136.05 City May Order Repairs                136.16 Openings and Enclosures
136.06 Sidewalk Construction Ordered         136.17 Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
136.07 Permit Required                       136.18 Engraving In Sidewalk or
                                             Writing on Sidewalk
136.08 Failure to Obtain Permit; Remedies    136.19 Debris on Sidewalks
136.09 Inspection and Approval               136.20 Merchandise Display
136.10 Sidewalk Standards                    136.21 Sales Stands
136.11 Barricades and Warning Lights
 
136.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to enhance safe passage by citizens on
sidewalks, to place the responsibility for the maintenance, repair,
replacement, or reconstruction of sidewalks upon the abutting property owner
and to minimize the liability of the City.
136.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Broom finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by sweeping the
sidewalk when it is hardening.
   2.   “Established grade” means that grade established by the City for the
particular area in which a sidewalk is to be constructed.
   3.   “One-course construction” means that the full thickness of the concrete
is placed at one time, using the same mixture throughout.
   4.   “Owner” means the person owning the fee title to property abutting any
sidewalk and includes any contract purchaser for purposes of notification
required herein. For all other purposes, “owner” includes the lessee, if any.
   5.   “Portland cement” means any type of cement except bituminous cement.
   6.   “Sidewalk” means all permanent public walks in business, residential or
suburban areas.
   7.   “Sidewalk improvements” means the construction, reconstruction, repair,
replacement, or removal of a public sidewalk or the excavating, filling, or
depositing of material in the public right-of-way in connection therewith.
   8.   “Wood float finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by smoothing
the surface of the sidewalk with a wooden trowel.
136.03   REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, AND ACCUMULATIONS.
It is the responsibility of the abutting property owners to remove snow of one
inch or more, ice and accumulations promptly from sidewalks. If a property
owner does not remove snow of one inch or more, ice or accumulations within 48
hours after precipitation, but within 24 hours for properties located in the
Business District, the City may do so and assess the costs against the property
owner for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2b and e])
136.04   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall maintain in a safe and hazard-free condition
any sidewalk outside the lot and property lines and inside the curb lines or,
in the absence of a curb, any sidewalk between the property line and that
portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2)(c))
136.05   CITY MAY ORDER REPAIRS.
If the abutting property owner does not maintain sidewalks as required, the
Council may serve notice on such owner, by certified mail, requiring the owner
to repair, replace or reconstruct sidewalks within a reasonable time and if
such action is not completed within the time stated in the notice, the Council
may require the work to be done and assess the costs against the abutting
property for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2d and e])
136.06   SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION ORDERED.
The Council may order the construction of permanent sidewalks upon any street
or court in the City and may specially assess the cost of such improvement to
abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 384 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.38)
136.07   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall make any sidewalk improvements unless such person obtains a
permit from the Clerk or Administrator. The permit shall state that the person
will comply with the ordinances of the City and with the specifications for
sidewalks adopted by the City. The permit shall also state that the work will
be done under the direction and approval of the Clerk or Administrator. All
such permits shall be issued without charge and a copy thereof, with the
application, shall be filed and preserved in the office of the Clerk. The
permit shall state when the work is to be commenced and when the work is to be
completed. The time of completion for the sidewalk improvements may be extended
by the Clerk or Administrator. All permits for sidewalk improvements not
ordered by resolution of the Council shall be issued in compliance with this
chapter. The Clerk or Administrator may withhold the issuance of any permit for
any sidewalk improvements for a sufficient period to determine the necessity
for the proposed improvements or when weather conditions will adversely affect
the sidewalk improvements.
136.08   FAILURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT; REMEDIES.
Whenever any sidewalk improvements are made that do not conform to the
provisions of this chapter and with the specifications or when any sidewalk
improvements are made without a permit, the Clerk or Administrator shall serve
notice to obtain a permit upon the property owner and upon the contractor doing
the work. If the sidewalk is in the course of construction, the notice shall
order the work to stop until a permit is obtained and the work is corrected to
comply with the specifications. If the sidewalk work has been completed, the
owner shall obtain a permit immediately and perform any needed corrections
within five days after receipt of the permit. If the owner fails to comply with
this notice, the Clerk or Administrator shall have the work completed and the
costs assessed to the property owner.
136.09   INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
Upon final completion, the Clerk or Administrator shall inspect the work. The
Clerk or Administrator may order corrections if the work does not meet
specifications. When the work does meet all requirements of this chapter, the
specifications and the permit, the Clerk or Administrator shall indicate this
on both copies of the permit.
136.10   SIDEWALK STANDARDS.
Sidewalks repaired, replaced, or constructed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be of the following construction and meet the following
standards:
   1.   Cement. Portland cement shall be the only cement used in the
construction and repair of sidewalks.
   2.   Construction. Sidewalks shall be of one-course construction.
   3.   Sidewalk Base. Concrete may be placed directly on compact and well-
drained soil. Where soil is not well drained, a three-inch sub-base of compact,
clean, coarse gravel or sand shall be laid. The adequacy of the soil drainage
is to be determined by the City.
   4.   Sidewalk Bed. The sidewalk bed shall be so graded that the constructed
sidewalk will be at established grade.
   5.   Length, Width and Depth. Length, width and depth requirements are as
follows:
      A.   Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide and four
inches thick, and each section shall be no more than four feet in length.
      B.   Business District sidewalks shall extend from the property line to
the curb. Each section shall be four inches thick and no more than six feet in
length.
      C.   Driveway areas shall be not less than six inches in thickness.
   6.   Location. Residential sidewalks shall be located with the inner edge
(edge nearest the abutting private property) one foot from the property line,
unless the Council establishes a different distance due to special
circumstances.
   7.   Grade. Curb tops shall be on level with the centerline of the street,
which is the established grade.
   8.   Elevations. The street edge of a sidewalk shall be at an elevation even
with the curb at the curb or not less than one-half inch above the curb for
each foot between the curb and the sidewalk.
   9.   Slope. All sidewalks shall slope one-fourth inch per foot toward the
curb.
   10.   Finish. All sidewalks shall be finished with a broom finish or wood
float finish.
   11.   Curb Ramps and Sloped Areas for Persons with Disabilities. If a
street, road, or highway is newly built or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped
area shall be constructed or installed at each intersection of the street,
road, or highway with a sidewalk or path. If a sidewalk or path is newly built
or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped area shall be constructed or installed
at each intersection of the sidewalk or path with a street, highway, or road.
Curb ramps and sloped areas that are required pursuant to this subsection shall
be constructed or installed in compliance with applicable federal requirements
adopted in accordance with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act,
including (but not limited to) the guidelines issued by the Federal
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 216C.9)
136.11   BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
Whenever any material of any kind is deposited on any street, avenue, highway,
passageway or alley when sidewalk improvements are being made or when any
sidewalk is in a dangerous condition, it shall be the duty of all persons
having an interest therein, either as the contractor or the owner, agent, or
lessee of the property in front of or along which such material may be
deposited, or such dangerous condition exists, to put in conspicuous places at
each end of such sidewalk and at each end of any pile of material deposited in
the street, a sufficient number of approved warning lights or flares, and to
keep them lighted during the entire night and to erect sufficient barricades
both at night and in the daytime to secure the same. The party or parties using
the street for any of the purposes specified in this chapter shall be liable
for all injuries or damage to persons or property arising from any wrongful act
or negligence of the party or parties, or their agents or employees or for any
misuse of the privileges conferred by this chapter or of any failure to comply
with provisions hereof.
136.12   FAILURE TO REPAIR OR BARRICADE.
It is the duty of the owner of the property abutting the sidewalk, or the
owner’s contractor or agent, to notify the City immediately in the event of
failure or inability to make necessary sidewalk improvements or to install or
erect necessary barricades as required by this chapter.
136.13   INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
No person shall knowingly or willfully drive any vehicle upon any portion of
any sidewalk or approach thereto while in the process of being improved or upon
any portion of any completed sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove or
destroy any part or all of any sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove,
destroy, mar, or deface any sidewalk at any time or destroy, mar, remove, or
deface any notice provided by this chapter.
136.14   AWNINGS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any awning over any sidewalk
unless all parts of the awning are elevated at least eight feet above the
surface of the sidewalk and the roof or covering is made of duck, canvas or
other suitable material supported by iron frames or brackets securely fastened
to the building, without any posts or other device that will obstruct the
sidewalk or hinder or interfere with the free passage of pedestrians.
136.15   ENCROACHING STEPS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any stairs or steps to any
building upon any part of any sidewalk without permission by resolution of the
Council.
136.16   OPENINGS AND ENCLOSURES.
It is unlawful for a person to:
   1.   Stairs and Railings. Construct or build a stairway or passageway to any
cellar or basement by occupying any part of the sidewalk, or to enclose any
portion of a sidewalk with a railing without permission by resolution of the
Council.
   2.   Openings. Keep open any cellar door, grating, or cover to any vault on
any sidewalk except while in actual use with adequate guards to protect the
public.
   3.   Protect Openings. Neglect to properly protect or barricade all openings
on or within six feet of any sidewalk.
136.17   FIRES OR FUEL ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to make a fire of any kind on any sidewalk or to
place or allow any fuel to remain upon any sidewalk.
136.18   ENGRAVING IN SIDEWALK OR WRITING ON SIDEWALK.
   1.   It is unlawful for a person to engrave or place writing in or on a
sidewalk, except as follows:
      A.   A contractor or builder of a sidewalk may place his imprint giving
their identity in the sidewalk, provided that the imprint be placed along an
outside edge of a sidewalk, and that such imprint be no larger than one square
foot in area and no deeper than one-quarter inch.
      B.   An owner of adjoining property may place their name and date of
completion in the sidewalk, provided that such imprint be placed along an
outside edge of the sidewalk, and that such imprint be no larger than one
square foot in area and no deeper than one-quarter inch.
   2.   It is unlawful for a person to deface a public sidewalk by writing or
marking the sidewalk with paint or any other permanent material. However, City
officials shall be allowed to use paint or other permanent marking material to
identify portions of sidewalks needing repair, or to identify crosswalks or
walking areas, or to indicate activities prohibited on the sidewalk.
   3.   Any persons violating the provisions of this section shall be charged
with a municipal infraction.
136.19   DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to throw or deposit on any sidewalk any glass,
nails, glass bottle, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, offal,
or any other debris, or any substance likely to injure any person, animal, or
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
136.20   MERCHANDISE DISPLAY.
It is unlawful for a person to place upon or above any sidewalk, any goods or
merchandise for sale or for display in such a manner as to interfere with the
free and uninterrupted passage of pedestrians on the sidewalk; in no case shall
more than three feet of the sidewalk next to the building be occupied for such
purposes.
136.21   SALES STANDS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or keep any vending machine or stand for
the sale of fruit, vegetables or other substances or commodities on any
sidewalk without first obtaining a written permit from the Council.
CHAPTER 137
VACATION AND DISPOSAL OF STREETS
 
137.01 Power to Vacate                137.04 Findings Required
137.02 Planning and Zoning Commission 137.05 Disposal of Vacated Streets or
                                      Alleys
137.03 Notice of Vacation Hearing     137.06 Disposal by Gift Limited
 
137.01   POWER TO VACATE.
When, in the judgment of the Council, it would be in the best interest of the
City to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds, the
Council may do so by ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2a])
137.02   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
Any proposal to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds
shall be referred by the Council to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its
study and recommendation prior to further consideration by the Council. The
Commission shall submit a written report including recommendations to the
Council within 30 days after the date the proposed vacation is referred to the
Commission.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
137.03   NOTICE OF VACATION HEARING.
The Council shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing of the time
at which the proposal to vacate shall be considered.
137.04   FINDINGS REQUIRED.
No street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds shall be vacated
unless the Council finds that:
   1.   Public Use. The street, alley, portion thereof, or any public ground
proposed to be vacated is not needed for the use of the public, and therefore,
its maintenance at public expense is no longer justified.
   2.   Abutting Property. The proposed vacation will not deny owners of
property abutting on the street or alley reasonable access to their property.
137.05   DISPOSAL OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS.
When in the judgment of the Council it would be in the best interest of the
City to dispose of a vacated street or alley, portion thereof or public ground,
the Council may do so in accordance with the provisions of Section 364.7, Code
of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7)
137.06   DISPOSAL BY GIFT LIMITED.
The City may not dispose of real property by gift except to a governmental body
for a public purpose or to a fair.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 174.15[2] and 364.7[3])
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys or public grounds
and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys or public grounds
and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO.   ADOPTED            ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
25              December 1, 1873
70              March 30, 1883
263             September 4, 1953
281             October 3, 1958
319 (REPEALED)* November 3, 1966
328             June 6, 1968
372             September 16, 1976
391             April 13, 1981
393             July 13, 1981
419             June 13, 1988
423             December 12, 1988
452             August 24, 1992
458             August 23, 1993
499-96          December 9, 1996
551-00          October 23, 2000
555-01          February 26, 2001
568-02          February 11, 2002
607-05          May 23, 2005
*Ordinance No. 319, adopted November 3, 1966, was repealed by Ordinance No.
620-06, adopted January 23, 2006. A portion of Mott Street is reestablished
as a public street in the City
 
CHAPTER 138
STREET GRADES
 
138.01 Purpose and Definition 138.03 Record Maintained
138.02 Established Grades
 
138.01   PURPOSE AND DEFINITION.
This chapter is designed to meet the requirements of the Code of Iowa for the
establishment of street grades. As used herein, “grade” means the longitudinal
reference lines, as established by ordinance of the Council, which designate
the elevation at which a street or sidewalk is to be built.
138.02   ESTABLISHED GRADES.
The grades of all streets, alleys, and sidewalks, which have been heretofore
established by ordinance, are hereby confirmed, ratified, and established as
official grades.
138.03   RECORD MAINTAINED.
The Clerk shall maintain a record of all established grades and furnish
information concerning such grades upon request.
 
EDITOR’S NOTE 
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street or sidewalk grades and remain
in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED           ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
130           February 1, 1907
225           January 22, 1926
236           November 17, 1938
249           February 11, 1948
295A          July 7, 1961
304           July 6, 1964
324           March 7, 1968
326           May 20, 1968
363           March 31, 1975
365           April 24 1975
378           March 14, 1978
386           April 14, 1980
387           October 13, 1980
414           September 8, 1986
 
CHAPTER 139
NAMING OF STREETS
 
139.01 Naming New Streets      139.04 Official Street Name Map
139.02 Changing Name of Street 139.05 Revision of Street Name Map
139.03 Recording Street Names
 
139.01   NAMING NEW STREETS.
New streets shall be assigned names in accordance with the following:
   1.   Extension of Existing Street. Streets added to the City that are
natural extensions of existing streets shall be assigned the name of the
existing street.
   2.   Resolution. All street names, except streets named as a part of a
subdivision or platting procedure, shall be named by resolution.
   3.   Planning and Zoning Commission. Proposed street names shall be referred
to the Planning and Zoning Commission for review and recommendation.
139.02   CHANGING NAME OF STREET.
The Council may, by resolution, change the name of a street.
139.03   RECORDING STREET NAMES.
Following official action naming or changing the name of a street, the Clerk
shall file a copy thereof with the County Recorder, County Auditor and County
Assessor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.26)
139.04   OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP.
Streets within the City are named as shown on the Official Street Name Map,
which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
The Official Street Name Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor,
and bearing the seal of the City under the following words: “This is to certify
that this is the Official Street Name Map referred to in Section
139.04 of the Code of Ordinances of Postville, Iowa.”
139.05   REVISION OF STREET NAME MAP.
If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in
street names, such changes shall be entered on the Official Street Name Map
promptly after the change has been approved by the Council with an entry on the
Official Street Name Map as follows: “On (date), by official action of the City
Council, the following changes were made in the Official Street Name Map:
(brief description),” which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by
the Clerk.
CHAPTER 140
CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES
 
140.01 Exercise of Police Power 140.04 Access Controls Imposed
140.02 Definition               140.05 Permitted Access Points
140.03 Right of Access Limited  140.06 Parking Restricted
 
140.01   EXERCISE OF POLICE POWER.
This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of the City under
Chapter 306A, Code of Iowa, for the preservation of the public peace, health,
and safety and for the promotion of the general welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.1)
140.02   DEFINITION.
The term “controlled access facility” means a highway or street especially
designed for through traffic, and over, from or to which owners or occupants of
abutting land or other persons have no right or easement or only a controlled
right or easement of access, light, air, or view by reason of the fact that
their property abuts upon such controlled access facility or for any other
reason.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.2)
140.03   RIGHT OF ACCESS LIMITED.
No person has any right of ingress or egress to or from abutting lands onto or
across any controlled access facility, except at such designated points at
which access is permitted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.4)
140.04   ACCESS CONTROLS IMPOSED.
There are hereby fixed and established controlled access facilities within the
City, described as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.3)
   1.   Project No. F-166 and F-543. On the Primary Road System extension
improvement, Project No. F-166 and F-543, Primary Roads No. U.S. 18 and 52 and
Iowa No. 1, within the City, described as follows:
On Tilden Street, from the west corporation line east approximately 2,690 feet
to the intersection of Lawler Street and Tilden Street, thence south on Lawler
Street approximately 710 feet to the intersection of Lawler Street and Military
Road, thence southeasterly on Military Road approximately 1,720 feet to the
south corporation line;
On Lawler Street, from the intersection of Tilden Street and Lawler Street
north to the north corporation line,
regulating access to and from abutting properties along said highway all in
accordance with the plans for such improvement identified as Project No. F-166
and F-543, on file in the office of the Clerk.
2.   Project No. P-1117. On the Primary Road System extension improvement,
Project No. P-1117, Primary Roads No. U.S. 18, U.S. 52, and Iowa 51, within the
City, described as follows:
Beginning at Station 117 + 08, a point 103 feet north of the intersection of
Military Road and Lawler Street, thence north approximately 1,356 feet to
Station 130 + 64, the junction of Lawler Street and Greene Street,
regulating access to and from abutting properties along said highway all in
accordance with the plans for such improvement identified as Project No. P-
1117, on file in the office of the Clerk.
   3.   Project No. FN-863. On the Primary Road System extension improvement,
Project No. FN-863, Primary Road No. U.S. 18, within the City, described as
follows:
On Tilden Street, from Sta. 903 + 12 (the west corporation line) east to Lawler
Street for a distance of approximately 2,674.5 feet;
The parts of Primary Road No. U.S. 18 as may be included within any future
extension of the corporation limits of the City,
regulating access to and from abutting properties along said highway all in
accordance with the plans for such improvement identified as Project No. FN-
863, on file in the office of the Clerk.
140.05   PERMITTED ACCESS POINTS.
Points of access are hereby permitted as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.4)
   1.   Project No. FN-166. The compiled list furnished by the Iowa Highway
Commission of drives and entrances provided for access under the improvement
specified as Project No. FN-166 is hereby recorded as follows:
STATION SIDE OF STREET WIDTH
STATION SIDE OF STREET WIDTH
106+27  Left side      18 feet
108+25  Left side      18 feet
109+35  Left side      18 feet
110+50  Left side      20 feet
111+78  Left side      2 drives
111+90  Left side      30 feet
113+31  Left Side      20 feet
103+15  Right Side     26 feet
108+80  Right Side     18 feet
109+70  Right Side     18 feet
111+15  Right Side     18 feet
 
   2.   Project No. FN-543. The compiled list furnished by the Iowa Highway
Commission of drives and entrances provided for access under the improvement
specified as Project No. FN-543 is hereby recorded as follows:
STATION SIDE OF STREET WIDTH
STATION     SIDE OF STREET WIDTH
92+95       Left side      24 feet
93+50       Left side      24 feet
95+50       Left side      30 feet
96+20 Alley Left side      26 feet
101+11      Left Side      18 Feet
95+40       Right Side     32 feet
98+70       Right Side     18 feet
99+42       Right Side     18 feet
99+68       Right Side     18 feet
 
140.06   PARKING RESTRICTED.
The parking of vehicles on or along controlled access facilities is restricted
as follows:
   1.   Minor Street Approaches. Parking shall be prohibited on all minor
street approaches for a distance of 35 feet in advance of the stop sign.
   2.   Minor Street Exits. Parking shall be prohibited on the exit side of a
minor street for a distance of 35 feet.
   3.   Diagonal Parking on Minor Street. Where diagonal parking is permitted,
on the minor street approach, parking shall be restricted so that a 55-foot
stop sign distance is maintained.
   4.   Intersection. Parking shall be prohibited on the Primary Road
Extensions a distance of 55 feet in advance of the near crosswalk and a
distance of 22 feet beyond the far crosswalk.
CHAPTER 141
RURAL DELIVERY MAILBOXES
 
141.01 Type of Mailbox       141.03 Maintenance of Approaches
141.02 Location of Mailboxes 141.04 Nonconforming Existing Mailboxes
 
141.01   TYPE OF MAILBOX.
All mailboxes placed upon the City streets and right-of-ways shall be of a
Quonset type, number one sized box as approved by the U.S. Department of Postal
Service regulations, or cluster box unit (“CBU”) installed by the United States
Postal Service.
141.02   LOCATION OF MAILBOXES.
All mailboxes meeting the above specifications shall be set in clusters of at
least two and not more than 10 boxes per location. Boxes shall not be set
closer than 25 feet to an intersection; said intersection shall be determined
by measuring 25 feet from the middle of the intersecting street down the street
the mailboxes are to be placed upon. Mailboxes shall not be placed closer than
10 feet from any alley or driveway approach. Mailboxes meeting the above
specifications may be placed in the street right-of-way provided that the
support thereof shall be at least two feet behind the curb or edge of the
traveled way and no portion of the box or support shall extend into the
traveled way. Said boxes shall not obstruct a paved sidewalk for pedestrians
and where the roadway has a shoulder to be maintained, said boxes and support
shall be placed so as not to interfere with the road maintenance or snow
removal.
141.03   MAINTENANCE OF APPROACHES.
All approaches to the mailboxes shall be maintained by the individual owners of
the boxes at said approach and the City shall not be responsible for surfacing,
grading, or maintaining said approaches.
   1.   Any person who maintains a mailbox, delivery receptacle, or other
structure upon the public way covenants and agrees to indemnify and hold
harmless the City in regard to any claim arising out of the location and
maintenance of the mailbox or other structure.
   2.   The property owner hereby acknowledges that structures placed upon the
public way adjacent to the traveled portion may be subject to damage or
destruction during snow removal or maintenance operations and therefore the
property owner who places or maintains a mailbox or other structure upon any
portion of the public way covenants and agrees that the City shall have no
liability in the event of the damage or destruction of the property owner’s
property which has been placed on the public way, and the property owner
assumes all risk of loss or damage because of such placement.
   3.   If snow removal near a mailbox cannot be satisfactorily accomplished by
the City during snow removal operations, it shall be the responsibility of the
property owner to remove the snow obstruction.
141.04   NONCONFORMING EXISTING MAILBOXES.
All existing mailboxes in the City at the time of the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this chapter (August 6, 1997) will not be affected by
this chapter and shall be allowed to remain in place. A mailbox installed after
said effective date must meet the requirements and specifications of this
chapter unless the residence is already on an established door-to-door
delivery.
CHAPTER 145
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
 
145.01 Enforcement Officer          145.05 Conduct of Hearing
145.02 General Definition of Unsafe 145.06 Posting of Signs
145.03 Unsafe Building              145.07 Right to Demolish; Municipal
                                    Infraction
145.04 Notice to Owner              145.08 Costs
 
145.01   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
The Clerk or Administrator is responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
145.02   GENERAL DEFINITION OF UNSAFE.
All buildings or structures that are structurally unsafe or not provided with
adequate egress, or that constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous
to human life, or that in relation to existing use constitute a hazard to
safety or health, or public welfare, by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, obsolescence, or abandonment, are, for the purpose of this
chapter, unsafe buildings. All such unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be
public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or
removal in accordance with the procedure specified in this chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657A.1 and 364.12[3a])
145.03   UNSAFE BUILDING.
“Unsafe building” means any structure or mobile home meeting any or all of the
following criteria:
   1.   Various Inadequacies. Whenever the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, because of:
      A.   Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay;
      B.   Faulty construction;
      C.   The removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the ground
necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
      D.   The deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or
      E.   Any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse.
   2.   Manifestly Unsafe. Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure,
or any portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is
being used.
   3.   Inadequate Maintenance. Whenever a building or structure, used or
intended to be used for dwelling purposes, because of dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction, or otherwise, is determined by any health officer
to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such condition that it is
likely to cause sickness or disease.
   4.   Fire Hazard. Whenever any building or structure, because of dilapidated
condition, deterioration, damage, or other cause, is determined by the Fire
Marshal or Fire Chief to be a fire hazard.
   5.   Abandoned. Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
145.04   NOTICE TO OWNER.
The enforcement officer shall examine or cause to be examined every building or
structure or portion thereof reported as dangerous or damaged and, if such is
found to be an unsafe building as defined in this chapter, the enforcement
officer shall give to the owner of such building or structure written notice
stating the defects thereof. This notice may require the owner or person in
charge of the building or premises, within 48 hours or such reasonable time as
the circumstances require, to commence either the required repairs or
improvements or demolition and removal of the building or structure or portions
thereof, and all such work shall be completed within 90 days from date of
notice, unless otherwise stipulated by the enforcement officer. If necessary,
such notice shall also require the building, structure, or portion thereof to
be vacated forthwith and not reoccupied until the required repairs and
improvements are completed, inspected, and approved by the enforcement officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   1.   Notice Served. Such notice shall be served by sending by certified mail
to the owner of record, according to Section 364.12[3h] of the Code of Iowa, if
the owner is found within the City limits. If the owner is not found within the
City limits, such service may be made upon the owner by registered mail or
certified mail. The designated period within which said owner or person in
charge is required to comply with the order of the enforcement officer shall
begin as of the date the owner receives such notice.
   2.   Hearing. Such notice shall also advise the owner that he or she may
request a hearing before the Council on the notice by filing a written request
for hearing within the time provided in the notice.
145.05   CONDUCT OF HEARING.
If requested, the Council shall conduct a hearing in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Notice. The owner shall be served with written notice specifying the
date, time and place of hearing.
   2.   Owner’s Rights. At the hearing, the owner may appear and show cause why
the alleged nuisance shall not be abated.
   3.   Determination. The Council shall make and record findings of fact and
may issue such order as it deems appropriate.† 11
 
Notes
   † EDITOR’S NOTE: Suggested forms of notice and of a resolution and order of the
   Council for the administration of this chapter are provided in the APPENDIX to
11 this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use of this procedure. We
   recommend you review the situation with your attorney before initiating
   procedures and follow his or her recommendation carefully.
145.06   POSTING OF SIGNS.
The enforcement officer shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such
building a notice to read:
“DO NOT ENTER.
UNSAFE TO OCCUPY.
CITY OF POSTVILLE, IOWA.”
Such notice shall remain posted until the required demolition, removal or
repairs are completed. Such notice shall not be removed without written
permission of the enforcement officer and no person shall enter the building
except for the purpose of making the required repairs or of demolishing the
building.
145.07   RIGHT TO DEMOLISH; MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
In case the owner fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with the notice to
repair, rehabilitate, or to demolish and remove the building or structure or
portion thereof, the Council may order the owner of the building prosecuted as
a violator of the provisions of this chapter and may order the enforcement
officer to proceed with the work specified in such notice. A statement of the
cost of such work shall be transmitted to the Council. As an alternative to
this action, the City may utilize the municipal infraction process to abate the
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
145.08   COSTS.
Costs incurred under Section
145.07 shall be paid out of the City treasury. Such costs shall be charged to
the owner of the premises involved and levied as a special assessment against
the land on which the building or structure is located, and shall be certified
to the County Treasurer for collection in the manner provided for other taxes.
In addition, the City may take any other action deemed appropriate to recover
costs incurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
CHAPTER 150
BUILDING NUMBERING
 
150.01 Definitions        150.03 Building Numbering Plan
150.02 Owner Requirements
 
150.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Owner” means the owner of the principal building.
   2.   “Principal building” means the main building on any lot or subdivision
thereof.
150.02   OWNER REQUIREMENTS.
Every owner shall comply with the following numbering requirements:
   1.   Obtain Building Number. The owner shall obtain the assigned number to
the principal building from the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
   2.   Display Building Number. The owner shall place or cause to be installed
and maintained on the principal building the assigned number in a conspicuous
place to the street in figures not less than two and one-half inches in height
and of a contrasting color with their background.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
   3.   Failure to Comply. If an owner refuses to number a building as herein
provided or fails to do so for a period of 30 days after being notified in
writing by the City to do so, the City may proceed to place the assigned number
on the principal building and assess the costs against the property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
150.03   BUILDING NUMBERING PLAN.
Building numbers shall be assigned in accordance with the building numbering
plan on file in the office of the Clerk.
CHAPTER 151
TREES AND GRASS
 
151.01 Definition                      151.08 Authority for Enforcement
151.02 Planting Restrictions           151.09 Interference with Public Official
151.03 Duty to Trim Trees              151.10 Nuisances
151.04 Trimming Trees to be Supervised 151.12 Enforcement
151.05 Disease Control                 151.12 Emergency Control Measures
151.06 Inspection and Removal          151.13 Control of Weeds or Other
                                       Vegetation
151.07 Rules for Removal               151.14 Habitual Violators
 
151.01   DEFINITION.
For the purposes of this chapter, the following items, phrases, words, and
their derivations have the meanings given herein.
   1.   “Boulevard” means that part of the street, avenue or highway in the
City not covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and curb line; on
unpaved streets, the boulevard is that part of the street, avenue, or highway
lying between the lot lines and that portion of the street usually traveled by
vehicular traffic.
   2.   “Noxious weeds” means primary and secondary classes of weeds as defined
by the Code of Iowa, and all additions to this list as so declared by the State
Secretary of Agriculture.
   3.   “Public official” means the person designated by the Mayor or Clerk to
enforce this chapter.
   4.   “Right-of-way” means the entire width of a platted street or alley in
use or undeveloped.
   5.   “Weed(s)” means any plants growing uncultivated and out of context with
the surrounding plant life when such plant has a seed head formed or forming
and with a height of four inches or more, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter.
151.02   PLANTING RESTRICTIONS.
No tree shall be planted in any parking or street except in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Alignment. All trees planted in any street shall be planted in the
boulevard midway between the outer line of the sidewalk and the curb. In the
event a curb line is not established, trees shall be planted on a line 10 feet
from the property line.
   2.   Spacing. Trees shall not be planted on any boulevard that is less than
nine feet in width or contains less than 81 square feet of exposed soil surface
per tree. Trees shall not be planted closer than 20 feet from street
intersections (property lines extended) and 10 feet from driveways. If it is at
all possible, trees should be planted inside the property lines and not between
the sidewalk and the curb.
   3.   Prohibited Trees. No person shall plant in any street any fruit-bearing
tree or any tree of the kinds commonly known as cottonwood, poplar, box elder,
Chinese elm, evergreen, willow, or black walnut.
151.03   DUTY TO TRIM TREES.
The owner or agent of the abutting property shall keep the trees on, or
overhanging the street, trimmed so that all branches will be at least 18 feet
above the surface of the street, 20 feet above the surface of the primary
highway, and eight feet above the sidewalks. If the abutting property owner
fails to trim the trees, the City may serve notice on the abutting property
owner requiring that such action be taken within five days. If such action is
not taken within that time, the City may perform the required action and assess
the costs against the abutting property for collection in the same manner as a
property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c and e])
151.04   TRIMMING TREES TO BE SUPERVISED.
Except as allowed in Section
151.03, it is unlawful for any person to trim or cut any tree in a street or
public place unless the work is done under the supervision of the City.
151.05   DISEASE CONTROL.
Any dead, diseased, or damaged tree or shrub that may harbor serious insect or
disease pests or disease injurious to other trees is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
151.06   INSPECTION AND REMOVAL.
The Council shall inspect or cause to be inspected any trees or shrubs in the
City reported or suspected to be dead, diseased or damaged, and such trees and
shrubs shall be subject to the following:
   1.   City Property. If it is determined that any such condition exists on
any public property, including the strip between the curb and the lot line of
private property, the Council may cause such condition to be corrected by
treatment or removal. The Council may also order the removal of any trees on
the streets of the City which interfere with the making of improvements or with
travel thereon. In no case shall the property owner be required to remove
diseased trees or dead wood on the publicly owned property or right-of-way.
   2.   Private Property. If it is determined with reasonable certainty that
any such condition exists on private property and that danger to other trees or
to adjoining property or passing motorists or pedestrians is imminent, the
Council shall notify by certified mail the owner, occupant or person in charge
of such property to correct such condition by treatment or removal within 14
days of said notification. If such owner, occupant, or person in charge of said
property fails to comply within 14 days of receipt of notice, the Council may
cause the condition to be corrected and the cost assessed against the property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2)(c), (3)(b), and (3)(h))
151.07   RULES FOR REMOVAL.
All weeds, vines, brush, or other growth which constitute a health, safety or
fire hazard shall be cut or destroyed by the property owners when and as needed
(as determined by the Council or its authorized representative, if the property
owner fails to do so), but in any event at least once by May 1 of each year and
thereafter by no later than the first day of each succeeding month through and
including October 1 of each year.
151.08   AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
The Mayor or Clerk or any person designated by the Mayor or Clerk is
responsible for enforcement of this chapter and shall have all the necessary
authority to carry out the enforcement of this chapter.
151.09   INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC OFFICIAL.
No persons shall interfere with the Mayor, Clerk, or designee or any appointed
assistant while engaged in the enforcement of this chapter.
151.10   NUISANCES.
Except as provided elsewhere in this chapter, the following provisions shall
apply:
   1.   Each owner and each person in the possession or control of any land
shall cut or otherwise destroy, in whatever manner prescribed by the Public
Official, all noxious weeds, weeds, vines, brush or other growth constituting a
health, fire or safety hazard thereon and shall keep said lands free of such
growth.
   2.   Each owner and each person in possession or control of any property
shall be responsible to keep said lot, including along with boulevard adjacent
thereto, alleys, public ways, or areas up to the centerline of said ways free
of any noxious weeds and to keep grasses and weeds on said lot mowed so that
grass and weeds are less than four inches in height. However, grass and weeds
located on undeveloped and unplatted property located more than 100 feet from
developed or platted property shall be mowed so that grass and weeds are less
than 12 inches in height.
   3.   Each owner and each person in the possession or control of any lands
shall not allow any plant growth of any sort to remain in such a manner as to
render the streets, alleys or public ways adjoining said land unsafe for public
travel or in any manner so as to impede pedestrian or vehicular traffic upon
any public place or way.
   4.   Where waterways or watercourses are found upon any developed or
undeveloped lot, the owner or person in possession or control shall keep the
flat or level part of the bank of said waterway free of any weeds and grasses
more than 18 inches in height. Should such waterways or watercourses be found
within the right-of-way of a street or alley, the adjacent property owner or
person in possession or control shall be responsible to keep the flat or
accessible portion of creek bank free of any weeds or grasses more than 18
inches in height.
   5.   No owner or person in possession or control of any developed or
undeveloped lot shall allow plant growth or the accumulation of plant materials
on such lot to remain in such a state so as to constitute a fire hazard. In no
instance shall cut plant material accumulations be located within 150 feet of a
building, structure, recreation area (not including the width of any
intervening street) or within 125 feet of a street right-of-way.
151.11   ENFORCEMENT.
The Mayor, Clerk, or designee may inspect all areas alleged to be in violation
and, in the case of a founded violation, notify the last known owner or person
in possession (or control) of the area of violation of this chapter. Said
notice shall be by posting notice upon the entrance to the structure on the
property or by certified mail and allow 48 hours for posted notice, or 72 hours
for mailed notice after mailing said notice as a period of time to eliminate
said violations. Return receipt with signature is not required for said mailed
notice. The Mayor, Clerk, or designee shall charge an administrative fee in the
amount of $50.00 for each founded violation. Upon failure of the owner or
person in possession or control to act within the prescribed time period, the
City may perform the required action and assess costs against the property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax. In the event such action is
taken, the Mayor, Clerk, or designee may obtain competitive quotes to have the
required action performed. If no quotes are obtained, the City may have the
City personnel perform the required action at rates which shall be established
by resolution of the Council from time to time, which rates shall constitute
costs to be assessed against the property as provided herein. In addition to
the foregoing remedy and other remedies by law, the Mayor, Clerk, or designee
may file misdemeanor charges against such individuals or municipal infractions.
151.12   EMERGENCY CONTROL MEASURES.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, whenever in the judgment
of the Mayor, Clerk, or designee an emergency exists creating a health, safety
or fire hazard which may require weed or grass control without prior notice,
control measures shall be taken and costs assessed against the property for
collection in the same manner as property tax. However, prior to such
assessment, the City shall give the property owner notice by certified mail and
an opportunity for a hearing before the Council.
151.13   CONTROL OF WEEDS OR OTHER VEGETATION.
The Clerk shall annually on or before May 1 through August 1 of each year
publish a Notice to Property Owners generally setting forth the duty to control
weeds and other vegetation which might be a nuisance in violation of this Code
of Ordinances. The Mayor, Clerk, or designee may cause a Notice to Abate
Nuisance to be served upon any property owner who fails to comply with the
published notice or any person who at any other time has weeds or other
vegetation in violation of this Code of Ordinances and shall submit the cost to
the Council for assessment as provided in Section 364.12 of the Code of Iowa.
In the event of an emergency as set forth in Section 364.12 of the Code of
Iowa, the notice requirement may be dispensed with. In abating a nuisance under
this Code of Ordinances, the Mayor, Clerk, or designee are hereby authorized
and directed to employ such persons and rent any and all equipment necessary
for the abatement of the nuisance and the costs thereof shall be assessed.
151.14   HABITUTAL VIOLATORS.
If the owner or person in control of any land has previously received a notice
to abate nuisance relating to weeds or grass within the preceding 24 months,
then the notice to abate nuisance may include notice that such owner or person
in control of said property will be considered to be a habitual violator of
this chapter and that if the nuisance is not abated within the allowed time,
the City will consider the property to be subject to having a contract let by
the City for mowing property as needed up to a weekly basis for the next
following 24-month period of time and that the full cost of said contract
together with an administrative fee of $250.00 will be assessed against the
property.
CHAPTER 152
CONTROL OF THE USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY AND RIGHT-OF-WAY
152.01 Purpose                        152.09 City Construction and Paving
152.02 Franchise, License, or Lease   152.10 Design Notice to City
Required
152.03 Fees Required                  152.11 Above-Ground Cables, Wires,
                                      Conduits, and Poles
152.04 Limit on Term                  152.12 Assignment
152.05 Placement of Facilities        152.13 Forfeiture
152.06 Indemnification and Insurance  152.14 Application
152.07 Regulation by the City         152.15 Removal of Material; Bond Required
152.08 Construction and Excavation by
Holders of A Franchise, License, or   152.16 Home Rule
Lease
                                      152.17 New Technologies
 
152.01   PURPOSE.
The Council finds it is necessary to establish uniform rules and controls to
ensure public safety and provide efficient delivery of services by the City and
others wishing to utilize streets and the public property for the delivery of
utility or other services, in order to protect public and private investment,
ensure orderly use of public property and ensure the health, safety and welfare
of the population, to provide for the regulation and administration of the
public streets and the public property and secure the rights of the City to a
return on its investment in public property. This chapter is to be interpreted
in light of these findings for the benefit of the public and users of the
streets and other public property.
152.02   FRANCHISE, LICENSE, OR LEASE REQUIRED.
No person or other entity shall use the public right-of-way or other public
property without first obtaining a franchise, license, or lease from the City.
All persons who seek to maintain or erect a system for the delivery of electric
light or power, cable television, waterworks, gasworks, or public transit shall
first obtain a franchise as herein required; all other persons shall obtain a
license or lease. The City shall not enter into or issue any franchise, license
or lease that grants exclusive rights. All licenses or leases required by this
section shall be granted by the Council.
152.03   FEES REQUIRED.
No franchise, license, or lease for the use of public right-of-way or other
public property shall be granted without requiring the grantee thereof to pay a
reasonable and competitively neutral fee for the use of public right-of-way or
other public property. The fees will be as follows:
   1.   All new franchises shall be assessed a franchise fee of up to five
percent of the gross revenues received by the holder of the franchise from its
operations within the City limits.
   2.   To the extent allowed by law a license or lease fee will be assessed on
all licenses or leases for the use of space in the right-of-way. This license
or lease fee is a fee based on the term of the license or lease. Payment in
full is due when the license or lease is granted, however a mutually agreeable
payment schedule may be entered into between the City and the licensee or
lessee. If the license or lease is renewed, a new license or lease fee will be
assessed based on the term of the renewal. The fee to be paid shall be as
follows:
      A.   A person or an entity whose end use is solely dedicated to a
governmental use, including education, shall pay a fee based on an annual fee
of $0.13 per linear foot of right-of-way used.
      B.   A person or an entity shall pay a fee based on an annual fee of
$0.45 per linear foot of right-of-way used in residential areas as shown on the
official right-of-way access map.
      C.   A person or an entity shall pay a fee based on an annual fee of
$2.11 per linear foot of right-of-way used in commercial areas as shown on the
official right-of-way map.
   3.   In addition to the license or lease fee, an annual right-of-way
management fee covering the management costs the City incurs in connection with
managing the right-of-way will be assessed each year that the license or lease
is in force. Each entity or person shall pay an annual fee of $0.03 per linear
foot of right-of-way used. Payment shall be made within 30 days after the
beginning of each year the license or lease is in force.
   4.   In addition to the license or lease fee and annual management fee, any
person or other entity shall pay a fee every time their facility requires
excavation in the right-of-way. This fee will cover costs for street
degradation and replacement, inspection, and obstruction and routing of
pedestrian and vehicle traffic. The fee to be paid for each cut into the street
will be based on a degradation fee schedule maintained by the Clerk or
Administrator. All or part of this fee may be waived if work is done in
conjunction with City construction. In addition, no fee will be charged if
lateral boring is done and there is no cut into the street.
152.04   LIMIT ON TERM.
No franchise, license, or lease for use of the public right-of-way or other
public property shall be granted for a term of more than 10 years.
152.05   PLACEMENT OF FACILITIES.
The facilities, fixtures, and equipment for the distribution, transmission, or
sale of any utility services, or services provided under a license or lease,
shall be placed and maintained so as not to unnecessarily or unreasonably
interfere with the travel on the streets, highways, avenues, alleys, bridges,
and public places in the City, nor shall such facilities, fixtures and
equipment interfere with the proper use of the same including, but not limited
to, ordinary drainage, or the functioning of the sewers, underground pipe or
other property of the City. In the event that facilities, fixtures, and
equipment of any person or other entity located within a public right-of-way
must be relocated because of paving, road construction or road reconstruction,
sewer construction or sewer reconstruction, or the construction or
reconstruction of public drainage systems or similar public works or the
construction or reconstruction of the facilities of any City-owned utility,
such relocation, at the written request of the City, shall be completed by the
owner of such facilities at the owner’s cost. The City shall, upon request of
any person or other entity holding a franchise, license or lease, review any
plans for the construction of facilities, fixtures, and equipment within the
public right-of-way and advise the person or other entity of any conflict such
construction may have with planned or anticipated public improvements, but
failure of the City to so advise such person or other entity will not relieve
the owner of such facilities of its obligations under this chapter.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Clerk or Administrator may require placement
of equipment or facilities belonging to any holder of a franchise, license or
lease be limited to locations designated by the Clerk or Administrator to be
necessary to protect the integrity of use of present and future users of the
public right-of-way or other public property.
152.06   INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE.
The holder of any franchise, license, or lease shall indemnify and hold the
City harmless at all times during the term of the franchise, license, or lease
from and against all claims for injury or damage to any person or property,
including payments under worker’s compensation laws, caused by the
construction, erection, operation, or maintenance of its facilities, fixtures,
or equipment, or the negligence of its contractors or its employees. In case of
any suit or action at law being commenced against the City, upon any claim for
damage arising out of any loss, injury, or damage claimed to have been caused
by any installation, improvement, obstruction or excavation made or left in,
under or upon such street, sidewalk, alley or public place by the holder of a
franchise, license or lease, its agents, contractors or employees, upon being
notified in writing by the City of such action or proceeding, the holder of
said franchise, license or lease shall appear and make proper defense thereto
at the expense of the holder of the franchise, license or lease; and if any
judgment or decree shall in any such case be rendered against the City therein,
the holder of said franchise, license or lease shall assume, pay and satisfy
such judgment or decree, with the costs thereof. Immediately upon issuance of
the franchise, license or lease, the holder of the franchise, license or lease
shall purchase general liability insurance. The amount of insurance shall be a
minimum of $1,000,000.00 with a maximum deductible of $5,000.00. The holder of
the franchise, license or lease shall file with the Clerk a certificate of
insurance which clearly discloses on its face coverage in conformity with these
requirements. Upon request of the City, the holder of the franchise, license or
lease shall at its cost submit to the City a certified copy of the policy.
152.07   REGULATION BY THE CITY.
The City reserves the right to make reasonable general regulations for the use
of streets and other public property which unless otherwise specifically
provided shall apply to any holder of a franchise, license, or lease.
152.08   CONSTRUCTION AND EXCAVATION BY HOLDERS OF A FRANCHISE, LICENSE, OR
LEASE.
A written permit shall be obtained from the Clerk or Administrator whenever it
becomes necessary for the holder of any franchise, license, or lease to
excavate in streets or public grounds of the City. Such permits shall state a
particular part or point of the street where the excavation is to be made and
the length of time in which such permit shall authorize the work to be done. An
exception to a requirement for a permit shall be made in cases of emergency
involving public safety, in which case a permit will be obtained at the
earliest opportunity after the work has started. In making excavations in the
streets, the holder of any franchise, license or lease shall proceed with such
work as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the public. The holder of
any franchise, license, or lease shall properly protect, according to safety
standards generally accepted at the time of placement, as may be determined
from time to time by the Clerk or Administrator, all excavations, and
obstructions by proper placement of shoring, surface plates, barricades,
warning lights and such other or additional devises as circumstances may
warrant. If in the opinion of the Clerk or Administrator such excavation or
obstruction is not properly and safely protected, the Clerk or Administrator
shall notify such holder of a franchise, license, or lease who shall
immediately comply with such reasonable instructions. Immediately after use,
any trenches for excavations which the holder of a franchise, license, or lease
has opened shall be filled. However, no trench or excavation in the streets
shall be filled or covered without giving the City the right to inspect the
same. All backfilling in the streets will be according to City specifications.
Temporary street surfacing will be placed in such excavations as soon as the
same have been backfilled. Pavements, sidewalks, curbs, and gutters or other
portions of streets and public places opened, disturbed, or damaged shall be
promptly restored and replaced with like materials at the expense of the holder
of a franchise, license, or lease and left in as good condition as before the
opening, disturbance or damage occurred. In the event like replacement
materials are not available, the holder of the franchise, license, or lease
shall notify the Clerk or Administrator, who must approve the use of any
alternate materials. In the event that the holder of a franchise, license, or
lease fails to comply with the provisions of this section, after having been
given reasonable notice, the City may do such work as may be needed to properly
repair such pavements, sidewalks, curbs, and gutters or other portions of
streets and public places and the cost thereof shall be repaid to the City by
the holder of the franchise, license, or lease. In cases where a cut or
disturbance is made in a section of street paving or sidewalks, but causes
greater disturbance than to just the area cut, rather than replace only the
area cut, the holder of a franchise, license, or lease shall replace that area
as may be ordered by the Clerk or Administrator, which in no event shall exceed
the panel or panels disturbed.
152.09   CITY CONSTRUCTION AND PAVING.
Whenever the City shall pave or repave any street or shall change the grade
line of any street or public place or shall construct or reconstruct any
conduit, water main service or water connection, sewer or other City-owned
public works or City-owned utility, it shall be the duty of the holder of any
franchise, license, or lease, when so ordered by the City, to relocate its
service lines and other property in the streets or other public places at its
own expense so as to conform to the established grade or line of such street or
public place and so as not to interfere with the public improvements so
contracted or reconstructed. In the case of other public improvements
including, but not limited to, urban renewal projects, the City may require the
holder of a franchise, license, or lease to relocate its poles, service lines,
and appurtenances in the streets at the owner’s expense. The City may at its
discretion assign personnel for inspection of excavation and related work being
performed by the holder of a franchise, license, or lease. Should the holder of
the franchise, , or lease fail or refuse to do and perform the things provided
in this section, the City may, after reasonable notice, perform the work and
charge the expense thereof to the holder of the franchise, license, or lease
and the holder of the franchise, license or lease shall promptly pay said
charges.
152.10   DESIGN NOTICE TO CITY.
The holder of a franchise, license, or lease shall promptly, upon request,
furnish the Clerk or Administrator a detailed map or maps of its facilities
both within the City limits and the area within two miles surrounding the City
unless that area is within another City. The holder of a franchise, license, or
lease shall thereafter update the map or maps at least annually or upon
request, showing all subsequent additions or deletions to the distribution
system. Prior to any excavation by the City or its agents, a representative
must contact the holder of any franchise, license, or lease regarding current
information on the location of underground lines or facilities in the area
concerned. The obligations to contact the holder of a franchise, license or
lease under this section shall be satisfied if contact is made with a
corporation organized pursuant to Chapter 480 of the Code of Iowa or an entity
with a similar function utilized by both the City and the company, currently
the Iowa One Call System.
152.11   ABOVE-GROUND CABLES, WIRES, CONDUITS, AND POLES.
All cables, wires, and conduits shall be placed underground except where above-
ground connection to buildings or other locations above ground is reasonably
necessary. Such above-ground connection shall be by means of poles located, as
far as reasonably practical, within alleys. No such poles shall be installed or
erected until the Clerk or Administrator has approved the proposed location,
construction, and pole heights.
152.12   ASSIGNMENT.
No sale or assignment of any franchise, license, or lease of the use of the
public right-of-way or other public property shall be effective until it is
approved by the Council and until the holder thereof has filed in the office of
the Clerk written notice of the proposed sale, transfer, disposition or
assignment, such notice to clearly summarize the proposed procedure and the
terms and conditions thereof. If the City determines it needs additional
information, the holder of the franchise, license, or lease shall be required
to provide said information. The City shall be reimbursed by the holder of the
franchise, license, or lease for its reasonable costs incurred in reviewing all
matters relating to said sale or assignment, including the reasonable costs for
consultants or technical experts. Such approval by the City shall not be
unreasonably withheld. The proposed vendee, assignee or lessee shall similarly
file an instrument, duly executed, reciting such proposal, accepting the terms
of the franchise, license or lease, and agreeing to perform all of the
conditions thereof.
152.13   FORFEITURE.
The violation of any material portion of a franchise, license, or lease by the
holder thereof or its successors or assigns, or its failure promptly to perform
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be cause for forfeiture of said
franchise, license, or lease and the termination of all rights thereunder. Such
forfeiture shall be accomplished by ordinance of the City after written notice
to the holder thereof and a continuation of the violation, failure, or default
specified on the notice for at least 30 days from the date the notice was
served.
152.14   APPLICATION.
This chapter shall apply to all franchises, licenses, or leases and easements
granted by the City including all existing franchises, licenses, or leases and
easements.
152.15   REMOVAL OF MATERIAL; BOND REQUIRED.
The holder of any franchise, license, or lease, at the termination of said
franchise, license, or lease, shall remove from the public property or public
right-of-way whatever was placed in said right-of-way and shall restore the
property to a condition reasonably comparable to the condition it was in prior
to the right-of-way being used. Before a franchise, license, or lease is issued
to any person or entity, a bond shall be obtained to insure that the holder of
the franchise, license or lease shall be responsible for removing whatever was
placed in the public property or right-of-way and to further insure that said
public property or right-of-way shall be restored to a condition reasonably
comparable to the condition it was in prior to the right-of-way being used. The
amount of the bond to be secured shall be determined by the City and shall be
dependent upon the amount of cable, wire, or other material that is being
placed in the right-of-way and the estimated cost it would take to remove said
material and restore the property at the expiration of said franchise, license,
or lease.
152.16   HOME RULE.
This chapter is intended to be and shall be construed as consistent with the
reservation of local authority contained in the 25th Amendment to the Iowa
Constitution granting cities Home Rule powers. To such end any limitation on
the power of the City contained herein is to be strictly construed and the City
reserves to itself the right to exercise all power and authority to regulate
and control its local affairs and all ordinances and regulations of the City
shall be enforceable against the holder of any franchise, license, or lease.
152.17   NEW TECHNOLOGIES.
Should, within the term of any franchise, license, or lease, developments
within the field for which the grant was made offer to the holder thereof the
opportunity to effectively, efficiently, and economically serve its customers
through use of a substance or material other than those for which the grant was
originally made, then the holder of the franchise, license or lease may
petition the Council which, with such requirements or limitations as it deems
necessary to protect public health, safety and welfare, may allow the use of
such substance under the terms and conditions of the franchise, license, or
lease.
CHAPTER 155
HOUSING CODE
155.01 Definitions                      155.14 Sanitary Facilities
155.02 Registration and Fees            155.15 Sanitary Conditions
155.03 Plans of Inspection              155.16 Water Supply
155.04 Enforcement                      155.17 Lead-Based Paint
155.05 Penalties and Corrective Actions 155.18 Thermal Environment
155.06 Right to Appeal                  155.19 Structure and Materials
155.07 Scope                            155.20 Space and Security
155.08 Access and Exits                 155.21 Site and Neighborhood
155.09 Illumination and Electricity     155.22 Rooming Houses and Dormitory
                                        Residences
155.10 Fire Warning Systems             155.23 Congregate Housing
155.11 Plumbing Equipment               155.24 Independent Group Residence
155.12 Food Preparation and Refuse      155.25 Certification of Inspected
Disposal                                Housing
155.13 Interior Air Quality             155.26 Conflict with Ordinances
 
155.01   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Approved,” as to materials and types of construction, means and refers
to approval of the Housing Official as the result of investigation and tests
conducted by the Housing Official, or by reason of accepted principles or tests
by national authorities, technical or scientific organizations.
   2.   “Building, existing” means a building erected prior to the adoption of
this Housing Code, or one for which a legal building permit has been issued.
   3.   “Congregate housing” means and refers to the same as Independent Group
Residence, except that some or all of the dwelling units do not have kitchen
facilities, and connected with which there is a central dining facility to
provide meals for occupants.
   4.   “Dangerous” means likely to cause or result in harm or injury.
   5.   “Dormitory residence” means a dwelling, owned, and operated by an
educational institution, and in which students enrolled in a course of study at
the educational institution are housed.
   6.   “Dormitory room” means any room or group of rooms forming a single
rental habitable unit or intended to be used for living or sleeping, but not
for cooking purposes which is occupied by students enrolled in the educational
institution.
   7.   “Dwelling” means any building, structure, or mobile home except
temporary housing which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used for
living or sleeping by human occupants and including any appurtenances attached
thereto.
   8.   “Dwelling unit” means any mobile home, room, or group of rooms located
within a building forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used
for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating or both by one family.
   9.   “Dwelling unit, rental” means any dwelling unit which is or is intended
to be rented, leased, let, or hired out to be occupied.
   10.   “Egress” means an arrangement of existing facilities to assure a safe
means of exit from buildings.
   11.   “Emergency” means a situation which poses an immediate risk to health,
life, property, or environment.
   12.   “Family” means an individual, or two or more persons related to one
another by blood, marriage, or legal adoption, including foster children, and
not more than two roomers; or in the alternative, not more than three unrelated
persons.
   13.   “Hazardous” means a situation which poses a level of threat to life,
health, property, or environment. Most hazards are dormant or potential, with
only a theoretical risk of harm; however, once a hazard becomes “active,” it
can create an emergency situation.
   14.   “Housing Official” means the individual and the individual’s
designated representatives appointed by the Council to administer and enforce
the Housing Code.
   15.   “Independent group residence” means housing for the exclusive
residential use of two to 12 elderly, handicapped or disabled individuals,
excluding one or two Resident Assistants, if needed, who cannot live completely
independently and require a planned program of supportive services, and
designated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development as an
“Independent Group Residence.”
   16.   “Lead-based paint” means any paint containing more lead than the level
established by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission as being the “safe”
level of lead in residential paint and paint products.
   17.   “Multiple-unit residential building” means a residential building, an
apartment house or a portion of a building or an apartment house with four or
more units, hotel, motel, dormitory, or rooming house.
   18.   “Owner” means any person, agent, partnership, or corporation having a
legal or equitable interest in the property.
   19.   “Rooming house” means any dwelling, other than a nursing home, hotel,
or motel, or that part of any dwelling, containing one or more rooming units,
and in which persons either individually or as families are housed which must
be occupied by the owner thereof.
   20.   “Rooming unit” means any room or group of rooms forming a single
rental habitable unit or intended to be used for living or sleeping, but not
for cooking purposes.
   21.   “Temporary housing” means any tent, trailer, motor home or other
structure used for human shelter for less than 72 hours, which is designed to
be transported and which is not attached to the ground, to another structure,
or to any utility system on the same premises.
   22.   “Unit” means residential space for the private use of a family,
including individuals who comprise a family, such as an apartment, housing, or
independent group residence, which contains a living room, kitchen area,
bathroom, and bedroom.
   23.   “Unsafe” means lacking in security or safety, involving, or causing
danger or risk; liable to hurt or harm.
155.02   REGISTRATION AND FEES.
   1.   Notification Required. No person shall operate a rental dwelling unit,
rooming house, congregate housing, independent group residence or rental of
mobile homes unless the person has first registered such rental dwelling unit,
rooming house, congregate housing, or independent group residence with the
City. There shall be no fee for such notification.
   2.   Inspection Fees. The following fee schedule shall apply:
      A.   Regular inspections, as set forth in the Plan of Inspection,
including one re-inspection – $50.00 plus the amount of the bill submitted to
the City by the contract inspector for inspection of the exterior structure,
common areas, basement, attic.
      B.   Complaint inspections – $50.00 plus the amount of the bill submitted
to the City by the contract inspector for complaint inspection and recheck, if
a violation of the Housing Code is found; no fee to property owner if no
violation of the Housing Code is found, however a fee of $100.00 plus the
amount of the bill submitted to the City by the contract inspector shall be
assessed to the complainant for complaints found to be unfounded and filed
simply to harass or badger the property owner.
      C.   Reinspection – A fee will be charged for each scheduled reinspection
following the initial reinspection.
      D.   “No shows” (scheduled inspections in which the owner, operator,
agent, tenant, or other representative of the owner is not present to permit
the inspector entrance to the premises or any inspection that is rescheduled
with less than two hours advanced notice). A fee will be charged for each
scheduled inspection listed as a “no show.”
      E.   The fee for reinspections and “no shows” is based on the number of
rechecks or “no shows” as depicted in the following chart plus the costs to the
City as billed by the contract inspector:
 
Initial reinspection                  Included in base fee
Second reinspection or no show        $30.00
Third reinspection or no show         $45.00
Fourth reinspection or no show        $60.00
Fifth reinspection or no show         $75.00
Sixth or more reinspection or no show $100.00
 
      F.   Penalty for Late Payments. If payment of inspection and reinspection
fees is not made within 30 days of the billing date, the owner shall be charged
a late payment fee of $25.00 plus interest on the original fees beginning 30
days after the said due date. The City shall send a notice of the late payment
fee to such owner by first class mail to the owner’s personal or business
mailing address. Any unpaid penalty, fine, fee, or interest shall constitute a
lien on the real property and may be collected in the same manner as a property
tax. However, before a lien is filed, the City shall send a notice of intent to
file a lien to the owner of the housing by first class mail to such owner’s
personal or business mailing address.
   If payment of a fee due from an unfounded complaint is not made within 30
days of the billing date the complainant shall be charged a late payment fee of
$25.00 plus interest on the original fee beginning 30 days after the said due
date. The City shall send a notice of the late payment fee to such complainant
by first class mail to the complainant’s personal or business mailing address.
      G.   Appeals Process. The late payment fee and the interest shall not
accrue if such owner files an appeal with the Clerk within five business days
of receipt of the notice of same. The matter shall be heard by the Council at
its next meeting and notice to the person so appealing shall be given by
regular mail to the owner’s personal or business mailing address. At the
conclusion of the hearing, the Council shall render a written decision as to
whether or not the late payment fee and interest shall accrue. The findings of
the Council shall be the final decision on the matter.
155.03   PLANS OF INSPECTION.
   1.   Preparation of Plans. The Housing Official is authorized and directed
to develop and present to the Council for adoption, plans for the inspection of
dwelling units subject to the provisions of this chapter, including:
      A.   A plan for the regular inspection of all rental units, rooming
houses, congregate housing, and independent group residences, which shall
ensure that they are inspected at the occurrence of each of the following
events, not to exceed more than one inspection in any 12-month period:
         (1)   At time of construction;
         (2)   Upon transfer of legal title.
      B.   A plan for the inspection of all residential dwellings contained
within the City upon receipt of complaints.
   2.   Public Notice. Before making inspections pursuant to the plans
authorized in Subsection 1 of this section, the City shall publish a notice
advertising of the plan to inspect.
155.04   ENFORCEMENT.
   1.   Authority. The Housing Official is authorized and directed to enforce
all of the provisions of this Housing Code.
   2.   Right of Entry.
      A.   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this Housing Code, or whenever the Housing Official or the
Housing Official’s authorized representative has reasonable cause to believe
that there exists in any building or upon any premises any condition or code
violation which makes such building or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous,
the Housing Official may enter such building or premises at all reasonable
times to inspect the same to perform any duty imposed upon the Housing Official
by this Code, provided that if such building or premises be occupied, the
Housing Official shall first present proper credentials and request entry. If
such building or premises be unoccupied, the Housing Official shall first make
a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or
control of the building or premises and request entry. If such entry is
refused, the Housing Official or the Housing Official’s authorized
representative shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure
entry.
      B.   When the Housing Official shall have first obtained a proper
inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or
occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any building or
premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as provided in
this section, to promptly permit entry by the Housing Official for the purpose
of inspection and examination pursuant to this Code.
   3.   Inspections. All buildings or structures within the scope of this
Housing Code shall be subject to inspection in accordance with and in the
manner provided by this Code and the Building Code.
   4.   Requirements Not Covered by Code. Any requirement not specifically
covered by this Housing Code but found necessary for the safety, health, and
general welfare of the occupants of any dwelling shall be determined by the
Housing Official subject to appeal to the Council.
   5.   Notice of Violation. Whenever the City receives notice of complaint of
violation, unless determined by the Housing Official, Mayor, or Council to be
an emergency, the complaining party shall first provide written proof to the
City of an attempt to contact the property owner in regard to the complaint. If
no such attempt has been made, City staff may assist the complainant in making
such communication via form letter to the property owner. Whenever the Housing
Official determines that any dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit, or the
premises surrounding any of these, fails to meet the requirements set forth in
this Housing Code or applicable rules and regulations issued pursuant thereto,
the Housing Official, in accordance with existing legislation, shall issue a
written notice setting forth the alleged failures, and advising the owner,
occupant, operator, or agent that such failures must be corrected.
   6.   Service of Notice. The notice prescribed in Subsection 5 of this
section shall:
      A.   Be served upon the owner, occupant, operator, or agent of the
dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit personally or by first class or
certified mail, addressed to the owner, occupant, operator, or agent. If one or
more persons to whom such notice is addressed cannot be found after diligent
effort to do so, service may be made upon such persons by posting the notice in
or about the dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit described in the notice,
or by causing the notice to be published in a newspaper of general circulation,
for a period of five consecutive days.
      B.   Be served upon a resident agent for the receipt of such services of
notice designated pursuant to Subsection 155.02(2).
   7.   Reinspection. At the end of the period of time allowed for the
correction of any violation alleged, the Housing Official shall reinspect the
dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit described in the notice. If upon
reinspection, the violations are determined by the Housing Official not to have
been corrected, the Housing Official may initiate legal proceedings for the
immediate correction of the alleged violations.
   8.   Emergency Orders. Whenever the Housing Official finds that an emergency
exists on any premises, or in any structure or part thereof, or in any
defective equipment which requires immediate action to protect the public’s
health and safety or that of the occupants thereof, the Housing Official may,
with proper notice and service as described in this chapter, issue an order
reciting the existence of such an emergency and requiring the vacating of the
premises or such action taken as the Housing Official deems necessary to meet
such emergency. Notwithstanding other provisions of this Housing Code, such
order shall be effective immediately, and the premises or equipment involved
shall be placarded immediately upon service of the order. Any person to whom
such order is directed shall comply with the order. Such person may thereafter,
upon petition directed to the Council, be afforded a hearing as prescribed in
this Housing Code. Depending upon the findings of the Council at such hearings
as to whether the provisions of this Code and the rules and regulations adopted
pursuant to the Code have been complied with, the Board shall continue such
order or modify or revoke it.
155.05   PENALTIES AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS.
   1.   Actions Authorized. The Housing Official shall take any action
authorized by this chapter to assure compliance, or to prevent violations of
its provisions. Specifically, this may include citation for municipal
infractions pursuant to Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances. The Housing
Official may recommend to the City Attorney the institution of other legal or
equitable actions for the enforcement of this chapter.
   2.   Each Day a Violation. Each act of violation and every day upon which a
violation occurs or continues constitutes a separate offense.
   3.   Applicability. No penalty shall be assessed for a violation of this
chapter as for the time that the dwelling unit is vacant and remains vacant.
However, no dwelling unit for which an order or notice of an alleged violation
of this Code has been issued may be reoccupied until such time that the
violation has been corrected and a Certificate of Inspected Housing has been
issued. In the event that a dwelling or dwelling unit becomes vacant before the
violation has been corrected and a Certificate of Inspected Housing has been
issued, the Housing Official may post a notice on or about the dwelling or
dwelling unit. The notice shall state the described dwelling or dwelling unit
contains Housing Code violations and that such dwelling or dwelling unit shall
not be occupied until such time that the violations have been corrected and a
Certificate of Inspected Housing has been issued. It is the responsibility of
the owner or agent to inspect the premises at least every 30 days to make sure
the notice is still posted on the property. It shall be a violation of this
Code to remove or deface such notice until a Certificate of Inspected Housing
has been issued. It is the responsibility of the owner or agent to notify the
Housing Official within 72 hours if the notice is removed prior to the issuance
of the Certificate of Inspected Housing.
   4.   Prosecution. In case there is no prompt compliance with any violation
order, the Housing Official may issue a citation pursuant to Sections 805.1
through 805.5 of the Code of Iowa and request the City Attorney to institute an
appropriate action or proceeding at law to exact the penalty provided herein
and, in addition, may ask the legal representative to proceed at law or in
equity against the person responsible for the violation for the purpose of
ordering the person:
      A.   To restrain, correct, remove the violation or refrain from any
further execution of work;
      B.   To restrain or correct the erection, installation, or alteration of
such structure;
      C.   To require the removal of work in violation;
      D.   To prevent the occupation or use of the structure, or part of the
structure erected, constructed, installed, altered, or maintained in violation
of the provisions of this Code.
   5.   Other Remedies. The City Attorney is authorized to pursue any other
remedy available in law or equity to correct violations of the provisions of
this Housing Code.
155.06   RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   1.   Housing Code Appeals. In order to provide reasonable variances for
existing structures which cannot practicably meet the standards in the Housing
Code, but are not unsafe for habitation, a person aggrieved by a written notice
of this Housing Code may file for an appeal as provided below.
   2.   Appeals Process.
      A.   Any person aggrieved by a written notice of the City issued in
connection with any alleged violation of this Housing Code or of any applicable
rule or regulation issued pursuant to the Housing Code or by any order
requiring repair or demolition, may apply in writing to the Council for a
reconsideration of such notice or order provided that such application is made
within 30 calendar days after the date of postmark of notice or proof of
service.
      B.   As soon as practicable after receiving a written appeal, the Council
shall hold a public meeting to consider the appeal. The applicant shall be
advised in writing of the time and place of such meeting at least four days
prior to the date of the meeting. At such meeting, the applicant shall be given
an opportunity to be heard and to show cause why such notice or order should be
modified, extended, withdrawn, or variance granted. The Council may, in its
discretion, hold a public hearing on any matter brought before the Board.
      C.   The Council, by a majority vote, may sustain, modify, or withdraw
the notice or order. In granting an extension or variance of any notice or
order, the Council shall observe the following conditions:
         (1)   The Council may grant an extension of time for the compliance of
any notice or order for not more than 18 months subject to appropriate
condition and provided that the Council makes specific findings of fact based
on evidence relating to the following:
            a.   That there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships
in carrying out the strict letter of any notice or order.
            b.   That such an extension is in harmony with the general purpose
and intent of this Housing Code in securing the public health, safety, and
general welfare.
         (2)   The Council may grant a variance in a specific case and from a
specific provision of this Housing Code subject to appropriate conditions and
provided the Council makes specific findings of fact based on evidence relating
to the following:
            a.   That there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships
in carrying out the strict letter of any notice or order.
            b.   That the effect of the application of the provisions would be
arbitrary in the specific case.
            c.   That an extension would not constitute an appropriate remedy
for these practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in this arbitrary
effect.
            d.   That such a variance is in harmony with the general purpose
and intent of this Housing Code in securing the public health, safety, and
general welfare.
      D.   Failure of any person to file an appeal in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall constitute a waiver of the right to an
administrative hearing and adjudication of the notice and order or to any
portion thereof.
      E.   Enforcement of any notice or order issued under this Code shall be
stayed during the duration of an appeal of the order, which is properly and
timely filed.
155.07   SCOPE.
The requirements and standards set forth in Section 155.08 through 155.21 of
this chapter shall apply to all residential dwelling units and their premises
in the City.
155.08   ACCESS AND EXITS.
Exits serving every building, structure or confined area which are used or
intended to be used at any time for human occupancy shall be maintained in
accordance with this Housing Code.
   1.   Performance Standards. The dwelling unit shall be usable and capable of
being maintained without unauthorized use of other private properties, and the
building shall provide an alternate means of egress in case of fire including,
but not limited to, fire stairs or egress through windows. Sole access to the
dwelling unit may not be through another dwelling unit. Alternate means of
egress may include:
      A.   An openable window if the unit is on the first or second floor or
easily accessible to the ground.
      B.   A back door opening onto a porch with a stairway leading to the
ground.
      C.   Such other methods as permitted by City or State Fire Codes.
      D.   Required exits shall not be blocked or otherwise unusable.
155.09   ILLUMINATION AND ELECTRICITY.
   1.   Performance Requirement. Each room shall have adequate or artificial
illumination to permit normal indoor activities and to support the health and
safety of the occupants. Sufficient electrical sources shall be provided to
permit use of essential electrical appliances while assuring safety from fire.
The following performance standards shall be met:
      A.   Windows must be free of signs of deterioration or missing or broken-
out windowpanes. “Deterioration” means that the window is no longer able to
keep out snow or rain; or that broken glass presents a hazard. Windowpanes must
not be dangerously loose. Windows must be able to close.
      B.   The required light fixtures and outlets must be present and working.
Light fixtures must be securely fastened to a ceiling or wall.
      C.   The electrical system shall not contain the following:
         (1)   Broken or frayed electrical wires.
         (2)   Bare metal wires not covered by rubber or plastic insulation.
         (3)   Loose or improper wire connections to outlets.
         (4)   Light fixtures hanging from electric wire.
         (5)   Missing cover plates on switches or outlets.
         (6)   Rubber or plastic-coated electrical wiring in a room that is
mounted on the surface of a wall or ceiling in a manner that allows it to be
broken, cut, or damaged in other ways. This standard applies to surface mounted
non-metallic sheathed wires including, but not limited to “Romex.”
         (7)   Lamp cord used as part of the permanent wiring.
         (8)   Outlets or electric appliances located too near where water
might splash. Outlets near any source of water must be G.F.I. compliant.
         (9)   Exterior wiring and appliances unsuited to all-weather service.
      D.   Shared exits, and common hall and stairways in every building,
except single-family, not new dwellings, shall be reasonably illuminated at any
time the building is occupied for travel in such areas.
   2.   Acceptability Criteria. Living and sleeping rooms shall include at
least one window. A light fixture shall be present and working in the bathroom
and kitchen area. At least two electric outlets, one of which may be an
overhead light, shall be present and operable in the living area, kitchen area
and each bedroom area.
   3.   Electrical Equipment. All electrical equipment, wiring, and appliances
shall be installed and maintained in a safe manner. All electrical equipment
shall be of an approved type and comply with the National Electrical Code in
effect at the time.
155.10   FIRE WARNING SYSTEMS.
It is the responsibility of the owner, operator, or agent of the dwelling unit
to provide smoke detectors conforming to all of the following for each dwelling
unit or rooming unit:
   1.   Every dwelling unit and every rooming unit in a rooming house used for
sleeping purposes shall be provided with smoke detectors.
      A.   In dwelling units, detectors shall be mounted on the ceiling or wall
at a point centrally located in the corridor or area giving access to rooms
used for sleeping purposes.
      B.   In an efficiency dwelling unit, the detector shall be centrally
located on the ceiling of the main room and central corridor.
      C.   Where sleeping rooms are on an upper level, the detector shall be
placed at the center of the ceiling directly above the stairway.
   2.   All detectors shall be located in accordance with approved
manufacturer’s instructions. When actuated, the detector shall provide an alarm
in the dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   3.   In new construction, required smoke detectors shall receive their
primary power from the bonding wiring when such wiring is served from a
commercial source. Wiring shall be permanent and without a disconnecting switch
other than those required for over-current protection.
   4.   Smoke detectors may be battery operated when installed in existing
buildings or in buildings without commercial power, or in existing buildings
which undergo alterations, repairs, or additions.
   5.   All multiple-unit residential buildings shall be equipped with at least
one smoke detector in each corridor, unless that building is equipped with heat
detection devices or a sprinkler system with alarms approved by the State Fire
Marshal.
It is the responsibility of the tenant to maintain the smoke detectors and to
periodically test the smoke detectors in accordance with manufacturer’s
instructions.
155.11   PLUMBING EQUIPMENT.
All plumbing equipment, pipes, and appliances shall be installed and maintained
in a safe manner. All plumbing equipment shall be of an approved type. The
following performance standards shall apply:
   1.   Plumbing pipes and fixtures shall be free from major leaks.
   2.   The hot water heater must be located, equipped, and installed in a safe
manner. No combustible materials may be piled up against the heater. The hot
water heater must have a temperature-pressure relief valve and discharge line
directed toward the floor. Hot water heater flues must have adequate clearance
from combustible materials. Hot water heater flues must safely vent exhaust
gases and have a slope of at least one-fourth inch for each foot of run. The
hot water heater must not have any serious leaks.
155.12   FOOD PREPARATION AND REFUSE DISPOSAL.
   1.   Performance Requirement. The dwelling unit shall contain suitable space
and equipment to store, prepare, and serve foods in a sanitary manner.
   2.   Performance Standards. The following performance standards shall be
applied:
      A.   Adequate space and available hook ups (power sources) shall be
available for oven and stove or range and refrigerator.
      B.   The kitchen or kitchen area must have a permanently attached kitchen
sink. The sink must have running hot and cold water from the faucets and a
properly connected drain with a gas trap.
155.13   INTERIOR AIR QUALITY.
The following performance standards shall be applied:
   1.   The dwelling units shall be free from carbon monoxide, sewer gas, fuel
gas, radon, and formaldehyde in levels considered to be dangerous by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.
   2.   Bathroom areas must have either an openable window or a working exhaust
vent system.
155.14   SANITARY FACILITIES.
   1.   Acceptability Criteria. A flush toilet in a separate private room, a
fixed basin with hot and cold running water, and a shower or tub with hot and
cold running water shall be present in the dwelling unit, all in proper
operating condition. These facilities shall utilize an approved public or
private disposal system.
   2.   Performance Standards. The following performance standards shall be
applied:
      A.   A flush toilet must be contained within the dwelling unit and
available for the exclusive use of the occupants of the unit. Out-houses or
facilities shared by occupants of other dwelling units are not acceptable. The
toilet must allow for privacy.
      B.   The toilet must be in working condition. The toilet must have the
following:
         (1)   Be connected to a water supply and sewer drain.
         (2)   Connections, vents, and traps in sound condition. Connections,
vents, and traps must not allow severe leakage of water or escape of gases.
      C.   The bathroom area must have a working permanently installed wash
basin, and a working tub or shower. A kitchen sink is not acceptable, but a
wash basin may be located separate from the other bathroom facilities
including, but not limited to, in a hallway.
      D.   The wash basin and the tub or shower must be connected to a system
that delivers hot and cold running water; connected to a drain with a gas trap;
must not be clogged; and must not have connections that allow severe leakage of
water or escape of sewer gases.
      E.   The sanitary facilities must be connected to the City sewer system
or a private disposal system.
155.15   SANITARY CONDITIONS.
The dwelling unit and its equipment shall be free from rats and severe
infestation by mice or vermin including, but not limited to, roaches, as
evidenced by vermin runs, large vermin holes, and droppings.
155.16   WATER SUPPLY.
The unit must be connected to the City water system.
155.17   LEAD-BASED PAINT.
The dwelling unit shall be in compliance with HUD lead-based paint regulations,
24 C.F.R., Part 35, issued pursuant to the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning
Prevention Act, 42 U.S.C. 4821-4846; and the owner shall provide a
certification that the dwelling is in accordance with such HUD regulations. If
the property was constructed prior to 1950, the family, upon occupancy, shall
be furnished the notice required by HUD lead-based paint regulations and
procedures regarding the hazards of lead-based paint poisoning, the symptoms
and treatment of lead poisoning, and the precautions to be taken against lead
poisoning.
155.18   THERMAL ENVIRONMENT.
The following performance standards shall be applied:
   1.   The heating system must be capable of delivering a constant temperature
level of at least 65 degrees Fahrenheit, at a point three feet above the floor
and three feet from an exterior wall in bedrooms, living room, kitchen,
bathroom, and all other rooms used for living.
   2.   Unvented fuel burning space heaters are unacceptable.
   3.   Oil burning systems must meet all of the following standards:
      A.   Fuel oil tanks must be raised up off of the floor on a stable base
to prevent movement.
      B.   The fuel line must have a shut-off valve at the base of the tank to
turn off the flow of fuel.
      C.   Any fuel oil line that runs across the floor must be protected to
prevent any damage.
      D.   The oil tanks must be vented and filled from the outside of the
unit.
   4.   Gas burning systems must meet all of the following standards:
      A.   No gas shall be stored on the premises except for units not served
by the gas utility, in which case gas must be stored in propane tanks.
      B.   The furnace must have a manual shut-off device.
      C.   There shall be no storage of gasoline cans, gasoline burning engines
or gasoline tanks in any living unit.
   5.   Combustible material must not be stored around the furnace by either
the landlord or the tenant.
   6.   Fuel burning heating systems must be properly vented to the outside.
The flue pipe and collar around it must be tight against the wall to prevent
the escape of fumes. There must be adequate clearance between the flue and any
combustible materials.
   7.   The heating system must be properly installed.
   8.   The unit must be capable of being cooled by either some operable
windows or working cooling equipment including, but not limited to, a central
fan ventilation system, an evaporative cooling system, room or central air
conditioning.
155.19   STRUCTURE AND MATERIALS.
   1.   Ceilings. Ceilings shall not have such serious defects that a potential
exists for structural collapse.
   2.   Floors. Floors shall not have such serious defects that a potential
exists for structural collapse.
   3.   Foundation. The foundation must be sound and free from hazards. The
foundation must not contain any of the following features: evidence of major
recent settling; large cracks or holes; severe leaning; large sections of
crumbling brick, stone, or concrete; undermining of footings, walls, posts, or
slab; major deterioration of wood support members due to water damage or
termite or other insect damage.
   4.   Stairs, Rails, and Porches. Stairs, porches, balconies, or decks shall
not have severe structural defects including, but not limited to, broken,
rotten or missing steps; absence of a handrail when there are four or more
consecutive steps; absence of or insecure railings around a porch or balcony
which is 30 inches or more above the ground. Open guardrail and stair railings
shall have intermediate rails or an ornamental pattern such that a sphere four
inches in diameter cannot pass through. Steps leading to the dwelling unit
which are not physically attached to the building, such as steps up a steep
lawn from the sidewalk, must meet the performance standards set forth in this
section. (For the purpose of this section, each riser in a flight constitutes a
“step.”)
   5.   Roofs and Gutters. Roofs shall be sound and free from hazards
including, but not limited to, serious buckling or sagging that indicates the
potential of structural collapse. Severe exterior defects to the roof may be
identified by serious defects within the unit such as buckling or water damage.
Gutters and downspouts shall not be deteriorated to the point that they cause
significant amounts of water to enter the unit to the point of resulting in
deterioration of the interior of the unit including, but not limited to,
rotting an exterior wall. The absence of gutters is not a violation.
   6.   Exterior Walls. Exterior walls shall be sound and free from such
hazards that would indicate imminent structural collapse.
   7.   Chimneys. The chimney must not be seriously leaning or show evidence of
deterioration or disintegration of its parts. The chimney must be capable of
venting exhaust gases and smoke reasonably well.
   8.   Interior Stairs and Hallways. Interior stairs must be free from safety
hazards to the occupants including, but not limited to: loose or broken steps
or handrails on stairways; missing steps; or large numbers of vertical railings
including, but not limited to, balustrades missing. A handrail is required on
sections of stairs with four or more consecutive steps and on unprotected
heights like stairwells.
   9.   Elevators. Where elevators are in use, all elevators must have a
current inspection certificate.
   10.   Manufactured or Mobile Home Tie Downs. If the rental unit is a mobile
home, it must be securely tied down by the use of a tie-down device, anchor,
beam, or foundation bolt to prevent overturning, displacement, or other serious
damage during a windstorm.
155.20   SPACE AND SECURITY.
The following performance standards shall be applied:
   1.   The dwelling unit must have at least one sleeping room for each two
adults of the unit.
   2.   The following fixtures must be lockable and unlockable: windows and
doors that open to the outside or to a common public hall. “Lockable” means a
door or window that has a properly working lock, or is designed not to be
opened such as a picture window.
155.21   SITE AND NEIGHBORHOOD.
The site in and around the dwelling unit must be reasonably free from
conditions which seriously and continuously endanger the health and safety of
the resident. Such conditions include (but are not limited to) other buildings
on the property that pose serious hazards, such as a dilapidated shed, garage,
or other out-buildings with potential for structural collapse.
155.22   ROOMING HOUSES AND DORMITORY RESIDENCES.
   1.   Performance Requirement. Rooming houses and dormitory residences shall
meet all standards of this Housing Code, except for Section
155.12 concerning food preparation, Section
155.14 concerning sanitary facilities, Section
155.23 concerning congregate housing, and Section
155.24 concerning independent group residences.
   2.   Other Requirements. In addition, all of the following standards shall
apply:
      A.   The building shall contain and have ready access to a flush toilet
which can be used in privacy, a fixed basin with hot and cold running water,
and a shower or tub, or both, equipped with hot and cold running water, all in
proper operating condition and adequate for personal cleanliness and the
disposal of human wastes. These facilities shall utilize an approved public or
private disposal system, and shall be sufficient in number so that they need
not be shared by more than four occupants.
      B.   The rooming unit or dormitory room shall not be occupied by more
than two adults and shall afford the occupant(s) adequate space and security.
Exterior doors and windows accessible from outside each unit shall be capable
of being locked. An emergency exit plan shall be developed and occupants shall
be apprised of the details of the plan. Readily accessible fire extinguishers
shall be provided throughout the building and smoke detectors shall be provided
in every rooming unit and hallway.
155.23   CONGREGATE HOUSING.
   1.   Performance Requirement. Congregate housing shall meet all standards of
this Housing Code, except for Section 155.12 concerning food preparation and
refuse disposal, Section
155.22 concerning rooming houses, and Section
155.24 concerning independent group residences.
   2.   Other Requirements. In addition, all of the following standards shall
apply:
      A.   The unit shall contain a refrigerator of appropriate size.
      B.   The sanitary facilities described in Section
155.14 shall be contained within the unit.
      C.   The central dining facilities and central kitchen shall be located
within the building or housing complex and be accessible to the occupants of
the congregate units, and shall contain suitable space and equipment to store,
prepare, and serve food in a sanitary manner by a food service or persons other
than the occupants and shall be for the primary use of occupants of the
congregate units and be sufficient in size to accommodate the occupants. There
shall be adequate facilities and services for the sanitary disposal of food
waste and refuse, including facilities for temporary storage where necessary
including, but not limited to, garbage cans.
155.24   INDEPENDENT GROUP RESIDENCE.
   1.   Performance Requirement. Independent group residences shall meet all
standards of this Housing Code, except for Section
155.12 concerning food preparation and refuse disposal, Section
155.14 concerning sanitary facilities, Section
155.19 concerning structure and materials, Section
155.20 concerning space and security, Section
155.21 concerning site and neighborhood, Section
155.22 concerning rooming houses, and Section
155.23 concerning congregate housing.
   2.   Other Requirements. In addition, all of the following standards shall
apply:
      A.   The unit shall contain and have ready access to a flush toilet which
can be used in privacy, a fixed basin with hot and cold running water, all in
proper operating condition and adequate for personal cleanliness and disposal
of human wastes. These facilities shall utilize an approved public or private
disposal system and shall be sufficient in number so that they need not be
shared by more than four occupants. Those units accommodating occupants with
disabilities with wheelchairs or other special equipment shall provide access
to all sanitary facilities and shall provide as appropriate to needs to the
occupants, basins, and toilets of appropriate height; grab bars to toilets,
showers, or bathtubs or both; shower seats; and adequate space for movement.
      B.   The unit shall contain suitable space to store, prepare, and serve
food in a sanitary manner. A cooking stove or range, refrigerators of
appropriate size and in sufficient quantity for the number of occupants, and a
kitchen sink with hot and cold running water shall be present and in proper
operating condition. The sink shall drain into an approved private or public
system. Adequate space for the storage, preparation, and serving of food shall
be provided. There shall be adequate facilities and services for the sanitary
disposal of food wastes and refuse including facilities for temporary storage
where necessary including, but not limited to, garbage cans.
      C.   The dwelling unit shall afford the family adequate space and
security. A living room, kitchen, dining area, bathroom, and other appropriate
social unit or recreational community space shall be within the unit and a
dwelling unit shall contain at least one sleeping room of appropriate size for
each two persons. Exterior doors and windows accessible from outside each unit
shall be capable of being locked. An emergency exit plan shall be developed,
and occupants shall be apprised of the details of the plan. Regular fire
inspections shall be conducted by appropriate local officials. Readily
accessible first-aid supplies and fire extinguishers shall be provided
throughout the unit, smoke detectors shall be provided and emergency phone
numbers including, but not limited to, police, ambulance, fire departments, and
so forth, shall be provided to each occupant. All emergency and safety features
and procedures shall meet applicable State and local standards.
      D.   The unit shall be structurally sound so as not to pose any threat to
the health and safety of the occupants and so as to protect the occupants from
the environment. Ceilings, walls, and floors shall not have any serious defects
including, but not limited to, severe bulging or leaning, large holes, loose
surface materials, severe buckling or noticeable movement under walking stress,
missing parts, or other serious damage. The roof structure shall be firm and
roof shall be weather-tight. The exterior wall structure and exterior wall
surface shall not have any serious defects including, but not limited to,
serious leaning, buckling, sagging, cracks or holes, loose siding, or other
serious damage. The condition and equipment of interior and exterior stairways,
halls, porches, walkways, and so forth, shall be such as not to present a
danger of tripping or falling. Elevators shall be maintained in safe and
operating condition. Units accommodating occupants with disabilities with
wheelchairs and other special equipment shall not contain architectural
barriers which impede access or use, and handrails and ramps shall be provided
as appropriate.
      E.   The site and neighborhood shall be reasonably free from disturbing
noises and reverberations and other hazards to the health, safety, and general
welfare of the occupants, and shall not be subject to serious adverse
environmental conditions, natural or manmade including, but not limited to,
dangerous walks, steps, instability, flooding, poor drainage, septic tank
backups, sewage hazards or mud slides; abnormal air pollution, smoke or dust;
excessive accumulations of trash, vermin or rodent infestation; or fire
hazards. The unit shall be located in a residential setting and be similar in
size and appearance to housing generally found in the neighborhood and be
within walking distance or accessible via public or available private
transportation to medical and other appropriate commercial and community
service facilities.
   3.   Supportive Services.
      A.   A planned program of adequate supportive services appropriate to the
needs of the occupants shall be provided on a continual basis by qualified
resident assistants residing in the unit or other qualified persons not
residing in the unit who will provide such services on a continual, planned
basis. Supportive services which are provided within the unit may include the
following types of services: counseling, social services which promote physical
activity, intellectual stimulation or social motivation, or both; training or
assistance with activities of daily living including housekeeping, dressing,
personal hygiene, grooming, or both; provision of basic first-aid skills in
case of emergencies; supervision of self-administration of medications, diet
and nutrition; an assurance that occupants obtain incidental medical care, as
needed, by facilitating the making of appointments and transportation to
medical facilities. Supportive services provided within the unit shall not
include the provision of continual nursing, medical or psychiatric care.
      B.   The provision and quality of the planned program of supportive
services, including the minimal qualifications, quantity, and working hours of
the resident assistants living in the unit or other persons providing continual
supportive services, shall be initially determined by the service agency in
accordance with the standards established by the State. Compliance with these
standards by the service agency shall be regularly monitored throughout the
term of the contract by the public housing appropriate State agency or a local
authority, other than the service agency providing services designated by the
State to establish, maintain, and enforce such standards.
      C.   Written service agreements or agreements approved by the State and
in effect between the owner and the service agency or the entities, or both,
which provide the necessary supportive service, shall be submitted to the
public housing agency with their request for lease approval. The lease shall
set forth the owner’s obligation for and means of providing these services. If
the lessor provides the supportive services, a service agreement is not
required and the provision of these services shall be incorporated into the
lease and shall be approved by the State.
   4.   State Approval. Independent group residences shall be licensed,
certified, or otherwise approved in writing by the appropriate State agency
prior to the execution of the initial contract. This approval shall be re-
examined periodically based on a schedule established by the State. To ensure
the facilities and supportive services are appropriate to the needs of the
occupants, the State shall also approve the written service agreements or lease
if the provider of such services is the lessor, for each independent group
residence.
155.25   CERTIFICATION OF INSPECTED HOUSING.
Whenever the Housing Official has inspected or caused to be inspected any
dwelling unit and has determined that the dwelling unit is in compliance with
the provisions of this Housing Code, a Certificate of Inspected Housing shall
be issued to the owner or the agent of the dwelling unit.
155.26   CONFLICT WITH ORDINANCES.
In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with
the provision of any zoning, building, fire, safety or health ordinance or code
of the City or State existing on the effective date of this chapter, the
provision which establishes the higher standard for the promotion and
protection of the health and safety of the people shall prevail. In any case
where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with a provision
of any ordinance or code of the City existing on the effective date of this
chapter which establishes a lower standard for the promotion and protection of
the health and safety of the people, the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed to prevail, and such other ordinances or codes are hereby declared to be
repealed to the extent that they may be found in conflict with this chapter.
CHAPTER 160
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
 
160.01 Definitions                       160.06 Standards for Floodplain
                                         (Overlay) District
160.02 Statutory Authority, Findings of  160.07 Appointment and Duties of Board
Fact, and Purpose                        of Appeals
160.03 General Provisions                160.08 Nonconforming Uses
160.04 Administration                    160.09 Penalties for Violation
160.05 Establishment of Zoning (Overlay) 160.10 Amendments
Districts
 
160.01   DEFINITIONS.
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   1.   “Appurtenant structure” means a structure which is on the same parcel
of the property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which
is incidental to the use of the principal structure.
   2.   “Base flood” means the flood having one percent chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year. (Also commonly referred to as the “100-year
flood.”)
   3.   “Base flood elevation” (BFE) means the elevation floodwaters would
reach at a particular site during the occurrence of a base flood event.
   4.   “Basement” means any enclosed area of a structure which has its floor
or lowest level below ground level (subgrade) on all sides. Also see “lowest
floor.”
   5.   “Board of Appeals” means the Council of the City.
   6.   “Development” means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including (but not limited to) buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations, or storage
of equipment or materials. Development does not include minor projects or
routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities, as defined in this
section. It also does not include gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling or grading.
   7.   “Enclosed area below lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest
enclosed area in a building when all the following criteria are met:
      A.   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic
pressure during flood events with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions
of Section
160.06(5)(A) of this chapter; and
      B.   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, drywalled, etc.) and
used solely for low damage potential uses such as building access, parking, or
storage; and
      C.   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater, furnace,
electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at least one
foot above the base flood elevation; and
      D.   The enclosed area is not a basement as defined in this section.
   8.   “Existing construction” means any structure for which the start of
construction commenced before the effective date of the first floodplain
management regulations adopted by the community.
   9.   “Existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the
community.
   10.   “Expansion of existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means
the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed
(including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   11.   “Factory-built home” means any structure, designed for residential use
which is wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed, or assembled
in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation, on a
building site. For the purpose of this chapter, factory-built homes include
mobile homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes; and also include
recreational vehicles which are placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days and not fully licensed for and ready for highway use.
   12.   “Factory-built home park or subdivision” means a parcel or contiguous
parcels of land divided into two or more factory-built home lots for sale or
lease.
   13.   “Five hundred (500) year flood” means a flood, the magnitude of which
has a two-tenths percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year
or which, on average, will be equaled or exceeded at least once every 500
years.
   14.   “Flood” means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or
rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
   15.   “Flood Insurance Rate Map” (FIRM) means the official map prepared as
part of (but published separately from) the Flood Insurance Study which
delineates both the flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community.
   16.   “Flood Insurance Study” (FIS) means a report published by FEMA for a
community issued along with the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map(s). The
study contains such background data as the base flood discharge and water
surface elevations that were used to prepare the FIRM.
   17.   “Floodplain” means any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water as a result of a flood.
   18.   “Floodplain management” means an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use of
floodplains, including (but not limited to) emergency preparedness plans, flood
control works, floodproofing, and floodplain management regulations.
   19.   “Floodproofing” means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, including utility and
sanitary facilities, which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to such
structures.
   20.   “Floodway” means the channel of a river or stream and those portions
of the floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to
carry and discharge flood waters or flood flows so that confinement of flood
flows to the floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot.
   21.   “Floodway fringe” means those portions of the Special Flood Hazard
Area outside the floodway.
   22.   “Highest adjacent grade” means the highest natural elevation of the
ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   23.   “Historic structure” means any structure that is:
      A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places,
maintained by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily determined by the
Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing of
the National Register; or
      B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district; or
      C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by
either:
         (1)   An approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or
         (2)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   24.   “Lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest enclosed area in a
building, including a basement, except when the criteria listed in the
definition of enclosed area below lowest floor are met.
   25.   “Maximum damage potential development” means hospitals and like
institutions; buildings or building complexes containing documents, data, or
instruments of great public value; buildings or building complexes containing
materials dangerous to the public or fuel storage facilities; power
installations needed in emergency or other buildings or building complexes
similar in nature or use.
   26.   “Minor projects” means small development activities (except for
filling, grading, and excavating) valued at less than $500.00.
   27.   “New construction” (new buildings, factory-built home parks) means
those structures or development for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the first floodplain management regulations
adopted by the community.
   28.   “New factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after
the effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by
the community.
   29.   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle which is:
      A.   Built on a single chassis; and
      B.   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection; and
      C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
      D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   30.   “Routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities” means
repairs necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that do
not trigger a building permit, provided they are not associated with a general
improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such repairs
include:
      A.   Normal maintenance of structures such as re-roofing, replacing
roofing tiles, and replacing siding.
      B.   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting,
cabinets, counter tops, and similar finish work.
      C.   Basement sealing.
      D.   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes.
      E.   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating, or air
conditioning systems, and repairing wells or septic systems.
   31.   “Special Flood Hazard Area” (SFHA) means the land within a community
subject to the base flood. This land is identified on the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map as Zone A, A1-30, AE, AH, AO, AR, or A99.
   32.   “Start of construction” includes substantial improvement, and means
the date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement or permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as pouring of a slab or footings, the installation of pile, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a factory-built home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the structure.
   33.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected on the ground or
attached to the ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, factories,
sheds, cabins, factory-built homes, storage tanks, grain storage facilities, or
other similar uses.
   34.   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a
structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage
condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred. Volunteer labor and donated materials shall be
included in the estimated cost of repair. Substantial damage also means flood-
related damages sustained by a structure on two separate occasions during a 10-
year period for which the cost of repairs at the time of such flood event, on
the average, equals or exceeds 25 percent of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred. Volunteer labor and donated materials shall be
included in the estimated cost of repair.
   35.   “Substantial improvement” means any improvement to a structure which
satisfies either of the following criteria:
      A.   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure
either:
         (1)   Before the start of construction of the improvement; or
         (2)   If the structure has been substantially damaged and is being
restored, before the damage occurred.
      B.   The term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a
structure to correct existing violations of State or local health, sanitary, or
safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code
enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living
conditions. The term also does not include any alteration of a historic
structure, provided the alteration will not preclude the structure’s
designation as a historic structure.
      C.   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a structure
by 25 percent or more. All additions constructed after the effective date of
the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the community shall be
added to any proposed addition in determining whether the total increase in
original floor space would exceed 25 percent.
   36.   “Variance” means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of
the floodplain management regulations.
   37.   “Violation” means the failure of a structure or other development to
be fully compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
160.02   STATUTORY AUTHORITY, FINDINGS OF FACT, AND PURPOSE.
   1.   Statutory Authority. The Legislature of the State of Iowa has in
Chapter 414, Code of Iowa, as amended, delegated the power to cities to enact
zoning regulations to secure safety from flood and to promote health and the
general welfare.
   2.   Findings of Fact.
      A.   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic
inundation which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare of
the community.
      B.   These flood losses, hazards, and related adverse effects are caused
by:
         (1)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood
damages which create hazardous conditions as a result of being inadequately
elevated or otherwise protected from flooding; and
         (2)   The cumulative effect of obstructions on the floodplain causing
increases in flood heights and velocities.
      C.   This chapter relies upon engineering methodology for analyzing flood
hazards which is consistent with the standards established by the Department of
Natural Resources.
   3.   Statement of Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to protect and
preserve the rights, privileges, and property of the City and its residents and
to preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and
convenience of its residents by minimizing those flood losses described in
Section
160.02(2)(A) with provisions designed to:
      A.   Reserve sufficient floodplain area for the conveyance of flood flows
so that flood heights and velocities will not be increased substantially.
      B.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities.
      C.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction or substantial improvement.
      D.   Protect individuals from buying lands which may not be suited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard.
      E.   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance
Program.
160.03   GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   1.   Lands to Which Chapter Applies. The provisions of this chapter shall
apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the City which are located within
the boundaries of the Floodplain (Overlay) District as established in Section
160.05.
   2.   Establishment of Official Floodplain Zoning Map. The Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM) for Allamakee County and Incorporated Ares, City of Postville,
Panel 19005C0475C, dated September 18, 2020, which were prepared as part of the
Flood Insurance Study for Allamakee and Clayton Counties, is hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be the Official Floodplain Zoning Map. The Allamakee
County Flood Insurance Study is hereby adopted by reference and is made a part
of this chapter for the purpose of administering floodplain management
regulations.
   3.   Rules for Interpretation of Floodplain (Overlay) District. The
boundaries of the Floodplain (Overlay) District areas shall be determined by
scaling distances on the official Flood Insurance Rate Map. When an
interpretation is needed as to the exact location of a boundary, the
Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The Board of Appeals
shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged that there is an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination made by the Administrator in the
enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   4.   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be used, and no
structure shall be located, extended, converted, or structurally altered,
without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   5.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. It is not intended by this chapter
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent
with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   6.   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the provisions
of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by State statutes.
   7.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The standards required by this
chapter are considered reasonable for regulatory purposes. This chapter does
not imply that areas outside the designated Floodplain (Overlay) District areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the City, or any officer or employee thereof, for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
   8.   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
160.04   ADMINISTRATION.
   1.   Appointment, Duties, and Responsibilities of Administrator.
      A.   The Clerk is hereby appointed to implement and administer the
provisions of this chapter and will herein be referred to as the Administrator.
      B.   Duties and responsibilities of the Administrator shall include (but
not necessarily be limited to) the following:
         (1)   Review all Floodplain Development Permit Applications to ensure
that the provisions of this chapter will be satisfied.
         (2)   Review Floodplain Development Applications to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from federal, State, and local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Department of
Natural Resources for floodplain construction.
         (3)   Record and maintain a record of:
            a.   The elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum
1988) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures; or
            b.   The elevation to which new or substantially improved
structures have been floodproofed.
         (4)   Notify adjacent communities, counties, and the Department of
Natural Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a
watercourse and submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
         (5)   Keep a record of all permits, appeals, and such other
transactions and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this
chapter.
         (6)   Submit to the Federal Insurance Administrator an annual report
concerning the community’s participation, utilizing the annual report form
supplied by the Federal Insurance Administrator.
         (7)   Notify the Federal Insurance Administrator of any annexations or
modifications to the community’s boundaries.
         (8)   Review subdivision proposals to ensure such proposals are
consistent with the purpose of this chapter and advise the Board of Appeals of
potential conflict.
         (9)   Maintain the accuracy of the community’s Flood Insurance Rate
Maps when:
            a.   Development placed within the floodway results in any of the
following:
               i.   An increase in the base flood elevations; or
               ii.   Alteration to the floodway boundary.
            b.   Development placed in Zones A, AE, AH, and A1-30 that does not
include a designated floodway that will cause a rise of more than one foot in
the base elevation; or
            c.   Development relocates or alters the channel.
         Within six months of the completion of the development, the applicant
shall submit to FEMA all scientific and technical data necessary for a Letter
of Map Revision.
         (10)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with the
standards of this chapter.
         (11)   Forward all requests for variances to the Board of Appeals for
consideration. Ensure all requests include the information ordinarily submitted
with applications as well as any additional information deemed necessary to the
Board of Appeals.
      C.   Floodplain Development Permit.
         (1)   Permit Required. A Floodplain Development Permit issued by the
Administrator shall be secured prior to any floodplain development (any manmade
change to improved and unimproved real estate, including but not limited to
buildings or other structures, mining, filling, grading, paving, storage of
materials and equipment, excavation, or drilling operations), including the
placement of factory-built homes.
         (2)   Application for Permit. Application shall be made on forms
furnished by the Administrator and shall include the following:
            a.   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is to be made.
            b.   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be
done (i.e., lot, block, track, street address, or similar description) that
will readily identify and locate the work to be done.
            c.   Location and dimensions of all structures and additions.
            d.   Indication of the use or occupancy for which the proposed work
is intended.
            e.   Elevation of the base flood.
            f.   Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988)
of the lowest floor (including basement) of structures or of the level to which
a structure is to be floodproofed.
            g.   For structures being improved or rebuilt, the estimated cost
of improvements and market value of the structure prior to the improvements.
            h.   Such other information as the Administrator deems reasonably
necessary (e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of this chapter.
         (3)   Action on Permit Application. The Administrator shall, within a
reasonable time, make a determination as to whether the proposed floodplain
development meets the applicable standards of this chapter and shall approve or
disapprove the application. For disapprovals, the applicant shall be informed,
in writing, of the specific reasons therefore. The Administrator shall not
issue permits for variances except as directed by the Board of Appeals.
         (4)   Construction and Use to Be as Provided in Application and Plans.
Floodplain Development Permits based on the basis of approved plans and
applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in
such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement, or
construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. The applicant shall be
required to submit certification by a professional engineer or land surveyor,
as appropriate, registered in the State, that the finished fill, structure
floor elevations, floodproofing, or other flood protection measures were
accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the
use or occupancy of any structure.
160.05   ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING (OVERLAY) DISTRICTS.  
The floodplain areas within the jurisdiction of this chapter are hereby divided
into the following districts:
   1.   Floodplain (Overlay) District – those areas identified as Zone A on the
Official Floodplain Zoning Map. The boundaries shall be as shown on the
Official Floodplain Zoning Map. Within these districts, all uses not allowed as
permitted uses are prohibited unless a variance to the terms of this chapter is
granted after due consideration by the Board of Appeals.
160.06   STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAIN (OVERLAY) DISTRICT.  
   1.   Permitted Uses.
      A.   All development within the Floodplain District shall be permitted to
the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance (or underlying
zoning district) and provided they meet applicable performance standards of the
Floodplain District.
      B.   Any development which involves placement of structures, factory-
built homes, fill or other obstructions, storage of materials or equipment,
excavation, or alteration of a watercourse shall be reviewed by the Department
of Natural Resources to determine:
         (1)   Whether the land involved is either wholly or partly within the
floodway or floodway fringe; and
         (2)   The base flood elevation.
      The applicant shall be responsible for providing the Department of
Natural Resources with sufficient technical information to make the
determination.
      C.   Review by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources is not required
for the proposed construction of new or replacement bridges or culverts where:
         (1)   The bridge or culvert is located on a stream that drains less
than two square miles, and
         (2)   The bridge or culvert is not associated with a channel
modification that constitutes a channel change as specified in 567-71.2(2),
Iowa Administrative Code.
   2.   Performance Standards. All development must be consistent with the need
to minimize flood damage and meet the following applicable performance
standards. Where base flood elevations and floodway data have not been provided
in the Flood Insurance Study, the Iowa Department of Natural Resources shall be
contacted to compute such data. The applicant will be responsible for providing
the Department of Natural Resources with sufficient technical information to
make such determination. All development shall:
      A.   Be designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement.
      B.   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      C.   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant
to flood damage.
   3.   Residential Structures. All new or substantially improved residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated a minimum
of one foot above the base flood elevation. Construction shall be upon
compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no lower than one foot above the
base flood elevation and extend at such elevation at least 18 feet beyond the
limits of any structure erected thereon. Alternate methods of elevating (such
as piers or extended foundations) may be allowed where existing topography,
street grades, or other factors preclude elevating by fill. In such cases, the
methods used must be adequate to support the structure as well as withstand the
various forces and hazards associated with flooding. All new residential
structures located in areas that would become isolated due to flooding of
surrounding ground shall be provided with a means of access that will be
passable by wheeled vehicles during the base flood. However, this criterion
shall not apply where the Administrator determines there is sufficient flood
warning time for the protection of life and property. When estimating flood
warning time, consideration shall be given to the criteria listed in 567-75.2
(3), Iowa Administrative Code.
   4.   Nonresidential Structures. All new or substantially improved
nonresidential structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation, or together with
attendant utility and sanitary systems, be floodproofed to such a level. When
floodproofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in the State
shall certify that the floodproofing methods used are adequate to withstand the
flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact, uplift forces, and other factors
associated with the base flood; and that the structure, below the base flood
elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water. A record of the certification indicating the specific elevation (in
relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the Administrator.
   5.   All New and Substantially Improved Structures.
      A.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (not including
basements) that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         (1)   A minimum of two openings, with positioning on at least two
walls, having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.
         (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
         (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   Such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles, building access,
and low damage potential storage. Where the distance between the floor and
ceiling of the fully enclosed area below the lowest floor is five feet or more,
the applicant shall be required to sign and record with the County Recorder a
Non-Conversion Agreement that ensures the lower enclosed area remains compliant
with the criteria outlined in Section 160.05(5)(A).  
      B.   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
      C.   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed with
electric meter, electrical service panel box, hot water heater, heating, air
conditioning, ventilation equipment (including ductwork), and other similar
machinery and equipment elevated (or, in the case of nonresidential structures,
optionally floodproofed to) a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation.
      D.   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed with
plumbing, gas lines, water meters, gas meters, and other similar service
utilities either elevated (or in the case of nonresidential structures,
optionally floodproofed to) a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation or designed to be watertight and withstand inundation to such a
level.
   6.   Factory-Built Homes.
      A.   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including
those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the structure
is a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation.
      B.   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including
those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be
anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Anchorage systems
may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to
ground anchors as required by the State Building Code.
   7.   Utility and Sanitary Systems.
      A.   On-site wastewater disposal and water supply systems shall be
located or designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the
system during flooding.
      B.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system as well as
the discharge of effluent into flood waters. Wastewater treatment facilities
(other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a level of flood protection
equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood elevation.
      C.   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system. Water
supply treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with
a level of protection equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood
elevation.
      D.   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.
   8.   Storage of Equipment and Materials. Storage of materials and equipment
that are flammable, explosive, or injurious to human, animal, or plant life is
prohibited unless elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation. Other material and equipment must either be similarly elevated or:
      A.   Not be subject to major flood damage and be anchored to prevent
movement due to flood waters; or
      B.   Be readily removable from the area within the time available after
flood warning.
   9.   Flood Control Structures. Flood control structural works such as
levees, flood walls, etc. shall provide, at a minimum, protection from the base
flood with a minimum of three feet of design freeboard and shall provide for
adequate interior drainage. In addition, the Department of Natural Resources
shall approve structural flood control works.
   10.   Watercourse Alterations. Watercourse alterations or relocations must
be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion. In addition, the Department of Natural Resources must
approve such alterations or relocations.
   11.   Subdivisions. Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks and
subdivisions) shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
Development associated with subdivision proposals (including the installation
of public utilities) shall meet the applicable performance standards of this
chapter. Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide all
lots with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during
the base flood. Proposals for subdivisions greater than five acres or 50 lots
(whichever is less) shall include base flood elevation data for those areas
located within the Floodplain (Overlay) District.
   12.   Accessory Structures to Residential Uses.
      A.   Detached garages, sheds, and similar structures that are incidental
to a residential use are exempt from the base flood elevation requirements
where the following criteria are satisfied:
         (1)   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential. Its size shall not exceed 600 square feet in size. Those portions of
the structure located less than one foot above the base flood elevation must be
constructed of flood-resistant materials.
         (2)   The structure shall be used solely for low flood damage
potential purposes such as vehicle parking and limited storage. The structure
shall not be used for human habitation.
         (3)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
         (4)   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement which may result in damage to other structures.
         (5)   The structure’s service facilities such as electrical and
heating equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed to at least one foot above
the base flood elevation.
         (6)   The structure’s walls shall include openings that satisfy the
provisions of Section 160.06(5)(A).
      B.   Exemption from the base flood elevation requirements for such a
structure may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance coverage of
the structure and its contents.
   13.   Recreational Vehicles.
      A.   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the requirements of Section
160.06(6) regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built homes when the
following criteria are satisfied.
         (1)   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for less
than 180 consecutive days, and
         (2)   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
      B.   Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more than 180
consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must satisfy requirements of
Section 160.06(6) regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built homes.
   14.   Pipeline Crossings. Pipeline river and stream crossings shall be
buried in the streambed and banks, or otherwise sufficiently protected to
prevent rupture due to channel degradation and meandering.
   15.   Maximum Damage Potential Development. All new or substantially
improved maximum damage potential development shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated a minimum of one foot above the elevation of the
500-year flood, or together with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be
floodproofed to such a level. When floodproofing is utilized, a professional
engineer registered in the State shall certify that the floodproofing methods
used are adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact,
uplift forces, and other factors associated with the two-tenths percent annual
chance flood; and that the structure, below the two-tenths percent annual
chance flood elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water. A record of the certification indicating the specific
elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Administrator. Where a
two-tenths percent chance flood elevation data has not been provided in the
Flood Insurance Study, the Iowa Department of Natural Resources shall be
contacted to compute such data. The applicant will be responsible for providing
the Department of Natural Resources with sufficient technical information to
make such determinations.
160.07   APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES OF BOARD OF APPEALS.
   1.   Appointment and Duties of Board of Appeals. A Board of Appeals is
hereby established which shall hear and decide:
      A.   Appeals; and,
      B.   Requests for variances to the provisions of this chapter, and shall
take any other action which is required of the Board.
   2.   Appeals. Where it is alleged that there is any error in any order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative official in
the enforcement of this chapter, the aggrieved party may appeal such action.
The notice of appeal shall be filed with the Board of Appeals and with the
official from whom the appeal is taken and shall set forth the specific reason
for the appeal. The official from whom the appeal is taken shall transmit to
the Board of Appeals all the documents constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken.
   3.   Variance. The Board of Appeals may authorize upon request in specific
cases such variances from the terms of this chapter that will not be contrary
to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary
hardship. Variances granted must meet the following applicable standards.
      A.   Variances shall only be granted upon:
         (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (3)   A determination that the granting of the variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local codes or ordinances.
      B.   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      C.   In cases where the variance involves a lower level of flood
protection for structures than what is ordinarily required by this chapter, the
applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature of the Administrator
that:
         (1)   The issuance of a variance will result in increased premium
rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25.00 for $100.00 of
insurance coverage; and
         (2)   Such construction increases risks to life and property.
      D.   All variances granted shall have the concurrence or approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
   4.   Hearings and Decisions of the Board of Appeals.
      A.   Hearings. Upon the filing with the Board of an appeal or a request
for a variance, the Board shall hold a public hearing. The Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the hearing and give public notice thereof, as well as due
notice to parties in interest. At the hearing, any party may appear in person
or by agent or attorney and present written or oral evidence. The Board may
require the appellant or applicant to provide such information as is reasonably
deemed necessary and may request the technical assistance or evaluation of a
professional engineer or other expert person or agency, including the
Department of Natural Resources.
      B.   Decisions. The Board shall arrive at a decision on an appeal or
variance within a reasonable time. In passing upon an appeal, the Board may, so
long as such action is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter,
reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination appealed from, and it shall make its decision, in
writing, setting forth the findings of fact and the reasons for its decision.
In granting a variance, the Board shall consider such factors as contained in
this section and all other relevant sections of this chapter and may prescribe
such conditions as contained in Section
160.09(4)(B)(2).
         (1)   Factors Upon Which the Decision of the Board Shall Be Based. In
passing upon applications for variances, the Board shall consider all relevant
factors specified in other sections of this chapter and:
            a.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights
or velocities caused by encroachments.
            b.   The danger that materials may be swept on to other land or
downstream to the injury of others.
            c.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the
ability of these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary
conditions.
            d.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents
to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
            e.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the City.
            f.   The requirements of the facility for a floodplain location.
            g.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to
flooding for the proposed use.
            h.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing
development and development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
            i.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for the area.
            j.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
            k.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood water expected at the site.
            l.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer,
gas, electrical, and water systems), facilities, streets, and bridges.
            m.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this
chapter.
         (2)   Conditions Attached to Variances. Upon consideration of the
factors listed above, the Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose of this chapter. Such
conditions may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
            a.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
            b.   Limitation of periods of use and operation.
            c.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
            d.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes,
levees, and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the
Department of Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative
to achieving the purpose of this chapter.
            e.   Floodproofing measures shall be designed consistent with the
flood protection elevation for the particular area, flood velocities, duration,
rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, and other factors associated
with the regulatory flood. The Board shall require that the applicant submit a
plan or document certified by a registered professional engineer that the
floodproofing measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection
elevation and associated flood factors for the particular area.
   5.   Appeals to the Court. Any person or persons, jointly or severally,
aggrieved by any decision of the Board may present to a court of record a
petition, duly verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole
or in part, specifying the grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be
presented to the court within 30 days after the filing of the decision in the
office of the Board.
160.08   NONCONFORMING USES.
   1.   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of the ordinance codified in this chapter, but
which is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, may be
continued subject to the following conditions:
      A.   If such use is discontinued for six consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
      B.   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
      C.   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50
percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred, unless
it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
State or local health, sanitary, building, or safety codes or regulations, or
the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation.
   2.   Except as provided in Section
160.08(1)(B), any use which has been permitted as a variance shall be
considered a conforming use.
160.09   PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.  
Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
the requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variances) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any
person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $500.00. Each
day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing
herein contained shall prevent the City from taking such other lawful action as
is necessary to prevent or remedy violation.
160.10   AMENDMENTS.  
The regulations and standards set forth in this chapter may from time to time
be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed. No amendment, supplement,
change, or modification shall be undertaken without prior approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
CHAPTER 164
FIRE ZONE
 
164.01 Fire Zone Established  164.05 Reconstruction Prohibited
164.02 Plans Submitted        164.06 Special Permit
164.03 Structures Prohibited  164.07 Removal of Structures
164.04 Construction Standards 164.08 Storage of Materials Restricted
 
164.01   FIRE ZONE ESTABLISHED.
A Fire Zone is established to include all of the following territory:
All of Lots 1, 2, 3 and 4 and the south 135 feet of Lots 5 to 18, inclusive, in
Block 11, Lawler’s Addition, Postville;
All of Lots 13 to 20, inclusive, in subdivision of Block 1, Ellis and Co.’s
Third Addition, Postville;
The north one hundred thirty-five (135) feet of Block Twenty-one (21), Lawler’s
Addition, Postville;
Lots 25, 26 and 27, Block Twenty-one (21), Lawler’s Addition, Postville;
Lots 12 through 23, inclusive, Block Two (2), Mott’s Addition, Postville;
Lots 7 and 8, Block 3, Mott’s Addition, Postville;
Lots 1, 2, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18, Block Twenty-two (22), Lawler’s Addition,
Postville;
Lots 1, 2, 17, and 18, Block Thirty-one (31), Lawler’s Addition, Postville;
All of Meyer and Co.’s Addition, Postville; and
One hundred (100) feet on east side of Lawler Street from Tilden Street south
to the alley in the middle of Block One (1), Original Town, Postville.
164.02   PLANS SUBMITTED.
It is unlawful to construct, enlarge. or alter any structure or part thereof,
within the Fire Zone until a plan of the proposed work, together with a
statement of materials to be used has been submitted to the Zoning
Administrator, who shall, if in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
issue a permit for the proposed work.
164.03   STRUCTURES PROHIBITED.
The construction of any structure of any kind, or additions or substantial
alterations involving partial reconstruction, are prohibited in the Fire Zone,
unless constructed in strict compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
164.04   CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
The construction standards for all structures or parts thereof within the Fire
Zone shall be of Type I, Type II, or, at a minimum, Type III - 1 hour fire
resistant - construction, as specified in the Uniform Building Code. For fire
resistant construction refer to Uniform Building Code: Table 7-A, Minimum
Protection for Structure Parts; Table 7-B, Rated Fire-Restrictive Periods for
Various Wall, and Partitions; Table 7-C, Minimum Protection for Floor and Roof.
Examples of fire-resistant construction are:
   1.   Type I: No combustible materials (concrete)
   2.   Type II: Some noncombustible materials (metal bar joists, reinforced
steel)
   3.   Type III: Resistant noncombustible (metal pans, steel joists, protected
with other materials or dry wall with spray-on fireproofing)
   4.   Type IV: Non-protected (heavy timber or pre-engineered metal shed with
metal roof that collapses)
   5.   Type V: Wood
164.05   RECONSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
Any structure within the Fire Zone not constructed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, which may hereafter be damaged by fire, decay, or
otherwise, shall not be reconstructed or altered, except in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
164.06   SPECIAL PERMIT.
The Board of Adjustment may, by four-fifths vote, issue a special permit to
improve any property within the Fire Zone contrary to the provisions of this
chapter, on condition that such improvement shall not increase the rates for
fire insurance or the fire hazard potential of the area, or to allow any person
to erect or move in any structure for temporary purposes for a period of time
not exceeding six months from the date of such permission.
164.07   REMOVAL OF STRUCTURES.
Any person who erects any structure in the Fire Zone, contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, shall be given written notice by the Zoning
Administrator to remove or tear down the same, and if such removal or taking
down is not completed within 30 days from the time of the service of such
notice, the Zoning Administrator shall cause the same to be removed or taken
down. The Zoning Administrator shall report an itemized bill of the expense to
the Clerk, and the same shall be charged to the person owning such structure.
The Clerk shall present the bill to the owner of the property and if the bill
is not paid within 10 days from the date it is presented, the amount of the
bill shall be certified, by the Clerk, to the County Treasurer, as a lien
against the property and collected the same as other taxes.
164.08   STORAGE OF MATERIALS RESTRICTED.
No person shall have or deposit any pile of rubbish, explosives, hazardous
chemicals or other flammable substance within the Fire Zone, nor shall any
person have or deposit any cord wood or fire wood, within the Fire Zone without
written permission from the Zoning Administrator, specifying the maximum amount
of such cord wood or fire wood, that may be kept, stored, or deposited on any
lot or part of a lot within the Fire Zone, unless the same be within one of the
structures allowed by this chapter.
CHAPTER 165
ZONING REGULATIONS
165.01 Title                          165.18 R-1 Residential District
165.02 Jurisdiction                   165.19 R-2 General Residential District
165.03 Purpose                        165.20 R-3 Manufactured/Mobile/Compact
                                      Home Communities
165.04 Consistency with Comprehensive 165.21 C-1 Commercial Central Business
Plan                                  District
165.05 Planning and Zoning Commission 165.22 C-2 Commercial - Highway
Recommendations                       Commercial District
165.06 Definitions                    165.23 I-1 Light Industrial District
165.07 Administration                 165.24 I-2 Heavy Industrial District
165.08 Compliance Permits             165.25 Off-Street Parking and Loading
                                      Spaces
165.09 Location Permit                165.26 Fencing and Shrubbery
165.10 Enforcement                    165.27 Signs
165.11 Penalties                      165.28 Nonconforming Uses and Structures
165.12 Subdevelopment                 165.29 Home Occupation Regulations
165.13 Board of Adjustment            165.30 Amendments and Changes of this
                                      Ordinance
165.14 Establishment of Districts     165.31 Zoning of Annexed Land
165.15 District Boundaries            165.32 Interpretation, Purpose, and
                                      Conflict
165.16 Extent of Regulations Within   165.33 Rate Schedule for Zoning Code
Each District                         Permits
165.17 A-1 Agricultural District      165.34 Zoning Map Changes
 
165.01   TITLE.
This chapter shall be known as the Zoning Code of the City of Postville, Iowa.
165.02   JURISDICTION.
The provision of the Postville Zoning Code shall be applicable to all property
within the corporate limits of the City, and as may be amended by subsequent
annexations.
165.03   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this Zoning Code is for the promotion of the health, safety,
morals, and the general welfare of the community or for the purpose of
preserving historically significant areas of the community. The City is
empowered by Chapter 414 of the Code of Iowa to regulate and restrict the
height, number of stores, and size of buildings and other structures, the
percentage of a lot that may be occupied, the size of yards, courts, and other
open areas, the density of population, and the location and use of buildings,
structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, or other purposes.
165.04   CONSISTENCY WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
The City intends that this Zoning Code and any amendment to it shall be
consistent with the City’s Comprehensive Plan. It is the City’s intent to amend
this Zoning Code whenever such action is deemed necessary to keep regulatory
provisions in conformance with the Comprehensive Plan.
165.05   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS.
Pursuant to Section 414.6 of the Code of Iowa, it shall be the purpose of the
Planning and Zoning Commission, as established in
Chapter 23 to recommend the boundaries of the various original districts and
appropriate regulations to be enforced therein. The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall make a preliminary report and hold a public hearing thereon
before submitting its final report.
165.06   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of these zoning regulations, certain terms and words are hereby
defined. The words “used” and “occupied” include the words “intended, designed,
or arranged to be used or occupied,” and the word “lot” includes the words
“plot” and “parcel.”
   1.   Words beginning with “A.”
      A.   “Accessory use” means a use or structure, portable or otherwise,
subordinate to the principal use of a structure or land on the same lot or
parcel of ground and serving a purpose customarily incidental to the use of the
principal structure or use of land.
      B.   “Administrative officer” means the individual appointed by the Mayor
and approved by the Council who shall administer and enforce the provisions of
this Zoning Code. Appeals of the decision of the Administrative Officer shall
be made to the Board of Adjustment as provided herein. This person may also be
referred to as the Zoning Administrator.
      C.   “Agricultural use” means a use of land for purposes of growing the
usual farm products and including farming, dairying, agriculture, horticulture,
floriculture, viticulture, and animal and poultry husbandry.
      D.   “Alterations, structural” means any changes in loading bearing
members of a structure, such as walls, columns, beams, girders, trusses, and
rafters.
      E.   “Apartment” means a room or suite of rooms, with toilet and culinary
accommodations, used or designed for use as a residence by a family, located in
a structure containing two or more such rooms or suites or located in a
structure devoted primarily to non-residential use.
      F.   “Awning” means a roof-like structure that serves as a shelter, as
over a window. See also Section
136.14.
   2.   Words beginning with “B.”
      A.   “Basement” means the portion of a structure that is partially or
wholly below grade.
      B.   “Bed and breakfast home” means a private residence which provides
lodging and meals for guests, in which the host or hostess resides, and which,
while it may advertise and accept reservations, does not present itself to the
public as a restaurant, hotel, or motel, does not require reservations, and
serves only to overnight guests.
      C.   “Block frontage” means all of the property on one side of a street
between two intersecting streets.
      D.   “Board” means Board of Adjustment.
      E.   “Boarding rooming house” means a structure other than a hotel where,
for compensation and by arrangement, lodging and meals are provided for
residents only.
      F.   “Business” or “Commercial” means engaging in the purchases, sale or
exchange of goods or services, or the operation for profit of offices or
recreational or amusement enterprises.
   3.   Words beginning with “C.”
      A.   “Carport” means a roofed structure providing space for the parking
of motor vehicles and enclosed on not more than two sides. For the purpose of
this Code, a carport attached to a principal building shall be considered as
part of the principal building and subject to all yard requirements.
      B.   “Clinic” (dental or medical) means a place for the care, diagnosis,
and treatment of sick, ailing, infirm, or injured persons and those who are in
need of medical or surgical attention, but who are not provided with board or
room or kept overnight on the premises.
      C.   “Clinic” (veterinary) means a place for the care, diagnosis, and
treatment of sick, ailing, or injured animals and those in need of medical or
surgical attention, but not for extended boarding of large animals.
      D.   “Condominiums” means a residential or commercial structure
consisting of multiple units, each under individual ownership of the space
contained within each unit and co-ownership of the remaining real property by
the individual owners as tenants in common, subject to certain joint agreements
and regulations.
      E.   “Construction site” means location where construction is taking
place on a continuous basis.
      F.   “Convalescent home” means a structure or premises in which care is
provided for two or more invalid, infirm, aged, convalescent, or physically
disabled or injured persons. Nursing homes are convalescent homes.
      G.   “Cul-de-sac” means a dead-end street with circular turnaround.
   4.   Words beginning with “D.”
      A.   “Day care center” means the facilities of any dwelling, institution
or organization which are used in the temporary care of six children or more at
any one time.
      B.   “Deck” means a raised structure attached or unattached to a house,
made out of wood or synthetic material and covered or uncovered.
      C.   “District” means a section or sections of the area of the City for
which regulations governing the use of structures and premises or the height
and area of structures are uniform.
      D.   “Dormitory” means a structure providing sleeping quarters for a
number of people.
      E.   “Drive-through establishment” means any part of a business
designated to be used by persons in vehicles to conduct transactions from their
vehicles.
      F.   “Dwelling” means a structure used in whole or in part for human
habitation.
      G.   “Dwelling, multi-family” means a structure containing three or more
dwelling units. For example, condominiums and apartment complexes.
      H.   “Dwelling, single-family” means a structure containing one dwelling
unit.
      I.   “Dwelling, two-family” means a structure containing two dwelling
units. For example, a duplex.
      J.   Dwelling unit” means one or more rooms arranged, designed, and used
as living quarters for one family only. Individual bathrooms and complete
kitchen facilities, permanently installed, shall always be included. A
manufactured home or a modular home are acceptable dwelling units.
   5.   Words beginning with “E.”
      A.   “Essential services” means the erection, construction, alteration,
or maintenance, by public utilities or municipal or other governmental
agencies, or underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water
transmission or distribution systems, collection, communication, supply, or
disposal systems, including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes,
conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals,
hydrants, and other similar equipment and accessories in connection therewith;
reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by such public
utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies or for the public health
or safety or general welfare, but not including structures.
   6.   Words beginning with “F.”
      A.   “Family” means one person or two or more persons occupying a living
unity as an individual housekeeping organization.
      B.   “Farm” means a tract of land which is used for the growing of
vegetables, fruits, and grains, or for the raising of domestic poultry and
animals. The term “farming” includes the operating of such area for one or more
of the above uses and for such necessary accessory uses as treating or storing
the produce, provided, however, that any such accessory uses shall be secondary
to the normal farming activities and that such accessory uses do not include
the commercial feeding of animals or poultry in confined lots or structures.
      C.   “Feedlot” means the feeding or raising of livestock, poultry, or
other animals in confined feedlots, dry lots, pens, cages, or structures as a
commercial enterprise not in conjunction with a farming operation.
      D.   “Floor area” means the total square feet of any one floor area
within the outside line of walls of a structure. Floor area shall not include
porches, garages, or space in a basement which is used for storage or
incidental use.
      E.   “Frontage” means the area of a lot or parcel fronting a public road.
   7.   Words beginning with “G.”
      A.   “Garage, private” means an accessory structure designed or used for
storing motor-driven vehicles, recreational vehicles, trailers, boats,
furniture, or other miscellaneous personal property.
      B.   “Grade” means the average level of the finished surface of the
ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the structure. However, when any wall
approximately parallels and is not more than five feet from a street line, then
the average elevation of the street along that wall shall be grade.
   8.   Words beginning with “H.”
      A.   “Height of a structure” means the vertical distance from the grade
to the highest point of the roof.
      B.   “Home occupation” means an occupation, profession, activity or use
that is clearly a customary, incidental, and secondary of a residential
dwelling unit, and which does not alter the exterior of the property of affect
the residential character of the neighborhood.
      C.   “Hotel” means a structure occupied as the more or less transient
abiding place of individuals who are lodged with or without meals and in which
sleeping rooms are usually occupied.
   9.   Words beginning with “I.”
      A.   “IDOT” means the Iowa Department of Transportation.
      B.   “Industry, heavy” means any heavy manufacturing or industrial
processing, which by nature of the materials, equipment and process utilized
cannot eliminate entirely objectionable features and influences but which,
nevertheless, must be provided for somewhere in the urban area.
      C.   “Industry, light” means any light manufacturing or industrial
processing, which by nature of the materials, equipment, and process utilized
are to a considerable measure clean, quiet, and free of any objectionable or
hazardous element.
   10.   Words beginning with “J.”
      A.   “Junkyard” or “salvage yard” mean an open area on any lot or parcel
of land which is used for storage, abandonment, or keeping of junk, including
scrap metals or scrap materials, or for the abandonment or dismantling of
machinery, motor vehicles, or other vehicles or parts.
   11.   Words beginning with “K.”
   12.   Words beginning with “L.”
      A.   “Landing” means the space at the top of a flight of stairs.
      B.   “Lot” means a parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet
minimum zoning requirements for use and area, and to provide such yards and
other open spaces as are herein required. Such lot shall have frontage on an
improved public street, or on an approved private street.
      C.   “Lot area” means the area of a horizontal place, bounded by the
front, side, and rear lot lines.
      D.   “Lot, corner” means a lot abutting upon two or more streets at their
intersection.
      E.   “Lot depth” means the distance from the front lot line to the rear
lot line. In the case of a lot of irregular shape, the maximum depth shall be
the lot depth.
      F.   “Lot, interior” means an interior lot is any other lot than a corner
lot.
      G.   “Lot line, front” means that lot line which is opposite and most
distance from the rear lot line. In the case of an interior lot, abutting on
only one street, the front of the lot is the street side. In the case of any
other lot, it may be such street side as is elected by the owner to be the
front of the lot for the purpose of this chapter.
      H.   “Lot line, rear” means that lot line which is opposite and most
distant from the front lot line.
      I.   “Lot line, side” means any lot line, not a front lot line, or a rear
lot line.
      J.   “Lot of record” means a lot or parcel of land, the deed to which has
been recorded in the office of the County Recorder prior to the adoption of
this Zoning Code.† 12
      K.   “Lot through” means a lot running through the block from street to
street.
      L.   “Lot width” means the distance between the side lot lines. In the
case of a lot of irregular shape, the maximum width shall be the lot width.
   13.   Words beginning with “M”
      A.   “Manufactured home” means a factory-built structure built under
authority of 42 USC Section 5403 and is required by federal law to display a
seal from the U S Department of Housing and Urban Development, with a
manufactured date not exceeding 20 years from the present date.
      B.   “Mobile home” means a structure so constructed as to permit it to be
moved and shall include non-self-propelled vehicles so designed, constructed,
reconstructed or added to by means of an enclosed addition or room in such a
manner as will permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling or sleeping place for
one or more persons, having no permanent foundation and supported by wheels,
jacks or similar supports. Minimum size of structure must be 12’ x 50’. (Also
see Section
165.20(32)(E)).
      C.   “Mobile home converted to real estate” means a mobile home which has
been attached to a permanent foundation on real estate owned by the mobile home
owner, which has had the vehicular form modified or destroyed, rendering it
impossible to reconvert to a mobile home and which has been inspected by the
Assessor, the mobile home title, registration, and license plates collected
from the owner and the property entered on the County tax rolls.
      D.   “Mobile home park” means any site, lot, field, or tract of land upon
which three or more mobile homes, manufactured homes, or modular homes or a
combination of any of these homes which are placed on developed spaces and
operated as a for-profit enterprise with water, sewer or septic, and electrical
services available.
      E.   “Modular home” means a factory-built structure built on a permanent
chassis which is manufactured to be used as a place of human habitation and is
constructed to comply with the Iowa State Building Code for Modular Factory-
Built Structures and must display the seal issued by the State Building Code
Commissioner.
(Code of Iowa, Section 435.1)
      F.   “Motel” means a permanent structure or group of structures designed
or arranged primarily for temporary occupancy, so laid out as to provide off-
street parking on the same lot for parking vehicles used by the traveling
public. Such structure or group of structures may include living quarters for
the use of operating the commercial facility.
   14.   Words beginning with “N.”
      A.   “Nonconforming use” means any structure or land lawfully used at the
time of the effective date of this Zoning Code which does not conform with the
regulations of the district in which it is situated.
   15.   Words beginning with “O.”
   16.   Words beginning with “P.”
      A.   “Parking space” means a surfaced area connected to a public street
or alley by a driveway and permanently reserved for the parking or storage of
one motor vehicle.
      B.   “Personal services” means any enterprise conducted for gain which
primarily offers services to the general public such as shoe repair, valet
service, watch repairing, barber shops, beauty parlors, and related activities.
      C.   “Planning and zoning commission” means the Planning and Zoning
Commission of the City, as authorized by Chapter 23 of this Code of Ordinances.
      D.   “Porch” means a roofed platform forming the entrance to a house.
      E.   “Professional offices” means the use of offices and related spaces
for such professional services such as, but not limited to, provided by
doctors, dentists, lawyers, architects, engineers, and realtors.
      F.   “Public use” means any structure or land maintained or operated by
governmental entities.
   17.   Words beginning with “Q.”
   18.   Words beginning with “R.”
      A.   “Recreational facilities” means country clubs, riding stables, golf
courses, and other recreation areas, facilities, or recreation centers.
   19.   Words beginning with “S.”
      A.   “Setback” means the required distance between a lot line and the
closest wall of a conforming structure on the lot.
      B.   “Sign” means a name, identification, description, display, or
illustration which is affixed to, painted or represented, directly or
indirectly, upon a building, structure, parcel or lot, and which directs
attention to an object, product, place, activity, person, institution,
organization, or business.
      C.   “Social activity use” means any structure and land used for private
or semi-private club activities, including lodges, fraternities, and similar
activities.
      D.   “Special exception” means a use not in specific conformity with the
provisions of this Zoning Code.
      E.   “Street” means a public right-of-way which affords a primary means
of access to the property. An alley is not a street in this Zoning Code.
      F.   “Street side” means the edge of a lot which is adjacent to a public
right-of-way.
      G.   “Structures” means anything constructed, erected, or built, the use
of which requires more or less permanent location on the ground and designed
for the support, enclosure, shelter, or protection of persons, animals,
chattels, or property of any kind, including but without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, installations such as signs, billboards, radio
towers, and other facilities not designed for storage of property or occupancy
by persons. This does not include sidewalks and driveways or structures smaller
than six feet by six feet in area. Any structure intended primarily for human
occupancy or use, and not a carport, deck, or succah as defined in this
chapter, and not a gazebo as commonly defined, shall consist of a permanent
foundation, permanent walls, and a roof.
      H.   “Succah” means a temporary external dwelling built and inhabited by
Jewish people for the purpose of celebrating the religious holiday of Succoth.
The holiday of Succoth starts on the 15th day from Rosh Hashana and lasts for
nine days. This symbolic dwelling place typically consists of three to four
walls, deliberately lacking a permanent roof. Instead of erecting a roof, the
succah is covered with items such as pine branches, bamboo, or other similar
materials. The building of the succah may begin 30 days before the start of the
holiday of Succoth, and the succah must be dismantled no later than 30 days
after the holiday of Succoth ends.
      I.   “Structural alteration” See “alterations.”
   20.   Words beginning with “T.”
      A.   “Trailer camp” or “tourist campground” means any area providing
spaces for two or more travel trailers, motor homes, RVs, camping trailers, or
tent sites for temporary occupancy with necessary incidental services,
sanitation, and recreation facilities to serve the traveling public.
      B.   “Travel trailer” or “camping trailer” means a vehicle with or
without motive power used or so manufactured or constructed as to permit its
being used as a conveyance upon the public streets and highways and so designed
to permit the vehicle to be used as a place of human habitation by one or more
persons. Such vehicle shall be customarily or ordinarily used for vacation or
recreation purposes.
   21.   Words beginning with “U.”
   22.   Words beginning with “V.”
      A.   “Variance” means a relaxation of the terms of the Zoning Code,
authorized only for height, area and size of structure or size of yards and
open spaces, where such relaxation will not be contrary to the public interest
and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of
the actions of the applicant, a literal unnecessary and undue hardship.
Establishment or expansion of a use otherwise prohibited shall not be allowed
by variance, nor shall a variance by granted because of the presence of non-
conformities in the zoning district or uses in an adjoining zoning district.
   23.   Words beginning with “W.”
   24.   Words beginning with “X.”
   25.   Words beginning with “Y.”
      A.   “Yard” means an open space on the same lot with a structure
unobstructed from the ground upward and measured as the horizontal distance
between the lot line and main structure.
      B.   “Yard, front” means a yard extending across the front of a lot
between the side lot lines and measured between the front lot line and the main
structure or any projection other than the projection of the usual steps,
cornices, eaves, gutters, or chimney.
      C.   “Yard, rear” means a yard extending across the rear of the lot
between the side lot lines and measured between the rear lot line and the rear
of the main structure or any projection other than steps, unenclosed porches,
entrance ways, cornices, eaves, gutters, or chimney.
      D.   “Yard, required rear” means an area measurement determined by
multiplying the rear yard setback requirement times the width of the lot. Said
area is located at the very rear of the lot and extends across the entire width
of the lot.
      E.   “Yard, side” means a yard between the main structure and the side
lot line and extending from the front yard to the rear yard and being the
horizontal distance between a side lot line and the side of the main structure
or any projections. This applies to all decks, screened and unscreened porches,
chimneys, stoops, and any other addition to the structure, portable or
otherwise.
   26.   Words beginning with “Z.”
 
Notes
12 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 696-21, adopting the Zoning Code of the City, was
   passed and adopted on November 8, 2021.
165.07   ADMINISTRATION.
For the purpose of this Zoning Code, the Administrative Officer, shall
administer and enforce the provisions of this Zoning Code. Decisions of the
Administrative Officer may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment.
165.08   COMPLIANCE PERMITS.
   1.   Construction Compliance Permit shall be obtained from the
Administrative Officer before:
      A.   Any construction begins.
      B.   Any structure is reconstructed or structurally altered to increase
the exterior dimensions, height or floor area, or changes to interior load
bearing members.
      C.   Any structure is remodeled to increase the number of dwelling units.
      D.   Any structure accommodates a change in use of the structure or land.
      E.   Any structure is moved.
      F.   Any structure is demolished.
      G.   Any structure is constructed or altered in the fire zone. (See
Chapter 164).
   2.   A Construction Compliance Permit shall not be required for:
      A.   Maintenance items such as a new roof, chimney, siding, doors, and
other repair items which do not enlarge the structure.
      B.   Construction or maintenance of driveways and private sidewalks. A
property owner wishing to lower the level of the street curb shall apply to the
Council for such.
   3.   Blank application forms shall be provided by the Administrative Officer
for the use of those applying for permits as provided in this Zoning Code. Any
permits issued by the Administrative Officer shall be on standard forms for
such purpose and shall be furnished by the City.
   4.   Every application for a Construction Compliance Permit shall be in
writing and delivered to the Administrative Officer and shall be accompanied by
a detailed set of plans and specifications showing the size of the proposed
structure or use. Using property lot lines, show its location on the lot, the
material of which it is to be constructed, and details and type of construction
to be used.
   5.   A permit in writing shall be issued or denied by the Administrative
Officer within 15 working days. A permit shall be issued when the application
and investigation thereof indicate compliance by the applicant with all the
provisions of this Code and the laws of the State. The Administrative Officer
may seek legal counsel.
   6.   Upon issuance of a Construction Compliance Permit, payment of a fee
shall be made to the City in accordance with the fee schedule outlined in
Section
165.33.
   7.   On the issuance of a permit, one set of said plans and specifications
shall be retained by the Administrative Officer, one set as a permanent record
on file at the Clerk’s office, and one set returned to the applicant.
   8.   If, after reviewing the application, the Administrative Officer finds
that the structure in the proposed location does not comply with the provisions
of this chapter, they shall furnish the applicant with a statement refusing to
issue such permit and setting forth the reason for such refusal. The refusal by
the Administrative Officer to issue a permit may be appealed by the applicant
to the Board of Adjustment in accordance with Section
165.13.
   9.   Construction Compliance Permits shall expire one year after the date of
issue and no work or operation shall take place under such permit after
expiration. However, an applicant may be issued a Construction Compliance
Permit or location permit that would expire 18 months after the date of issue
by paying a fee equal to 150 percent of the regular fee for that type of
project. If an applicant desires a permit for a period longer than 18 months,
then the Zoning Administrator can determine a permit period and a prorated fee
based on the rate schedule. (For example, the Administrative Officer may issue
a permit to expire in two years, and the fee shall be two times the one-year
rate for that type of project.)
   10.   If a project is not completed within the permit period, an application
may be submitted for renewal of the permit for one year. The fee to be assessed
for renewal of the permit shall be two times the one-year rate for the original
project.
   11.   Any changes made to the original plans and specifications require a
new permit.
165.09   LOCATION PERMIT.
A location permit shall be required for the location of a mobile home and
location of fences, signs and continuous planted shrubbery or hedges and
prebuilt structures larger than six feet by six feet. A location permit shall
be issued upon payment of a fee to the City in accordance with the fee schedule
outlined in Section
165.33.
165.10   ENFORCEMENT.
The Administrative Officer shall be charged with the responsibility of
enforcing the provisions of this Zoning Code. They shall make periodic
inspections, review complaints, and perform such other tasks necessary to
ensure compliance with the provisions of the Zoning Code. In the event there is
a violation of this Zoning Coe, the Administrative Officer shall issue a
written order in person or by mail to the violator or the property owner
indicating the nature of the violation.
165.11   PENALTIES.
   1.   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects, or refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this Zoning Code shall be guilty of a simple misdemeanor
filed by the Administrative Officer or law enforcement personnel.
   2.   As an alternate or additional remedy to a violation, the Administrative
Officer has authority to seek an injunction.
   3.   In the event that there is any violation of this Zoning Code which, in
the opinion of the Administrative Officer or the legally constituted officials
of the City, jeopardizes the health, safety, or welfare of the people, said
officials shall remove, restrict, terminate, or otherwise prevent such
violation from continuing and shall levy such costs incurred in this action
against the violator or property owners.
   4.   As an alternate remedy to violations of these provisions, the
Administrative Officer may issue citations for municipal infraction.
165.12   SUBDEVELOPMENT.
Subdivision or development of any area within the City shall comply with the
Subdivision Regulations Chapter 170.
165.13   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   1.   Creation and Appointment. In compliance with the provisions of the Code
of Iowa, a Board of Adjustment has been established. The Board shall consist of
five members appointed by the Mayor, subject to confirmation by the Council.
Terms shall be five years. Any vacancy shall be filled in the same manner for
the unexpired portion of the term. In the event of an absence from the City or
in the incapacity of a member, the Mayor may appoint a substitute who shall
serve as a member of the Board, with the same powers and authority as the
regular member, until such regular member has returned.
   2.   Rules of Procedure. The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall have the
following rules of procedure:
      A.   Compensation. All members shall serve without compensation, except
for actual expenses, which shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
      B.   The Chairperson of the Board may appoint one of the members of the
Board to act as Secretary for the meeting. The Board shall have the power to
call on any City department or officer for assistance in the performance of its
duties, and it shall be the duty of such department or officer to render such
assistance as may reasonably be required. The Board shall also receive and
consider recommendations submitted by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      C.   The Board may adopt, from time to time, subject to the approval of
the Council, such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary to carry into
effect the provisions of this Zoning Code.
      D.   The Board shall annually elect its own Chairperson at the first
meeting on or after January 1 of each year. Such Chairman, or in their absence,
the acting Chairperson may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses. There shall be a fixed place of meeting and all meetings shall be
open to the public. The presence of three members shall be necessary to
constitute a quorum. The concurring vote of the three members shall be
necessary on all matters upon which it is required to pass under the provisions
of this Zoning Code.
      E.   Motions may be made by anyone on the Board except the Chairperson.
The Chairperson will restate the motion before a vote is taken.
      F.   Voting will be by roll call and will be recorded by yeas and nays.
Every member of the Board, including the Chairperson, is required to cast a
vote upon each motion. However, a member may abstain if the member believes
there is a conflict of interest, particularly if the conflict is of a financial
nature. A member asserting a conflict of interest shall inform the board
immediately upon introduction of the subject upon which the member has a
conflict and shall not participate in deliberation or voting upon the matter.
      G.   The Secretary shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the
vote of each member upon each question. If a member is absent or fails to vote,
the minutes shall indicate such fact. The Board shall keep records of its
examination and other official actions, which shall be on file in the Office of
the Clerk as a public record.
      H.   The concurring vote of three members of the Board shall be necessary
to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the
Administrative Officer or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter
upon which it is required to pass under this Zoning Code; or to affect any
variation of this Zoning Code. On all appeals, applications, and other matters
brought before the Board, said Board shall inform, in writing, all the parties
involved of its decisions, and the reasons, therefore.
      I.   The Board of Adjustment shall comply with the open meetings law.
   3.   Appeals, Hearing, and Notice.
      A.   Any person, group, or organization, public or private, affected by
the requirements of this Zoning Code may appeal to the Board of Adjustment.
Said appeal shall be made on an official appeal form to the Administrative
Officer specifying the nature of the appeal, and containing a diagram showing
the names and addresses of all property owners within a 150-foot radius to the
affected property. The fee for filing an appeal shall be $100.00 and shall be
paid at the time of filing.
      B.   The Administrative Officer shall review the appeal for accuracy and
compliance and shall transmit to the Board the original copy of the appeal and
all other papers constituting the record on which the appeal is being based. A
copy of the appeal for a special exception shall also be transmitted to the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
      C.   Upon receipt of the appeal and all other papers, the Board shall fix
the time, place, and purpose of the public hearing and shall proceed with the
publication of a notice in a paper of general circulation in the City and shall
notify, by certified mail, all the property owners indicated on the
application. No public hearing shall be held within 24 hours after publication
of notice of public hearing.
      D.   Prior to a final determination or decision on the appeal for a
special exception, the Board shall receive and consider the recommendation of
the Planning and Zoning Commission. The final disposition of any appeal after
public hearing shall be in the form of a resolution by the Board either
reversing, modifying, or affirming the decision or determination appealed from.
A copy of such resolution shall be filed with the Administrative Officer and
the Planning and Zoning Commission. The decision on the appeal by the Board
shall be made within 45 days after the filing of the appeal to the
Administrative Officer.
      E.   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any
decision of the Board under the provisions of this Zoning Code, or any taxpayer
or any officer, department, board, or bureau of the City may seek relief
through the courts as provided by the Code of Iowa within 180 days of the Board
of Adjustment ruling.
   4.   Stay of Procedures. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the Board after the notice of appeal shall have been filed that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would in their opinion cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed other than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board of
Adjustment or by a court of record on application or notice to the officer from
whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
   5.   Powers and Duties. The Board of Adjustment shall have the following
powers and duties:
      A.   Administrative Review. To hear and decide appeals where it is
alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Administrative Officer in the enforcement of this Zoning Code.
      B.   Special Exception.
         (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide only such special
exceptions as the Board is specifically authorized to pass on by the terms of
this Zoning Code; to grant special exceptions with such conditions and
safeguards as are appropriate under this Zoning Code providing that the
granting of the special exception will not adversely affect the public
interest; or to deny special exceptions when not in harmony with the purpose
and intent of this Zoning Code.
         (2)   Application shall be pursuant to the provisions of this Zoning
Code and the rules and procedure of the Board of Adjustment. After
consideration of the Planning and Zoning Commission’s recommendation, the Board
of Adjustment shall grant or deny the special exception request. Upon granting
the request, the Board shall authorize the issuance of a construction permit.
The Board of Adjustment may prescribe and impose appropriate conditions and
safeguards. The Board may prescribe a time limit within which the activity or
construction requiring the special exception shall be commenced or completed.
Failure to commence or complete such activity or construction within the time
limit set shall void the special exception. Violation of such conditions and
safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the special use is
granted, shall be deemed a violation of this Code and shall be punishable under
Section
165.11.
      C.   Variances.
         (1)   As used in this Zoning Code, a variance is authorized only for
height, area, and size of structure or size of yards and open spaces.
         (2)   Upon application, pursuant to the provisions of this Zoning Code
and the rules and procedure of the Board of Adjustment, said Board shall grant
or refuse a variance from the terms of this Zoning Code. Such variance shall
not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a
literal enforcement of the provision of the Zoning Code will, in an individual
case, result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship, so that the
purpose of the Zoning Code shall be observed, public safety and welfare
secured, and substantial justice done. The existence of a nonconforming use of
neighboring land or structures in the same districts or of permitted or
nonconforming uses in other districts shall not constitute a reason for the
request variance. Recommendation from the Planning and Zoning Commission is not
required.
      D.   Variances may be granted in such individual case of unnecessary
hardship upon a finding by the Board of Adjustment that any of the following
conditions exist:
         (1)   There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to
the particular property in question because of its size, shape, or topography
that are not applicable to other lands or structures in the same district.
         (2)   Literal interpretation of the Zoning Code would result in unjust
financial hardship to a previously established business or industry.
         (3)   Granting the variance requested will not confer upon the
applicant any special privileges that are denied to other residents of the
district in which the property is located.
         (4)   A literal interpretation of the provisions of this Zoning Code
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other residents of
the district in which the property is located.
         (5)   The requested variance will be in harmony with the purpose and
intent of this Zoning Code and will not be injurious to or alter the essential
character of the neighborhood and the general welfare.
         (6)   The special circumstances are not the result of the actions of
the applicant.
         (7)   The variance requested is the minimum variance that will make
possible the legal use of the land or structure.
         (8)   The variance is not a request to permit the use of land or
structure w which is not permitted in the district involved.
      E.   A variance shall be void after six months unless a construction
permit is secured.
   6.   Classification. To classify commercial and industrial uses not
specifically designated in this Zoning Code.
   7.   These powers cannot be further limited nor expanded at the local level.
Neither can they be assumed in whole or in part by another body such as the
Planning and Zoning Commission or Council. The decision of the Board of
Adjustment is final unless it is appealed to the district court.
165.14   ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
The City is hereby divided into districts:
   1.   A-1 Agricultural
   2.   R-2 Residential - Single Family Dwelling
   3.   R-2 General Residential District
   4.   R-3 Manufactured or Mobile Home Communities
   5.   C-1 Commercial Central Business District
   6.   C-2 Highway Commercial
   7.   I-1 Light Industrial
   8.   I-2 Heavy Industrial
165.15   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
The provisions of this Zoning Code shall apply within the corporate limits of
the City as now or hereafter fixed. District boundaries are shown on the
“Official Zoning Map of the City of Postville, Iowa” said map being as much a
part of this Zoning Code as if fully described herein. Where uncertainty exists
as to boundaries, the following rules shall apply:
   1.   Where districts are bounded approximately by street or alley lines, the
centerline of streets or alleys shall be construed to be the boundaries.
   2.   Where districts are bounded approximately by lot lines, said lot lines
shall be construed to be the boundaries.
   3.   Where districts are not bounded approximately by either streets,
alleys, or lots, boundaries shall be determined by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   4.   Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is officially vacated,
the zoning district on either side shall be automatically extended to the
centerline of said vacation.
165.16   EXTENT OF REGULATIONS WITHIN EACH DISTRICT.
Except as hereinafter provided:
   1.   No structure shall be erected, moved, converted, demolished,
reconstructed, or enlarged, nor shall any structure or land be used except in
conformance with the provisions of this Zoning Code. Also see Section
165.08.
   2.   No lot area shall be so reduced or diminished that the yards or other
open spaces shall be smaller than prescribed by this Zoning Code, nor shall any
required yard have any structure or use placed within it, except as hereinafter
specified, nor shall any required yard or open space be considered as providing
yard or open space for any other structure, portable or otherwise. Lots of
record existing at the time of the adoption of this Zoning Code may be used in
accordance with regulations of each district and provided that all front, side,
and rear yards are met. Also see Section
165.28(5).
165.17   A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   1.   Statement of Intent. The A-1 District is intended and designed to
preserve and protect those agricultural and undeveloped lands within the City
that are not expected to develop in urban uses in the immediate future.
   2.   Permitted Uses and Required Parking.
Permitted Principal Uses and Structures Minimum Off-Street Parking
Permitted Principal Uses and Structures Minimum Off-Street Parking
Cemeteries                              20 spaces which may be located on
                                        interior drives
Churches                                1 space for every 5 seats in the main
                                        auditorium
Essential services                      None
Farms, agricultural uses, orchards,     None
nurseries, gardens, and greenhouses
Golf courses, county clubs, driving     3 spaces per green or 1 space for every
ranges, swimming pools, and tennis      100 square feet of clubhouse floor
courts                                  area, whichever is greater
Public uses                             5 spaces for each acre developed for
                                        active usage
Railroads                               None
Single family dwellings                 2 spaces
Social activity uses                    5 spaces for each acre developed for
                                        active use
 
   3.   Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures.
      A.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the
permitted principal uses or structures of this district, not involving the
conduct of business on the premises, except home occupations located on the
same lot or a contiguous lot under the same ownership.
      B.   Farm structures incidental to agricultural uses.
      C.   Private garages, carports, swimming pools, and tennis courts not
operated for commercial purposes.
      D.   Temporary structures and equipment used in conjunction with
construction work, provided that such structures and equipment are removed
promptly upon completion of the construction work.
      E.   Roadside stands for the sale of produce raised on the premises.
   4.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. Subject to Section
165.12 and other requirements contained herein, the Board of Adjustment may
permit the following:
      A.   Agricultural service businesses that produce no offensive noise,
vibration, smoke, dust, odor, heat, glare, or electrical interference
detectable within the limits of the nearest dwelling other than that of the
owner or operators and that one parking space for each employee and one space
for each vehicle used by the business and seven customer parking spaces be
provided.
      B.   Concrete or asphalt mixing or batching plants for temporary use
during construction, repair, or maintenance of public roads, highways, or other
public facilities, provided that the area be restored to a suitable condition
free of refuse or debris.
      C.   Mining, quarrying, lumbering, and extraction of minerals raw
materials including facilities for storing and transporting such materials;
provided that such use shall not adversely affect surrounding properties; that
one parking space for each employee and each vehicle used by the operation be
provided; that prior approval of the special exception plan be submitted to and
approved by the Board of Adjustment for restoration of the area to a condition
compatible with the surrounding area upon conclusion of the operation.
      D.   Tourist campground provided that water and sewage disposal systems
are approved by the City or County Board of Health; drives shall have all-
weather surface; that no campsite is closer than 50 feet to any property line;
and that five parking spaces plus one for each campsite be provided.
      E.   Animal hospital or clinic with one parking space per employee plus
four additional spaces.
      F.   Airports with one parking space per employee plus one space per
hanger space.
      G.   Commercial roadside stands with three parking spaces.
      H.   Home occupations.
      I.   Height Limitations Greater than 35 Feet. Any structures higher than
35 feet shall require their own fire protection system in accordance with State
Fire Marshal recommendations.
   5.   Bulk Regulations.
Maximum Height
All structures       35 feet
Minimum Lot Area
All lots             40,000 square feet
Minimum Lot Width
All lots             200 feet
Required Setbacks (Minimums)
Front Yard           25 feet
Rear Yard            30 feet
Side Yard            8 feet*
Side Yard Corner Lot 25 feet
*When a lot is adjoining a residential use or residential zoned lot the side
yard setback shall be a minimum of 25 feet.
   6.   Poultry, livestock, or fur bearing animals shall be kept a minimum
distance of 1,000 feet from the nearest residential development. This does not
apply to the usual keeping of household pets not for commercial use.
165.18   R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   1.   Statement of Intent. The R-1 Single Family Residential District is
intended to include areas of lower density residential development where
utilities are presently available, and areas suitable for future residential
development where utility service can be reasonably extended contiguous to
existing development within the corporate limits. No structures shall be
constructed or placed within the 25-foot setback on a street side. This does
not include usual steps.
   2.   Permitted Uses and Required Parking.
 
Permitted Principal Uses and Structures Minimum Off-Street Parking
Essential services                      None
Single family dwellings                 2 spaces
 
   3.   Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures.
      A.   Uses and structures clearly incidental to the permitted principal
uses or structures of this district, not involving the conduct of business on
the premises.
      B.   Private garages, carports, swimming pools, tennis courts, gardens,
and greenhouses not operated for commercial purposes.
      C.   Temporary structures and equipment used in conjunction with
construction work, provided that such structures and equipment are removed
promptly upon completion of the construction work.
      D.   A detached structure shall be located a minimum of four feet from
the principal structure. Accessory structures shall not be larger than the area
of any one floor of the main or principal structure.
      E.   Structures attached to the principal structure shall be considered
part of the principal structure for setback purposes and shall conform to the
same front, side, and rear setback yard regulations.
      F.   No accessory structures shall be erected in the front yard.
      G.   Accessory structures shall not exceed or occupy more than 50 percent
of the square footage of the required rear yard.
      H.   Industrial containers and other enclosures not consistent with the
residential intent of this district shall not be permitted as accessory
structures in this zoning district. This includes, but is not limited to,
shipping containers of any size, tractor trailers of any size used for storage
regardless of whether or not the trailer is mobile, or similar enclosures that
were not originally intended for residential use.
   4.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. Subject to Section 165.13(5) and
other requirements contained herein, the Board of Adjustment may permit the
following:
      A.   Utility Systems and Substations. Utility systems and substations,
but not including equipment storage structures or yards or administrative or
sales offices, provided that any substation shall meet the front and rear yard
requirements for dwellings and shall provide side yards of not less than 20
feet.
      B.   Parks and Recreation Areas. Five off-street parking spaces for each
one acre developed for active usage.
      C.   Home Occupations.
   5.   Bulk Regulations.
Maximum Height
All structures                         35 feet
Minimum Lot Area
All lots                               8,000 square feet
Minimum Lot Width
All lots                               60 feet or 45 feet Minimum width on the
                                       eye of the cul-de-sac
Required Setbacks (Minimums)*
Front Yard                             25 feet
Rear Yard                              30 feet
Side Yard                              8 feet**
Side Yard Corner Lot                   25 feet
Accessory Use or Structures
Portable or otherwise erected inside   8 feet
yards
Accessory structures wholly within the 2 feet
rear yard
Accessory structures rear lot lines    4 feet
unless it is on a street side
*A structure (garage) with vehicle access onto a street or alley shall have a
minimum 15-foot set-back from the property lines.
**When a lot is adjoining a residential use or residential zoned lot the side
yard setback shall be a minimum of 25 feet.
 
   6.   Special Requirements.
      A.   The R-1 District shall observe the fencing and shrubbery
requirements as prescribed in Section
165.26.
      B.   All new principal structures placed in R-1 Districts shall have a
minimum length of 24 feet on all sides of the structure. For this requirement,
porches, garages, and accessory buildings, which are otherwise permitted by
this section, are not included.
      C.   Any materials used for principal or accessory structures shall be
acceptable to a residential district. Corrugated fiberglass panels are
permissible only for greenhouses and skylights. Galvanized metal is not a
permissible building material. Steel or fiberglass siding used in agricultural
or commercial construction is not a permissible building material for
residential siding. Also, roofing material of any nature is not permissible
building material for residential siding. For unattached accessory buildings,
nongalvanized steel may be used for siding and roofs.
      D.   Any structure not placed on a permanent foundation shall be anchored
in a permanent location and comply with setback requirements.
165.19   R-2 GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   1.   Statement of Intent. The R-2 General Residential District is intended
to accommodate single and multi-family residential development at a moderately
greater density than the R-1 District. It is generally limited to already
developed areas but may be expanded to include appropriate areas for new
development of low-cost or multi-family housing within the corporate limits. No
structures shall be constructed or placed within the 25-foot setback on a
street side. This does not include usual steps.
   2.   Permitted Uses and Required Parking.
 
Permitted Principal Uses and Structures Minimum Off-Street Parking
Any structure or use specifically       See R-1
permitted in R-1 District
Churches                                1 space for every 5 seats in the main
                                        auditorium
Essential services                      None
Manufactured home for single-family     2 spaces
dwellings
Parks and recreation areas not operated 5 spaces for each acre developed for
for profit                              active usage
 
   3.   Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures.
      A.   Uses and structures clearly incidental to the permitted principal
uses or structures of this district, not involving the conduct of business on
the premises.
      B.   Private garages, carports, swimming pools, tennis courts, gardens,
and greenhouses not operated for commercial purposes.
      C.   Temporary structures and equipment used in conjunction with
construction work, provided that such structures and equipment are removed
promptly upon completion of the construction work.
      D.   A detached structure shall be located a minimum of four feet from
the principal structure. Accessory structures shall not be larger than the area
of any one floor of the main or principal structure.
      E.   Structures attached to the principal structure shall be considered
part of the principal structure for setback purposes and shall conform to the
same front, side, and rear setback yard regulations.
      F.   No accessory structures shall be erected in the front yard.
      G.   Accessory structures shall not exceed or occupy more than 50 percent
of the square footage of the required rear yard.
      H.   Industrial containers and other enclosures not consistent with the
residential intent of this district shall not be permitted as accessory
structures in this zoning district. This includes, but is not limited to,
shipping containers of any size, tractor trailers of any size used for storage
regardless of whether or not the trailer is mobile, or similar enclosures that
were not originally intended for residential use.
   4.   Subject to Section
165.13(5) and other requirements contained herein, the Board of Adjustment may
permit the following:
      A.   Sanitariums, rest, nursing, and convalescent homes; homes for
orphans and aged on sites of one acre or more. Off-street parking requirement
of one and a half spaces per unit.
      B.   Utility distribution systems and substations, but not including
equipment storage structures, yards, administrative or sales office, provided
that any substation shall meet the front and rear yard requirements for
dwellings and shall provide side yards of not less than 20 feet.
      C.   Schools, nursery schools, and day care centers provided that such
use will not adversely affect surrounding properties; that all necessary
precautions and safeguards be taken to minimize the non-residential character,
traffic, parking, and noise of the use and that minimum off-street parking be
provided as one space for each classroom and office plus one space for every
six seats in the main auditorium or stadium.
      D.   Social activities with one parking space for every 50 square feet of
floor area.
      E.   Home occupations.
      F.   Cemeteries with 20 parking spaces which may be located on interior
drives.
      G.   Rooming and boarding houses, bed and breakfast homes, and
dormitories with one off-street parking space per bed or suite.
      H.   Community meeting or recreation structures not operated for profit
with one off-street parking space for every 50 square feet of floor area.
      I.   Hospitals and medical, dental, and chiropractic clinics with one
off-street parking space for each physician, plus five additional spaces.
      J.   Funeral homes with one off-street parking space for every five seats
in the main chapel.
      K.   Public uses with five off-street parking spaces for each acre
developed for active usage.
      L.   Golf courses with three parking spaces per green or one space for
every 100 square feet of clubhouse floor area, whichever is greater.
      M.   Two-family dwellings, provided that there are two off-street parking
spaces per unit available; and also provided that the Planning and Zoning
Commission and the Board of Adjustment find that all City utilities and streets
would not be unduly burdened by allowing a two-family dwelling in the area
proposed.
      N.   Multi-family dwellings or apartment buildings, provided that one and
a half spaces of off-street parking per unit are available. It shall further be
required that the Planning and Zoning Commission and the Board of Adjustment
determine that City utilities and streets will not be unduly burdened by
allowing a multi-family dwelling or apartment house in the area requested; and
that the Planning and Zoning Commission and Board of Adjustment also determine
that adequate multi-family dwellings or apartment houses are not already
available with substantial vacancies.
   5.   Bulk Regulations.
Maximum Height
Dwellings              35 feet
Accessory structures   20 feet
Other uses             Per Board of Adjustment
Minimum Lot Area
Single-family dwelling 6,500 square feet
Two-family dwelling    10,000 square feet
Multi-family dwelling  11,500 square feet plus 1,500 square feet for each
                       additional unit greater than three
Other Uses Minimum Lot Width
Single-family dwelling 50 feet
Two-family dwelling    75 feet
Multi-family dwelling  75 feet
Other Uses Required Setbacks-Principal Use (Minimums)
Front Yard             25 feet
Rear Yard              30 feet
Side Yard              8 feet*
Side Yard Corner Lot   25 feet
Required Setbacks-Accessory Use (Minimums)
Front Yard             Not allowed
Rear Yard              4 feet*
Side Yard              8 feet*
*Unless the lot is on a side street. Unless wholly within the rear yard then 2
feet.
**A structure (garage) with vehicle access onto a street or alley shall have a
minimum 15-foot set-back from the property lines.
 
   6.   Special Requirements.
      A.   The R-2 District shall observe the fencing and shrubbery
requirements as prescribed in Section 165.26.
      B.   All new principal structures placed in R-2 Districts shall have a
minimum length of 24 feet on all sides of the structure. For this requirement
porches, garages, and accessory buildings, which are otherwise permitted by
this section, are not included.
      C.   Any materials used for principal or accessory structures shall be
acceptable to a residential district. Corrugated fiberglass panels are
permissible only for greenhouses and skylights. Galvanized metal is not a
permissible building material. Steel or fiberglass siding used in agricultural
or commercial construction is not a permissible building material for
residential siding. Also, roofing material of any nature is not permissible
building material for residential siding. For unattached accessory buildings,
non-galvanized steel may be used for siding and roofs.
      D.   Any structure not placed on a permanent foundation shall be anchored
in a permanent location and comply with setback requirements.
165.20   R-3 MANUFACTURED/MOBILE/COMPACT HOME COMMUNITIES.
   1.   Statement of Intent. The R-3 Manufactured/Mobile/Compact Home
Communities District is established to accommodate mobile home parks where
their use will be compatible with existing and indicated future development.
   2.   Definitions. The following definitions shall be applicable to the terms
used in this section.
      A.   Words beginning with “A.”
         (1)   “Accessory use” means a use incidental to the primary use of the
manufactured/mobile/compact home community such as direct service facility
building, community management building, maintenance building, community
buildings, or other uses of a similar nature.
         (2)   “Appurtenances” means an attached or detached addition to a
manufactured or mobile home, situated on the manufactured or mobile home lot
for the use of its occupants, such as decks, open or enclosed carports,
garages, storage sheds, or items of a similar nature.
      B.   Words beginning with “B.”
      C.   Words beginning with “C.”
         (1)   “Common area” means any area or space designed for joint use of
tenants occupying manufactured/mobile/compact home communities.
         (2)   “Compact home” means a single-family dwelling unit suitable for
year-round occupancy having no foundation other than wheels, jacks, piers,
grade beams or skirtings and containing water supply, waste disposal, heating,
and electrical conveniences with a minimum square footage of 250 square feet.
      D.   Words beginning with “D.”
         (1)   “Driveway” means a minor private way used by vehicles and
pedestrians on a manufactured/mobile/compact home lot.
      E.   Words beginning with “E.”
         (1)   “Electric receptacle” means the waterproof attachment receptacle
device located adjacent to the water and sewer outlets to receive the flexible
cable from the manufactured/mobile/compact home; or where required, the
permanently installed conductors.
         (2)   “Electric service drop” means that part of the electric
distribution system from the main electrical distribution system, overhead or
underground, to the service equipment serving one or more manufactured/mobile/
compact home spaces.
         (3)   “Existing installations” means those installations which were
constructed before the effective date of this ordinance.
      F.   Words beginning with “F.”
         (1)   “FEMA” means the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
         (2)   “Front” means the part of the manufactured/mobile/compact home
facing toward the approved street or right-of-way as required by this Code.
      G.   Words beginning with “G.”
      H.   Words beginning with “H.”
         (1)   “HUD” means the United Sates Department of Housing and Urban
Development.
      I.   Words beginning with “I.”
      J.   Words beginning with “J.”
      K.   Words beginning with “K.”
      L.   Words beginning with “L.”
      M.   words beginning with “M.”
         (1)   “Manufactured/mobile/compact home” means a transportable,
single-family dwelling unit suitable for year-round occupancy having no
foundation other than wheels, jacks, piers, grade beams, or skirtings and
containing water supply, waste disposal, heating, and electrical conveniences.
         (2)   “Manufactured/mobile/compact home community” means a parcel of
land under single ownership which has been planned and improved for the
placement of manufactured/mobile/compact homes for non-transient use.
         (3)   “Manufactured/mobile/compact home lot” means a parcel of land
for the placement of a single manufactured/mobile/compact home and the
exclusive use of its occupants.
         (4)   “Manufactured/mobile/compact home stand” means that part of an
individual manufactured/mobile/compact home lot which has been reserved for the
placement of the manufactured/mobile/compact home and any appurtenances
thereto.
         (5)   “Motorized home” means a portable dwelling designed and
constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled vehicle.
      N.   Words beginning with “N.”
         (1)   “New installations” means those which are proposed for
construction after the effective date of these rules and regulations.
      O.   Words beginning with “O.”
      P.   Words beginning with “P.”
         (1)   “Patio” means A surfaced outdoor living space designed to
supplement to a manufactured/mobile/compact home living area.
      Q.   Words beginning with “Q.”
      R.   Words beginning with “R.”
         (1)   “Roadway” means that portion of the manufactured/mobile/compact
home community street system that is surfaced for the actual travel or parking
of vehicles and including curbs. Surface shall be a hard, smooth, dust-free,
and weed-free surfacing (seal coat or equivalent surface).
      S.   Words beginning with “S.”
         (1)   “Sewer connection” means the connection consisting of all pipes,
fittings, and appurtenances from the drain outlet of the manufactured/mobile/
compact home to the inlet of the corresponding sewer riser pipe of the sewerage
system serving the manufactured or mobile home community.
         (2)   “Sewer riser pipe” means that portion of the sewer lateral which
extends vertically to the ground elevation and terminates at each manufactured/
mobile/compact home lot.
         (3)   “Skirting” means the materials and construction around the
perimeter of a manufactured/mobile/compact home floor between the bottom of the
manufactured/mobile/compact home floor and the grade level of the manufactured/
mobile/compact home stand.
      T.   Words beginning with “T.”
         (1)   “Tenant storage” means an area within part of the manufactured/
mobile/compact home community but not within an individual lot to provide
auxiliary general storage space.
         (2)   “Transient use” means the occupancy of a manufactured/mobile/
compact home lot by a manufactured/mobile/compact home for a period of 14 days
or less.
         (3)   “Travel trailer” means a vehicular, portable structure on a
chassis, designed to be used as a temporary dwelling.
      U.   Words beginning with “U.”
      V.   Words beginning with “V.”
      W.   Words beginning with “W.”
         (1)   “Water connection” means the connection consisting of all pipes
and fittings from the water riser pipe to the water inlet pipe of the
distribution system within the manufactured/ mobile/compact home.
         (2)   “Water riser pipe” means that portion of the water supply system
serving the manufactured/mobile/compact home community which extends vertically
to the ground elevation and terminates at a designated point at each
manufactured/mobile/compact home lot.
      X.   Words beginning with “X.”
      Y.   Words beginning with “Y.”
      Z.   Words beginning with “Z.”
   3.   Permitted Uses.
      A.   Single-family mobile homes.
      B.   Single-family manufactured homes.
      C.   Single-family compact homes.
      D.   Essential services.
      E.   Modular homes.
   4.   Compliance Required. Development or enlargement of a manufactured/
mobile/compact home community requires compliance with the provisions of
Chapter 170. The site, size, and area requirements set out in this section are
intended to be minimum standards to be met by the specific development plans
required under
Chapter 170.
   5.   Site Requirements.
      A.   The area proposed for a manufactured/mobile/compact home community
shall have at least 10 acres of gross development area or provide for a minimum
of 40 manufactured or mobile home lots.
      B.   A manufactured/mobile/compact home community may be developed in two
or more stages, provided that said stages conform in all respects with the
overall Manufactured/Mobile/Compact Home Community Development Plan as
described in Section
170.44. Occupancy shall not be permitted until all facilities and improvements
are installed and operational for not less than 25 manufactured/mobile/compact
home lots with all conditions of the required site plan being satisfied.
      C.   No manufactured/mobile/compact home shall be connected to water,
sewer, or electrical service unless the manufactured/mobile/compact home
complies with the standards and requirements prescribed by HUD Standards and
ANSI 119.1.
         (1)   Compliance with this standard shall be determined by the
Administrative Officer.
         (2)   A certificate issued by the manufacturer of the manufactured or
mobile home shall be permanently affixed on a readily visible location on the
exterior of the manufactured or mobile home prima facie evidence of such
compliance.
      D.   No compact home shall be connected to water, sewer, or electrical
services unless the compact home complies with the National Fire Protection
Association 1192 Standard on Recreational Vehicles or the American National
Standards Institute A119.5 Park Model Recreational Vehicle.
   6.   Area Requirements. Every lot upon which a manufactured/mobile/compact
home unit is located shall front onto an approved public or private street or
right-of-way as defined in this Code and shall conform to the following minimum
lot area and width requirements.
      A.   Residential Use. The lot area shall be a minimum of 5,500 square
feet, have a minimum dimension of 110 feet on its longest side, and a minimum
of 50-foot frontage on an approved public or private street or right-of-way and
not less than 15 feet in depth from back of curb.
      B.   Accessory Uses.
         (1)   The lot area shall be a minimum of 4,000 square feet for basic
requirements for such uses as direct servicing, management, and maintenance of
the community. Any such structure shall be of permanent type construction
meeting all local applicable building and zoning codes. Building setbacks shall
be the same as defined in Paragraph A.
         (2)   For uses requiring larger lot areas than heretofore set forth
under this section, such uses may be permitted if lot sizes are increased
proportionately to maintain minimum yard and separation requirements as set
forth in this Zoning Code. The most restrictive rules shall apply.
   7.   Density and Bulk Requirements.
      A.   The minimum distance between any detached appurtenance and any other
detached appurtenance on the same lot or any manufactured/mobile/compact home
on the same lot shall be 10 feet.
      B.   There shall be provided and maintained a minimum distance of three
feet between any detached appurtenance buildings to the side or rear lot lines.
      C.   Manufactured/mobile/compact homes shall be separated from each other
on opposing sides of public or private streets with a minimum of 58 feet
provided that in no event shall the required front yard be less than set forth
in the Zoning Code. No manufactured/mobile/compact home accessory use of
appurtenance shall be permitted in the required manufactured/mobile/compact
home lot front yard or in the required separation between manufactured/mobile/
compact homes on opposing sides of public or private streets as provided in
this chapter.
      D.   Manufactured/mobile/compact homes shall be setback a minimum of
three feet from side lot line. In addition, the sides of manufactured/mobile/
compact homes shall be separated from each other by a minimum of 10 feet.
   8.   Perimeter Area Requirements.
      A.   Each yard abutting on a perimeter public street shall be considered
a front yard and shall be a minimum of 25 feet in depth.
      B.   All other yards shall have a minimum depth of 20 feet when adjacent
to any “A” District or other “R” District other than an R-3 District and 20
feet when adjacent to another R-3 District or when adjacent to any district
other than “A” or “R” District.
      C.   The yard requirement herein may be reduced by one-half the width of
any alley adjacent thereto and, provided further than a greater or lesser yard
may be required where the Council deems necessary.
      D.   Where the boundary of a manufactured/mobile/compact home community
directly abuts another use district, the Council may, where it deemed
necessary, require an area a minimum of 10 feet in width be reserved along the
perimeter of the manufactured/mobile/compact home community and within said
area require the erection of a fence or wall six feet in height of a material
which will provide a significant visual and sound barrier, or screen plantings
to be provided and maintained with a minimum height of eight feet at maturity;
or as otherwise required by the Council.
      E.   Where the boundary of a manufactured/mobile/compact home community
abuts an R-zoning district, the Council may require additional screening
measures to include, but not limited to, placement of multi-sectional units
along the perimeter of the area adjacent to the R-zoning district, additional
open space, or equivalent measures.
   9.   Soil and Ground Cover Requirements. Exposed ground surfaces in all
parts of every manufactured/mobile/compact home community shall be paved, or
covered with stone screenings, or other solid material, or protected with a
vegetative growth that is capable of preventing soil erosion and of preventing
objectionable dust.
   10.   Site Drainage Requirements. A stormwater management plan shall be
developed and must receive approval by the City Engineer.
   11.   Areas For Accessory Uses.
      A.   No part of any community shall be used for non-residential purposes,
except such uses that are required for the direct servicing and well-being of
community residents and for the management and maintenance of the community.
      B.   Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed as prohibiting
either:
         (1)   The sale by an owner of a manufactured/ mobile/compact home
located on a manufactured/mobile/compact home site and connected to the
pertinent utilities. Any sales of manufactured/mobile/compact homes in place on
the manufactured/mobile/compact home site shall not in any way relieve any
parties involved from complying with all the applicable regulations of this
Zoning Code.
         (2)   Uses accessory to the residential uses as described in the
Zoning Code.
   12.   Required Recreation Areas.
      A.   In all communities, there shall be one or more recreation areas that
shall be easily accessible to all community residents.
      B.   The size of such recreation areas shall be based upon a minimum of
500 square feet for each lot. No outdoor recreation area shall contain less
than 25,000 square feet.
      C.   Required recreational areas shall be computed in addition to any
other common open space required elsewhere in this Code.
      D.   Recreation areas shall be located as to be free of traffic hazards
and should be easily accessible.
   13.   Street Systems.
      A.   General Requirements. All manufactured/mobile/compact home
communities shall be provided with safe and convenient vehicular access from
abutting public or private streets or roads to each manufactured/mobile/compact
home lot. Alignment and gradient shall be properly adapted to topography as
approved by the City Engineer.
      B.   Access. Access to manufactured/mobile/compact home communities shall
be designed to minimize congestion and hazards at the entrance or exit and
allow free movement of traffic on adjacent streets. The entrance road
connecting the streets with a public street or road shall have a minimum road
pavement width of 44 feet where parking is permitted on both sides, or a
minimum road pavement width of 36 feet where parking is limited to one side.
Where the primary entrance road is more than 100 feet long and does not provide
access to abutting manufactured/mobile/compact home lots within such distance,
the minimum road pavement width may be 28 feet providing parking is prohibited
on both sides.
      C.   Interior Streets. Surfaced roadways shall be of adequate width to
accommodate anticipated traffic, and in any case shall meet the following
minimum requirements:
         (1)   All streets allowing no street parking shall be 28 feet back of
curb to back of curb.
         (2)   Dead end streets shall be limited in length to 300 feet and
shall be provided at the closed end with a turn-around having an outside
roadway radius of at least 40 feet with no parking permitted. Where parking is
permitted the radius shall not be less than 48 feet.
         (3)   All streets of a manufactured/mobile/compact home community
providing ingress and egress from an abutting public street or road approved by
the City Engineer and by any other governmental agency exercising control over
such streets or roads. Said design shall accommodate the moving of
manufactured/mobile/compact homes within the community without causing
disturbance or damage to other manufactured/mobile/compact homes or respective
lots.
      D.   Required Illumination of Manufactured/Mobile/Compact Home Community
Street Systems. All communities shall be furnished with lighting units so
spaced and equipped with approved fixtures placed at such mounting heights as
will provide the following average maintained levels of illumination for the
safe movement of pedestrians and vehicles at night.
         (1)   All parts of the community systems: 0.6 foot-candle, with a
minimum of 0.25 foot-candle.
         (2)   Potentially hazardous locations, such as major street
intersections and steps or stepped ramps: Individually illuminated with a
minimum of 0.4-foot candle.
      E.   Street Construction and Design Standards. All other street design
and construction shall be approved by the City Engineer.
   14.   Required Parking Areas.
      A.   Parking areas shall be provided in all manufactured/mobile/compact
home communities for the use of community occupants and guests. Such areas
shall be furnished at the rate of at least two car spaces for each
manufactured/mobile/compact home lot. (Minimum space 9’ x 19’.) Additional
guest parking shall be provided in reasonable numbers and shall be so located
as to provide access to the manufactured/mobile/compact home that it is
intended to serve. All parking areas shall be constructed with a hard, smooth,
dust-free surfacing (seal-coat or equivalent surface).
      B.   Off-street parking and storage areas provided for storing of boats,
boat trailers, travel trailers, pickup coaches, truck tractors, trucks over ¾
ton pickup size, and items of a similar nature must be constructed with a hard,
smooth, dust-free, and weed-free surfacing (seal coat or equivalent surface).
Said parking and storage area shall be in addition to parking required
elsewhere in this section and parking and storage of vehicles and items listed
in this paragraph shall not be permitted in parking areas required elsewhere in
this section. Temporary manufactured/mobile/compact home storage may be
permitted prior to permanent placement on the manufactured/mobile/compact home
stand. Such temporary storage of a manufactured/mobile/compact home shall not
exceed 48 hours.
   15.   Walks.
      A.   General Requirements. All communities shall be provided with City
sidewalks in all perimeter areas adjacent to the public right-of-way. All
sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with
Chapter 136.
   16.   Manufactured/Mobile/Compact Home Sites. The area of the manufactured/
mobile/compact home site shall be improved to provide an adequate foundation
for the placement and tie-down of the manufactured/mobile/compact home, thereby
securing the superstructure against uplift, sliding, rotation, and overturning.
      A.   The manufactured/mobile/compact home site shall be constructed in
such a manner that it will meet or exceed industry standards.
      B.   Tie-downs or anchors shall be placed to provide a readily accessible
anchor for the manufactured/mobile/compact home and be able to sustain a
minimum tensile strength as per manufacturer’s requirements.
      C.   Skirting of a permanent type material and construction shall be
installed to enclose the open space between the bottom of a manufactured/
mobile/compact home floor and the grade level of the manufactured/mobile/
compact home stand and shall be so constructed to provide substantial
resistance to heavy winds, thereby alleviating to the maximum extent possible,
lifting action created on the underside of the manufactured or mobile home by
heavy winds.
      D.   A sufficiently screened, ventilating area shall be installed in the
skirting to supply the combustion requirements of the manufactured/mobile/
compact home. Provision shall be made for easy removal of a section large
enough to permit access for inspection of the enclosed area under the
manufacture or mobile home and for repairs on sewer and water riser
connections.
      E.   Skirting shall be maintained in an attractive manner consistent with
the exterior of the manufactured/mobile/compact home and to preserve the
appearance of the manufactured/mobile/compact home community.
   17.   Water Supply.
      A.   General Requirements. All manufactured/mobile/compact home stands
and manufactured/mobile/compact home community facilities shall be connected to
the City’s water supply and its supply used exclusively.
      B.   Source of Supply. The water supply shall be designated to supply a
minimum of 300 gallons per day per manufactured/mobile/compact home plus the
required fire flow of 1,500 gallons per minute and 20 pounds of pressure.
      C.   Water Distribution System.
         (1)   The water supply system of the manufactured/mobile/compact home
community shall be connected by pipes to all manufactured/mobile/compact homes,
buildings, and other facilities requiring water. Water main six inches through
eight inches in diameter shall be PVC pipe meeting AWWA C900 SDR18 or ductile
iron pipe meeting AWWA C151 Class 52. Ductile iron pipe shall be provided with
a cement-mortar lining meeting AWWA C104. Water main fittings shall meet AWWA
C153 or AWWA C110 with cement-mortar lining meeting AWWA C104. Fittings shall
be provided with mechanical joints meeting AWWA C111 and shall have an exterior
bituminous enamel coating.
         (2)   The water piping, back flow prevention devices, fixtures and
other equipment shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with federal,
State, and local regulations.
         (3)   The water system and all appurtenances shall be designed,
constructed, and maintained according to the specifications and requirement of
the City Engineer. Plans for water distribution systems and back flow
prevention systems shall be approved by the City Engineer.
         (4)   Back flow prevention devices shall be required at the connection
of the manufactured or mobile home community water system to the City water
distribution system and shall conform to all the installation and location
requirements as required by this Code.
   18.   Individual Water Riser Pipes and Connections.
      A.   Individual service lines and water riser pipes shall be provided for
each manufactured/mobile/compact home lot. The riser pipe shall be located
within the confined area of the manufactured/mobile/compact home stand at a
point where the water connection will approximate a vertical position. Water
service lines shall be of Type K soft temper copper meeting STM B88. Water
service pipe shall be laid at least 5-1/2 feet, but not more than six feet
below the surface of the finished surface of the ground. When PVC water main is
installed, water services shall be tapped to the water main using a service
saddle. Installation shall be approved by the Director of Public Works.
      B.   Water riser pipes shall extend at least to ground level. The pipe
shall be at least ¾ inch inside diameter. The water outlet shall be capped when
a manufactured/mobile/compact home does not occupy the lot.
      C.   Adequate provisions shall be made to prevent freezing of service
lines, valves, and riser pipes from heaving and thawing actions of ground
during freezing weather. Surface drainage shall be diverted from the location
of the riser pipe.
      D.   A service shut-off valve shall be placed on every service line on
each manufactured or mobile home lot near the riser pipe.
      E.   Underground stop and service valves shall have round ways of the
same diameter as the pipe with which they are placed, proper keys for turning
on and off, and be of a make and pattern approved by the City Water Department.
      F.   An approved back flow prevention device shall be installed on
individual service lines, when or were deemed necessary by the Director of
Public Works.
   19.   Sewage Disposal.
      A.   General Requirements. An adequate and safe sewerage system shall be
provided in all manufactured/mobile/compact home communities for conveying and
disposing of all sewage. Such system shall be designed, constructed, and
maintained in accordance with State requirements and as approved by the City
Engineer.
      B.   Sewer Lines. All sewer mains and laterals shall be constructed
according to this Code and connected to the City sewer system. For private
sewer mains, PVC pipe SDR 35 A.S.T.M. D 3034 or equivalent is acceptable.
      C.   Individual Sewer Connections.
         (1)   Each manufactured/mobile/compact home stand shall be provided
with at least a four-inch diameter sewer riser pipe. The sewer riser pipe shall
be so located on each stand so that the sewer connection to the manufactured/
mobile/compact home drain outlet will approximate a vertical position.
         (2)   The sewer connection shall have a minimum inside diameter of
three inches, and the slope thereof shall not be less than one-fourth inch per
foot. The sewer connection shall consist of one pipeline only without any
branch fittings; all joints shall be air and watertight.
         (3)   All materials used for sewer and sewer connections and
installation shall be approved by the City Engineer.
         (4)   Provisions shall be made for securely plugging the sewer riser
pipe when a manufactured or mobile home does not occupy the lot. Surface
drainage shall be diverted away from the riser. The rim of the riser pipe shall
extend at least to ground level.
   20.   Electrical Distribution System.
      A.   General Requirements. Every community shall contain an electrical
wiring system consisting of necessary wiring, fixtures, and equipment that
shall be installed and maintained in accordance with applicable codes and
regulations governing such systems.
      B.   Main Electrical Power Distribution Lines. Main electrical power
lines should be constructed underground according to local electric utility
specifications.
      C.   Individual Electrical Connections.
         (1)   Each manufactured/mobile/compact home stand shall be provided
with an approved disconnecting device and over-current protective equipment.
The minimum service per manufactured or mobile home stand outlet shall be
according to the National Electrical Code. Minimum size for feeder circuits
shall be 100 amps.
         (2)   Outlet receptacles at each manufactured/mobile/compact home
stand shall be located not more than 30 feet from the exterior wall of the
manufactured or mobile home it serves and a three pole, four-wire grounding
type shall be used. Receptacles shall be of weatherproof construction and
configuration shall be in accordance with “Standard for Manufactured or Mobile
Homes USAS A119.1” published by United States of America Standards Institute.
         (3)   The manufactured/mobile/compact home shall be connected to the
outlet receptacle that meets ANSI C73.17-1972, American Standard dimension of
caps, plugs and receptacles by an approved type of flexible cable with
connectors and a male attachment plug. However, where the calculated load of
the manufactured/mobile/compact home is between 50 and 100 amperes, a second
50-ampere power supply assembly may be installed or an electrical service shall
be provided by means of permanently installed conductors.
         (4)   Where the calculated load exceeds 100 amperes or where a
permanent feeder is used, the supply shall be by means of a four-wire
installation according to City specifications.
         (5)   Required Grounding. All exposed non-current carrying metal parts
of manufactured or mobile homes and all equipment having electrical connections
shall be grounded by means of an approved grounding conductor with branch
circuit conductors or other approved method of grounded metallic wiring. The
neutral conductor shall not be used as a ground for manufactured/mobile/compact
homes or other electrical equipment.
   21.   Manufactured/Mobile/Compact Home Storm Shelters.
      A.   General Requirements. Every manufactured/mobile/compact home
community of 10 or more manufactured/mobile/compact home lots which is
constructed after the effective date of this Zoning Code shall be provided with
above or below-grade storm shelters which shall:
         (1)   Have a minimum floor area of seven square feet for each
manufactured/mobile/compact home space in said manufactured/mobile/compact home
community.
         (2)   Be designed by a licensed structural engineer or architect and
built-in accordance with plans as approved by the City Engineer.
         (3)   Be designed and constructed to meet all FEMA requirements and
guidelines.
         (4)   Be designed and constructed to meet the minimum lighting,
ventilation and exiting requirements of the City Housing Code (See
Chapter 155).
         (5)   Be designed and constructed to meet all applicable requirements
of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
         (6)   Be located no farther than 1,320 linear feet from the furthest
manufactured or mobile home space in the manufactured/mobile/compact home
community.
      B.   Additions to Existing Communities. For any addition of 10 or more
manufactured/mobile/compact home spaces to any existing manufactured/mobile/
compact home community, a storm shelter which complies with the general
requirements of this section hereof shall be provided to serve such additional
spaces. For any addition of fewer than 10 manufactured or mobile home spaces to
an existing manufactured/mobile/compact home community which otherwise complies
with the requirements of this section, there is no requirement that an
additional shelter be provided to serve such additional spaces. Provided,
however, that when two or more such additions of fewer than 10 manufactured/
mobile/compact home spaces result in a cumulative addition of 10 or more
manufactured/mobile/compact home spaces to a manufactured/mobile/compact home
community which otherwise complies with the requirements of this section, a
storm shelter which complies with the general requirements of this section
shall be provided to serve such additional spaces.
      C.   Restroom Facilities. Restroom facilities in required storm shelters
are mandatory. Toilets may be either flush-type operating from normal water
supply, chemical, or other approved types.
      D.   Access to Shelters. The manufactured/mobile/compact home community
owner, or such owner’s designated agent or representative, shall be responsible
for making the storm shelter accessible and usable in times of need. It shall
be unlawful for any required storm shelter to be used for storage purposes if
such storage reduces the minimum floor area available for shelter of person
below the requirements of Section
165.20(20)(E)(1).
      E.   Existing Non-Conforming Manufactured/Mobile/Compact Home
Communities.
         (1)   Any manufactured/mobile/compact home community of 10 or more
manufactured/mobile/compact home spaces which has an existing above of below-
grade storm shelter as of the effective date of this Zoning Code which does not
conform with the requirements of this section, shall be deemed a non-conforming
manufactured/mobile/compact home community with regard to the requirements for
storm shelters and may continue to exist as a non-conforming manufactured/
mobile/compact home community for so long as said existing shelter remains in
place and usable; provided, however, that any manufactured/mobile/compact home
spaces added to such community after the effective date of this Zoning Code
shall require storm shelters as provided in this section.
   22.   Refuse Handling.
      A.   The storage, collection, and disposal of refuse in the manufactured/
mobile/compact home community shall be so conducted as to create no health
hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding areas, accident or fire hazards, or
air pollution.
      B.   All refuse shall be stored in fly-tight, watertight, rodent-proof
containers. Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to
property store all refuse.
      C.   All manufactured/mobile/compact home communities shall offer
recycling opportunities for residents by either providing drop-off facilities
or curbside collection or some other alternative method for diverting solid
waste from area landfills.
      D.   Refuse collection stands located on an impervious slab at ground
level shall be provided for all refuse containers. Such container stands shall
be so designed as to prevent containers from being tipped, to minimize spillage
and container deterioration and to facilitate cleaning around them.
      E.   All refuse containing garbage shall be collected at least once
weekly. Collection shall be contracted by said manufactured/mobile/compact home
community and private commercial carrier.
   23.   Natural Gas System. Natural gas piping systems shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing such
systems established by franchised public utility.
   24.   Insect and Rodent Control.
      A.   Grounds, buildings, and structures shall be maintained free of
insect and rodent harborage and infestation. Extermination methods and other
measures to control insects and rodents shall conform to the requirements of
the applicable County Health Department.
      B.   Communities shall remain free of accumulations of debris that may
provide rodent harborage or breeding places for flies, mosquitoes, and other
pests.
      C.   Storage areas shall be so maintained as to prevent rodent harborage.
      D.   The growth of brush, weeds, and grass shall be controlled to prevent
harborage of ticks, chiggers, and other offensive insects. Communities shall be
so maintained as to prevent the growth of ragweed, poison ivy, poison oak,
poison sumac, and other weeds considered detrimental to health. Open areas
shall be maintained and free of heavy undergrowth of any description.
   25.   Fire Protection.
      A.   The manufactured/mobile/compact home community area shall be subject
to the rules and regulations of the entity providing fire protection services
pursuant to Chapter 35.
      B.   Manufactured/mobile/compact home communities shall be kept free of
litter, rubbish, and other flammable materials.
      C.   Portable fire extinguishers of the type approved by the entity
providing fire protection services pursuant to Chapter 35 shall be kept in
service buildings and at all locations designated by such fire prevention
authority and shall be maintained in good operating condition.
      D.   Fire hydrants shall be installed in the community’s water system and
located at such locations as determined by the entity providing fire protection
services pursuant to Chapter 35 and the Director of Public Works. Piping layout
and sizing shall be determined and approved by the Director of Public Works.
   26.   Responsibilities of Community Management.
      A.   The owner or manager of a manufactured/mobile/compact home community
shall operate the community in compliance with this Zoning Code and regulations
issued hereunder and shall provide adequate supervision to maintain the
community, its facilities, and equipment in good repair and in a clean and
sanitary condition.
      B.   The community management shall notify community residents of all
applicable provisions of this Zoning Code and regulations issued hereunder.
      C.   Required skirting shall be installed in accordance with the
provisions of this Zoning Code and within 30 days after initial occupancy
unless prohibited by frozen ground, in which event such skirting shall be
installed immediately after the ground becomes unfrozen but, in all instances,
no later than June 1 of the year following installation.
   27.   Responsibilities of Community Occupants.
      A.   The community occupant shall comply with all applicable requirements
of this Zoning Code and regulations issued hereunder and shall maintain their
manufactured/mobile/compact home lot, its facilities, and equipment in good
repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
      B.   Shall comply with all City regulations regarding the keeping and
caring for animals and pets.
   28.   Manufactured/Mobile/Compact Home Community Regulations, Variations,
and Exceptions. Whenever the tract proposed to be developed is of such unusual
size or shape or is surrounded by such development or unusual conditions that
the strict application of the requirements contained in these regulations would
result in substantial hardships or injustice, the Council, upon recommendation
of the Board of Adjustment, may vary or modify such requirements so that the
developer is allowed to develop the property in a reasonable manner; provided
that the public welfare and interests of the City and surrounding area are
protected and the general intent and spirit of these regulations are preserved.
   29.   Occupancy of Manufactured Home. It shall be unlawful to use any
manufactured or mobile home within the corporate limits of the City, except
when located in a manufactured or mobile community regularly approved according
to the provisions of this chapter, or an area licensed by the State as a
manufactured or mobile home community prior to the effective date of this
chapter, and except such manufactured or mobile homes or vehicles may be used
for human occupancy in an area authorized by the Council for recreational or
other purposes subject to respective rules and regulations.
   30.   Storage. This section does not prohibit the storage of one travel
trailer, pickup coach, or motorized home for any one family providing that the
stored location of said unit is in compliance with the regulations of the
Zoning Code. Parked or stored travel trailers, pickup coaches, or motorized
homes may be occupied or used for living, sleeping, or housekeeping purposes
under the following circumstances:
      A.   The vehicle shall not be parked on a City street or alley;
      B.   The vehicle shall not be parked in a required front or corner side
yard;
      C.   Occupancy of the vehicle is limited to not more than 72 hours unless
special approval from the City is received.
   31.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. Subject to Section
165.13(5) and other requirements contained herein, the Board of Adjustment may
permit the following:
      A.   Anything permitted in an R-1 District provided that all requirements
are in compliance with an R-1 District.
      B.   Anything permitted in an R-2 District provided that all requirements
are in compliance with an R-2 District.
      C.   Utility distribution systems and substations, but not including
equipment storage structures or yards or administrative or sales office,
provided that any substation shall meet the front and rear yard requirements
for dwellings and shall provide side yards of not less than 20 feet.
      D.   Home occupations.
      E.   Smaller trailers may be allowed temporarily for up to one year.
      F.   Those special exception uses and structures deemed appropriate by
the Planning and Zoning Commission and Board of Adjustment.
   32.   Special Requirements.
      A.   The R-3 District shall observe the fencing and shrubbery requirement
as prescribed in Section
165.26.
      B.   Mobile homes as defined in Section 435.1[5] of the Code of Iowa,
other than mobile homes which meet the definition of a “manufactured home”
under Section 435.1[3] Code of Iowa, shall be placed or located only in R-
3 Zoning Districts.
      C.   It shall be unlawful to move a mobile home without first applying to
the Administrative Officer for a permit to do so and until a permit has been
granted.
165.21   C-1 COMMERCIAL CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   1.   Statement of Intent. The C-1 Central Business District is intended to
accommodate general retail and professional office uses and promote the
efficient and compact development of the Central Business District, the area to
which the use of this district is limited.
   2.   Permitted Uses and Required Parking.
Permitted Uses Minimum Off-Street Parking
Permitted Uses                                    Minimum Off-Street Parking
Beauty and barber shops                           None
Business and professional offices, banks, and     None
studios
Dance or music schools                            None
Dry cleaners or laundry                           None
Dwelling units above any permitted use            None
Essential services, public structures, utilities,
distribution systems, or substations, but not     None
including open storage or maintenance yards
Funeral home                                      1 space for every five seats
                                                  in the main chapel
Lumberyard                                        None
Medical, dental, chiropractic clinics and         None
veterinary clinics
Motels and hotels                                 1 space per unit
Parking lots                                      None
Personal service and repair shops                 None
Plumbing, heating and air conditioning sales,     None
service, and repair
Printing, publishing, and engraving               None
Public uses                                       None
Radio or television broadcasting station          None
Real estate, insurance, and financial             None
institutions
Restaurants, night club, café, tavern, or liquor None
store
Retail businesses                                 None
Social activities, club, and lodges               None
 
   3.   Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures.
      A.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the
permitted principal uses or structures of this district.
      B.   Accessory uses and structures applicable to any existing residence
providing compliance with all residential requirements.
      C.   Storage warehouses used in conjunction with the permitted principal
uses or structures of this district.
      D.   Temporary structures and equipment used in conjunction with
construction work, provided that such structures and equipment are removed
promptly upon completion of the construction work.
      E.   Structures attached to the principal structure shall be considered
part of the principal structure and shall conform to the same front, side, and
rear setback yard regulations if required.
   4.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. Subject to Section
165.13(5) and other requirements contained herein, the Board of Adjustment may
permit the following:
      A.   Anything permitted in an R-1 District provided that all requirements
are in compliance for an R-1 District.
      B.   With the exception of churches, anything permitted in an R-
2 District provided that all requirements are in compliance for an R-
2 District.
      C.   Multi-family dwellings or apartments on the ground level floor of a
commercial building provided that the building has remained vacant for a two-
year period and that there is off-street parking available of two spaces per
unit.
      D.   Wholesale business.
      E.   Bus terminals.
      F.   Entertainment facilities.
      G.   Height limitations greater than 35 feet. Any structure higher than
35 feet shall require their own fire protection system in accordance with State
Fire Marshal recommendations.
      H.   Drive-through establishment.
   5.   Bulk Regulations.
Maximum Height
Commercial Activities 35 feet except as permitted by special exception
Minimum Lot Area and Width
Commercial Activities None
Minimum Distance Requirements
Front                 None
Rear                  None
Side                  None
 
   6.   Special Requirements.
      A.   The C-1 District shall observe the fencing and shrubbery
requirements as prescribed in Section
165.26.
      B.   Overhead or area light fixtures shall be located and focused so as
to avoid casting direct light upon any adjacent residential property, or
interfere with a traveled portion of a public street.
      C.   Construction and alterations within the Fire Zone as established by
Chapter 164 must comply with the code regulations.
      D.   For requirements pertaining to awnings, encroaching steps and other
openings and enclosures see Sections
136.14,
136.15, and
136.16.
      E.   Galvanized metal is not a permissible building material.
165.22   C-2 COMMERCIAL - HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   1.   Statement of Intent. The C-2 Highway Commercial District is intended to
accommodate uses which ordinarily serve the traveling public and commercial
uses which generally require substantial land area and access to a major
traffic artery. No structures shall be constructed or placed within the 25-foot
setback on a street side. This does not include usual steps.
   2.   Permitted uses and Required Parking.
Permitted Uses Minimum Off-Street Parking
Permitted Uses                                  Minimum Off-Street Parking
Animal hospitals or kennels                     1 space/300 sq. ft. floor area
Any other use permitted in the C-1 District     1 space/600 sq. ft. of sales,
provided that all requirements are in           service, or office service or
compliance with a C-2 District                  office floor area
Automotive sales                                1 space/600 sq. ft. floor area
Bowling alley                                   5 spaces/lane or alley
Dance Hall and skating rink                     1 space/100 sq. ft. floor area
Dwelling unit above any permitted use           1 space/unit
Essential services, public structures           1 space/employee plus 1 space/
utilities, distribution systems, or substations vehicle used by facility
Farm implement display sales, service, and      1 space/600 sq. ft. floor area
repair
Golf driving range or miniature golf            3 spaces/tee plus 1 space/
                                                employee
Lumberyard or building material sales           1 space/600 sq. ft. floor area
Monument market display and sales               1 space/employee/plus 1 space/
                                                vehicle used by the facility
Plant nursery and garden supplies and sales     1 space/600 sq. ft. floor area
Plumbing, heating, and air conditioner sales,   1 space/employee plus 1 space/
service, and repair                             vehicle used by facility
Professional activities                         1 space/300 sq. ft. floor area
Public uses                                     5 spaces for each acre
                                                developed for active usage
Radio or television broadcasting station        5 spaces plus 1 space/employee
Research and testing facilities.                1 space/300 sq. ft. floor area
Restaurant, night club, café or tavern, liquor 1 space/100 sq. ft. floor area
store
Social activity uses developed for active usage 5 spaces for each acre
Storage units                                   None
Tourist campground                              1 space/campsite
                                                6 spaces plus one off-street
Transport terminal                              loading space for each bus
                                                serving the terminal
Welding, machine, and repair shops              1 space/600 sq. ft. floor area
 
   3.   Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures.
      A.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the
permitted principal uses or structures of this district.
      B.   Accessory uses and structures applicable to any existing residence
in such district providing compliance with all residential requirements.
      C.   Storage warehouses used in conjunction with the permitted principal
uses or structures of this district.
      D.   Temporary structures and equipment used in conjunction with
construction work, provided that such structures and equipment are removed
promptly upon completion of the construction work.
      E.   Structures attached to the principal structure shall be considered
part of the principal structure and shall conform to the same front, side, and
rear setback yard regulations.
      F.   Accessory structures shall have the same setback requirements as the
principal structure.
   4.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. Subject to Section
165.13(5) and other requirements contained herein, the Board of Adjustment may
permit the following:
      A.   Anything permitted in an R-1 District provided that all requirements
are in compliance with an R-1 District.
      B.   With the exception of churches, anything permitted in an R-
2 District provided that all requirements are in compliance with an R-
2 District.
      C.   Multi-family dwellings or apartments.
      D.   Wholesale business.
      E.   Height limitations greater than 35 feet. Any structure higher than
35 feet shall require their own fire protection system in accordance with State
Fire Marshal recommendations.
      F.   Drive-through establishments.
   5.   Bulk Regulations.
Maximum Height
Commercial Activity 35 feet except as permitted by special exception
Minimum Lot Area and Width
Commercial Activity None
Minimum Distance Requirements
Front               25 feet
Rear                15 feet
Side                10 feet*
Street side         0.25 feet
*Where adjacent to any residence or R District, the adjoining yard shall not
be less than 15 feet.
 
   6.   Special Requirements.
      A.   The C-2 District shall observe the fencing and shrubbery
requirements as prescribed in Section
165.26.
      B.   No merchandise display or exterior storage shall be provided in any
required front yard or in the first 10 feet inside the property line of any
required side or rear yard, where adjacent to any residence or “R” District.
      C.   Overhead or area light fixtures shall be located and focused so as
to avoid casting direct light upon any adjacent residential property, or
interfere with a traveled portion of a public street.
      D.   All unsurfaced yard areas shall be covered with a suitable, well-
maintained, perennial ground cover, and landscape plantings.
      E.   Any structure not placed on a permanent foundation shall be anchored
in a permanent location and comply with setback requirements.
      F.   Galvanized metal is not a permissible building material.
165.23   I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   1.   Statement of Intent. The I-1 Light Industrial District is designed to
accommodate various industrial and warehousing uses, and to encourage the
development of an area that is esthetically pleasing with minimal adverse
effects on adjoining properties.
   2.   Permitted Uses and Required Parking.
   3.   Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures.
Permitted Principal Uses and Minimum Off-Street Parking Loading Spaces
Structures
Permitted Principal Uses  Minimum Off-Street Parking Loading Spaces
and Structures
Animal hospitals and      1 space per every 2        1 space per 10,000 sq. ft.
kennels                   employees during peak      floor area
                          hours of employment
Any other use
specifically permitted in
the commercial districts  1 space per every 2        1 space per 10,000 sq. ft.
provided that all         employees during peak      floor area
requirements are in       hours of employment
compliance with an I-
1 District.
Automobile paint and body 1 space/200 sq. ft. floor  1 space per 10,000 sq. ft.
shops                     area                       floor area
Building fabrication,     1 space per every 2        1 space per 10,000 sq. ft.
including mobile homes,   employees during peak      floor area
display and sales         hours of employment
Contractors shop and      1 space per every 2        1 space per 10,000 sq. ft.
storage yard              employees during peak      floor area
                          hours of employment
Essential services,
public structures,        1 space per every 2
utilities, distribution   employees during peak      1 space per 10,000 sq. ft.
systems or substations,   hours of employment        floor area
including storage
structures and yards
Lumber yards and building 5 spaces plus one space    1 space per 10,000 sq. ft.
materials, sales, and     each employee              floor area
storage
Manufacturing uses that   1 space/2 employees, but
create no offensive       in no case less than 1     1 space per 10,000 sq. ft.
noise, dust, odor,        space/2,000 sq. ft. of     floor area
vibration, or electrical  gross floor area
interference
Plumbing, heating, air    1 space/200 sq. ft. floor  1 space per 10,000 sq. ft.
conditioning, and sheet   area                       floor area
metal shops
Processing including the
compounding, processing,
packaging or treatment of
cosmetics,
pharmaceuticals and food  1 space per every 2        1 space per 10,000 sq. ft.
products except fish and  employees during peak      floor area
meat products, cereals,   hours of employment
sauerkraut, vinegar,
yeast, stock fee, flour
and the rendering or
refining of fats and oils
Railroads                 None                       1 space per 10,000 sq. ft.
                                                     floor area
Research and testing      1 space per every 2        1 space per 10,000 sq. ft.
facilities                employees during peak      floor area
                          hours of employment
Truck and freight         1 space per every 2        1 space per 10,000 sq. ft.
terminal                  employees during peak      floor area
                          hours of employment
Welding, machine, and     1 space per every 2        1 space per 10,000 sq. ft.
repair shops              employees during peak      floor area
                          hours of employment
Wholesaling and
warehousing use but not   1 space per every 2
including the bulk        employees during peak
storage of anhydrous      hours of employment
ammonia or petroleum
products under pressure
 
   3.   Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures.
      A.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the
permitted principal uses or structures of this district.
      B.   Accessory uses and structures applicable to any existing residence
providing compliance with all residential requirements.
      C.   Temporary structures used in conjunction with construction work
provided that such structures are removed promptly upon completion of the
construction work.
   4.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. Subject to Section
165.13(5) and other requirements contained herein, the Board of Adjustment may
permit the following:
      A.   Sale or storage of fuels and chemicals.
      B.   Storage of junk or non-operative vehicles, under the provisions of
Section
165.13(5)(B). The storage or use of hazardous flammables, either solid, liquid,
or gas shall be in accordance with approved standards.
      C.   Outside storage is permitted only if it is enclosed by an eight foot
minimum height architectural or landscaped screen that prevents visible access
to such storage. The height of any equipment or materials so stored shall not
exceed the height of the screen. Such storage shall not exceed 25 percent of
the lot area.
      D.   Height limitations greater than 35 feet. Any structure higher than
35 feet shall require their own fire protection system in accordance with State
Fire Marshal regulations.
   5.   Bulk Regulations.
Maximum Height
Maximum Height
Industrial  35 feet except as permitted by special exception
Minimum Lot Area and Width
Industrial  Area – 10,000 square feet
            Width – 100 feet
Minimum Distance Requirements
Front       25 feet
Rear        15 feet
Side        10 feet*
Street side 25 feet
*If the side or rear yard fronts on a street, the depth of the yard shall not
be less than the depth of the front yard. In addition, where a railroad right-
of-way lies immediately adjacent to the rear of a lot, the rear yard
requirement need not apply. Where adjacent to any resident or R district, the
adjoining yard shall not be less than 25 feet.
 
   6.   Special Requirements.
      A.   The I-1 District shall observe the fencing and shrubbery
requirements as prescribed in Section
165.26.
      B.   No merchandise display or exterior storage shall be provided in any
required front yard or in the first 25 feet inside the property line of any
required side or rear yard, where adjacent to any residence or R District.
      C.   Overhead or area light fixtures shall be located and focused so as
to avoid casting direct light upon any adjacent residential property, or
interfere with a traveled portion of a public street.
      D.   All unsurfaced yard areas shall be covered with a suitable, well
maintained, perennial ground cover and landscape plantings.
      E.   All roadways, parking, and loading areas are to be surfaced to
provide dust-free surfaces.
      F.   Exterior storage other than the display of products for retail sale
shall be enclosed by a fence or suitable landscape planting, the design or type
of which shall be approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission, and which
will screen the stored materials from the view of public streets or residential
areas.
      G.   No raw material, finished product, or waste product which may cause
dust or odor which would adversely affect adjoining properties shall be stored
outside a building nor shall any junk, debris, or waste material be permitted
to accumulate on the site.
      H.   The storage or use of hazardous flammables, either solid, liquid, or
gas, shall be in accordance with approved standards.
      I.   Any structure not placed on a permanent foundation shall be anchored
in a permanent location and comply with setback requirements.
165.24   I-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   1.   Statement of Intent. The I-2 Heavy Industrial District is intended to
accommodate various types of industrial, warehousing, and storage uses
including heavy manufacturing and related uses.
   2.   Permitted Uses and Required Parking.
Permitted Principal Uses and Minimum Off-Street Parking Loading Spaces
Structures
Permitted Principal Uses and     Minimum Off-Street      Loading Spaces
Structures                       Parking
Any other use specifically
permitted in C-1, C-2, and I-    1 space per every 2     1 loading space/10,000
1 Districts provided all         employees during peak   sq. ft. of floor area
requirements are in compliance   hours of employment     or fraction thereof
with an I-2 District
                                 1 space per every 2     1 loading space/10,000
Batch plants                     employees during peak   sq. ft. of floor area
                                 hours of employment     or fraction thereof
Building fabrication, including  1 space per every 2     1 loading space/10,000
mobile homes                     employees during peak   sq. ft. of floor area
                                 hours of employment     or fraction thereof
                                 1 space per every 2     1 loading space/10,000
Bulk petroleum plants            employees during peak   sq. ft. of floor area
                                 hours of employment     or fraction thereof
Contractor’s shops and storage 1 space per every 2     1 loading space/10,000
yard                             employees during peak   sq. ft. of floor area
                                 hours of employment     or fraction thereof
Essential services, public
structures, utilities,           1 space per every 2     1 loading space/10,000
distribution systems, or         employees during peak   sq. ft. of floor area
substations, including storage   hours of employment     or fraction thereof
structures and yards
Grain elevators, feed mills, and 1 space per every 2     1 loading space/10,000
grain drying plants              employees during peak   sq. ft. of floor area
                                 hours of employment     or fraction thereof
                                 1 space per every 2     1 loading space/10,000
Incineration plants              employees during peak   sq. ft. of floor area
                                 hours of employment     or fraction thereof
                                 1 space/2 employees,    1 loading space/10,000
Manufacturing uses               but in no case less     sq. ft. of floor area
                                 than 1 space/2,000 sq.  or fraction thereof
                                 ft. of gross floor area
Petroleum products under         1 space per every 2     1 loading space/10,000
pressure                         employees during peak   sq. ft. of floor area
                                 hours of employment     or fraction thereof
Processing, including integrated 1 space per every 2     1 loading space/10,000
rendering plants,                employees during peak   sq. ft. of floor area
slaughterhouses, food processing hours of employment     or fraction thereof
and wastewater treatment
                                 1 space per every 2     1 loading space/10,000
Railroad repair shops            employees during peak   sq. ft. of floor area
                                 hours of employment     or fraction thereof
                                 1 space per every 2     1 loading space/10,000
Wholesaling and warehousing uses employees during peak   sq. ft. of floor area
                                 hours of employment     or fraction thereof
 
   3.   Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures.
      A.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the
permitted principal uses or structures of this district. Accessory uses and
structures applicable to any existing residence providing compliance with
residential setback requirements.
      B.   Temporary structures used in conjunction with construction work
provided that such structures are removed promptly upon completion of the
construction work.
   4.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. Subject to Section
165.13(5) and other requirements contained herein, the Board of Adjustment may
permit the following:
      A.   Stockyards, loading pens, livestock buying stations, and rendering
plants. Provided, however,
         (1)   That it is not closer than one-fourth mile to any dwelling unit
other than that of the owner or operator,
         (2)   That it is not closer than one-fourth mile to a park, school,
church, or place of public assembly;
         (3)   That it is located so that winds will not cause dust or odors to
create a nuisance for developed properties in the vicinity;
         (4)   That provision for drainage, sanitation, and waste disposal area
is approved by the Department of Natural Resources;
         (5)   That parking be available at one space for each two employees,
but in no case less than one space for each 2,000 square feet of gross floor
area.
      B.   Auto wrecking and junkyards provided,
         (1)   That the front yard be maintained as an open space free of weeds
and debris;
         (2)   That no open burning of waste or discarded material shall be
conducted on the site; and
         (3)   That two parking spaces plus one space for each employee and one
space for each vehicle used by the operation be provided.
      C.   The bulk storage of anhydrous ammonia provided that such use shall
not be located closer than 1,000 feet from any existing school, park, place of
public assembly, or dwelling other than that of the owner or operator. That one
off-street parking space be provided for each vehicle or trailer used by the
industry.
      D.   Height limitations greater than 35 feet. Any structure higher than
35 feet shall require their own fire protection system in accordance with State
Fire Marshal requirements.
   5.   Bulk Regulations.
Maximum Height
Maximum Height
Heavy Industrial 35 feet except as permitted by special exception
Minimum Lot Area and Width
Heavy Industrial None
Minimum Distance Requirements
Front            25 feet
Rear             25 feet
Side             25 feet*
Street side      25 feet
*If the side or rear yard fronts on a street, the depth of the yard shall not
be less than the depth of the front yard. In addition, where a railroad right-
of-way lies immediately adjacent to the rear of a lot, the rear yard
requirement need not apply. Where adjacent to any residence or R District, the
adjoining yard shall not be less than 50 feet.
 
   6.   Special Requirements.
      A.   The C-1 District shall observe the fencing and shrubbery
requirements as prescribed in Section 165.26.
      B.   Exterior storage other than the display of products for retail sale
shall be enclosed by a fence or suitable landscape planting, the design or type
of which shall be approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission, and which
will screen the stored materials from the view of public streets or residential
areas.
      C.   No raw material, finished product, or waste product which may cause
dust or odor which would adversely affect adjoining properties shall be stored
outside a building nor shall any junk, debris, or waste material be permitted
to accumulate on the site.
      D.   No merchandise display or exterior storage shall be provided in any
required front yard or in the first 25 feet inside the property line of any
required side or rear yard, where adjacent to any residence or R District.
      E.   Any structure not placed on a permanent foundation shall be anchored
in a permanent location and comply with setback requirements.
165.25   OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING SPACES.
   1.   Required Off-Street Parking. All required off-street parking spaces
shall be maintained in satisfactory condition by the property owner for each
building or use in any district.
   2.   Locating Parking Space in Front Yard. All-off street parking spaces may
be located within the required front yard in any C-2 or I-1 District, provided
such space is 50 feet or more away from any R District. No off-street parking
is permitted in the front yard of any R District, except upon a surfaced
parking space. A property owner wishing to lower the level of the street curb
shall apply to the Council for such approval (also see Section
135.10).
   3.   Collective Parking Facilities. In the C-1 Central Business District,
where conditions may preclude the provision of off-street parking spaces on the
same lot as the building or use in accordance with the district requirements,
provision may be made for the required off-street parking within 300 feet of
the lot.
   4.   Off-Street Loading. Except in the C-1 Central Business District,
adequate space for the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise by
vehicles shall be provided and maintained on the lot in order to avoid undue
interference with public use of the street or alley.
165.26   FENCING AND SHRUBBERY.
   1.   Permit Required. A Location Permit shall be obtained from the
Administrative Officer before placing fences or continuous planted shrubbery or
hedges.
   2.   Fence Regulations. All fences shall comply with the following:
      A.   No fence shall be erected within two feet of any lot line.
      B.   Fences shall not exceed a height of three feet on any street side.
      C.   Fences shall not exceed a height of eight feet in the side or rear
yard area.
      D.   With mutual consent of abutting property owners, fences can be
constructed on lot lines.
   3.   Hedge Regulations. All hedges shall comply with the following:
      A.   No shrubbery shall be permitted within two feet of the front, side,
or rear lot lines.
      B.   Continuous planted shrubbery or hedges shall be maintained at the
same maximum height as fences.
   4.   Corner Lots. On any corner lot, or lot abutting on an alley, no fence
or other structure shall be erected and no foliage or shrubbery shall be
planted or maintained to a height of more than three feet above the ground
within the triangular area formed by measuring 15 feet each direction from the
corner along the lot line and connecting those two points. No foliage or
shrubbery shall be planted or maintained, and no fence shall be constructed in
such a manner, which will materially obstruct the view of the drivers of
vehicles approaching a street intersection or an alley approach to a street.
   5.   Barbed Wire. It shall be unlawful for a person to use barbed wire or
single strand wire within the City limits without the consent of the Council
unless such land consists of 10 acres or more and is used an agricultural land.
   6.   Fence Materials. Unless otherwise a more specific section applies,
fencing installed pursuant to this section shall be made of rot resistant or
pressure treated wood, chain link, or vinyl or plastic material. No other
fencing materials will be permitted without the prior approval of the Council.
165.27   SIGNS.
   1.   A Location Permit shall be obtained from the Administrative Officer.
   2.   Temporary signs (not more than 12 months) advertising the sale or lease
of the premises shall not exceed 32 square feet in area.
   3.   No use shall have more than one of each type of sign permitted for that
use, although each sign may be a double faced or back-to-back sign.
   4.   All signs shall be maintained in a neat and presentable condition and
in the event their use shall cease, they shall promptly be removed.
   5.   Signs which are located in such a manner as not to obscure or otherwise
interfere with the effectiveness of an official traffic sign, signal, or device
or which does not obstruct, or interfere, with the driver’s view of
approaching, merging, or intersecting traffic as determined by the Council.
   6.   Properties abutting State highways need to obtain approval from the
IDOT.
   7.   In A-1, R-1, R-2, and R-3 Districts the illumination of signs and
bulletin boards shall be indirect, non-intermittent lighting.
   8.   In A-1, R-1, R-2, and R-3 Districts the permitted signs shall be
located at least eight feet inside the lot line.
   9.   In A-1, R-2, and R-3 Districts the church or public bulletin boards
shall not exceed 32 square feet in area.
   10.   In an A-1 District signs shall have a maximum height of 35 feet.
   11.   In an A-1 District agriculture and agricultural service business signs
identifying the business or service shall not exceed 32 square feet in area.
   12.   In C-1, C-2, I-1, and I-2 Districts advertising signs, trade,
business, or industry identification signs for the business located on the site
provided that the following requirements are met:
      A.   One free standing sign per business not to exceed 25 feet in overall
height and 100 square feet per face, and at a height not less than 10 feet
above the sidewalk or ground and if permitted by special exception.
      B.   Signs attached to a structure shall not project above the height of
the structure or more than six feet from the wall of the structure and not to
exceed 50 square feet.
      C.   No surface-mounted sign shall exceed 150 square feet in area or
cover more than 10 percent of the structure face on which it is located.
      D.   Portable Signs.
         (1)   Shall not exceed 30 days in duration in any six-month period of
time.
         (2)   Shall not exceed 32 square feet per face.
         (3)   Shall not be located on the sidewalk if larger than 12 square
feet in total area or three feet in width.
   13.   In C-1, C-2, I-1, and I-2 Districts signs which do not resemble any
traffic sign, signal, or device are prohibited.
   14.   In C-1, C-2, I-1, and I-2 Districts no projecting wall sign shall be
attached to a wall of a structure at a height less than 10 feet above the
sidewalk or ground.
   15.   In C-2, I-1, and I-2 Districts billboards are allowed only when
granted a special exception.
   16.   In C-1, C-2, I-1, and I-2 Districts rotating beacons are prohibited.
165.28   NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   1.   Nonconformities. Within the districts established by this chapter or
amendments that may later be adopted, there exist lots, structures, and uses of
land and structures which were lawful before this chapter was passed or
amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the
terms of this chapter or future amendment. Any changes made to a use or
structure shall comply with Section 165.08.
   2.   Nonconformities May Continue. Subject to Section
165.16, it is the intent of this chapter to permit these nonconformities to
continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival so that
ultimately uniformity will prevail. Such uses are declared by this chapter to
be incompatible with permitted uses in the districts involved. It is further
the intent of this chapter that nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon,
expanded, or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or
uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
   3.   Nonconformities May Not Be Enlarged. A nonconforming use of land, or a
nonconforming use of a structure and land shall not be extended or enlarged
after the date of adoption by attachment on a structure or premises of
additional signs intended to be seen from off the premises, or by the addition
of other uses of a nature which would be prohibited generally in the district
involved.
   4.   Nonconformities At Adoption. To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this
chapter shall be deemed to require a change in the plans, construction, or
designated use of any structure on which actual construction was lawfully begun
prior to the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter and upon
which actual construction has been diligently carried on. Actual construction
is defined to include the placing of construction materials in permanent
position and fastened in a permanent manner, except that where demolition or
removal of an existing structure has been substantially begun preparatory to
reconstruction, such demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual
construction, provided that work shall be diligently carried on until
completion of the structure involved.
   5.   Nonconforming Lots of Record. In any district in which single-family
dwellings are permitted, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other
provisions of this chapter, a single-family dwelling and customary accessory
structures may be erected on any single lot of record at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this chapter. Such lot must be in separate ownership
and not of continuous frontage with other lots in the same ownership. This
provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the requirements for
area or width or both that are generally applicable in the district, provided
that yard dimensions and other requirements not involving area or width of the
lot, or both, shall conform to the regulations for the district in which such
lot is located. Variance of yard requirements shall be obtained only through
action of the Board of Adjustment. If two or more lots or combinations of lots
and portions of lots with continuous frontage in single ownership are of record
at the time of passage or amendment of this chapter, and if all or part of the
lots do not meet the requirements for lot width and area as established by this
chapter, the land involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for
the purposes of this chapter, and no portion of said parcel shall be used or
sold which does not meet lot width and area requirements established by this
chapter, nor shall any division of the parcel be made which leaves remaining
any lot width or area below the requirements stated in this chapter.
   6.   Nonconforming Uses of Land. Where, at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter, lawful use of land exists that is made no longer
permissible under the terms of this chapter as enacted or amended, such use may
be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions:
      A.   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged nor increased nor
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
      B.   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective date
of adoption of amendment of this chapter.
      C.   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than six months, as determined by the Administrative Officer,
any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the regulations specified by
this chapter for the district in which such land is located.
   7.   Nonconforming Structures. Where a lawful structure exists at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter that could not be
constructed under the terms of this chapter by reason of restriction on area,
lot coverage, height, yards, or other characteristics of the structure or its
location on the lot, such structure may be continued for as long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      A.   No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which
increases its nonconformity.
      B.   Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more
than 50 percent of its replacement cost at the time of destruction, it shall
not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of the chapter.
   8.   Nonconforming Uses of Structures. If a lawful use of a structure or of
structure and land in combination exists at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter that would not be allowed in the district under the
terms of this chapter, the use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise
lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      A.   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter
in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located.
      B.   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
structure which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time
of adoption or amendment of this chapter, but no such use shall be extended to
occupy any land outside such structure.
      C.   If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a
structure or structure and land in combination may be changed to another
nonconforming use provided that the Board of Adjustment, either by general rule
or by making findings in the specific case, shall find that the proposed use is
equally appropriate or more appropriate to the district than the existing
nonconforming use. In permitting such change, the Board may require appropriate
conditions and safeguards in accord with the provisions of this chapter.
      D.   Any structure or structure and land in combination in or on which a
nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the district in which such structure is located, and the
nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
      E.   When a nonconforming use of a structure or structure and land in
combination is discontinued for six consecutive months or for 18 months during
any three-year period, the structure thereafter shall not be used except in
conformance with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
      F.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and land in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land.
   9.   Repairs and Maintenance. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
maintenance and repair of nonconforming structures to keep such a structure in
sound and safe condition, provided that no structural enlargement, extension,
alteration, or change shall be made to increase the degree of nonconformity.
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening of or
restoring to a safe condition of any structure or part declared to be unsafe by
any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of such
official.
   10.   Restrictions on Division of Parcels. No parcel, whether or not in
compliance with this Code, shall be divided in any manner if the result would
be a remaining parcel or parcels that would not be in compliance with this Code
as to any of its requirements.
   11.   Uses Under Special Exception Provisions, Not Nonconforming Uses. Any
uses for which a special exception is permitted as provided in this chapter
shall not be deemed a nonconforming use, but shall without further action be
deemed a conforming use in such district.
 
165.29   HOME OCCUPATION REGULATIONS.
Regulations pertaining to home occupations are designed to protect and maintain
the residential character of a neighborhood while permitting certain limited
commercial activities.
   1.   Restrictions on Home Occupations. The following requirements must be
met for an activity or occupation to qualify as a home occupation.
      A.   The occupation or activity must be clearly incidental and secondary
to the use of the premises as a dwelling. The occupation or activity shall not
occupy more than 25 percent of the floor area of a building, not to exceed 400
square feet.
      B.   The occupation or activity must be carried on wholly within a main
building or approved accessory building.
      C.   No stock in trade or food or commodities may be sold on the premises
as a primary source of income.
      D.   No external alterations or special construction of the premises can
be done. No exterior indication, except for the permitted sign, that the
building is being used for any purpose other than a dwelling shall exist.
      E.   No occupations or activities are permitted which are noxious,
offensive, or hazardous by reason of pedestrian or vehicular traffic or by
creation of noise, odor, refuse, heat, vibration, smoke, dust, glare,
radiation, or other objectionable emissions or by interference with television
or radio reception.
      F.   No substantial volumes of vehicular traffic or parking demand shall
be created.
      G.   No advertising sign shall be displayed except for an unlighted name
plate flat against the building not exceeding two square feet in area, stating
only the resident’s name and occupation.
      H.   There shall be no off-premises signs, radio, television, newspaper,
handbill, or similar advertisement linking the premises with the home
occupation. The advertisement of the home occupation within a telephone
directory, excluding the address, is permitted. Also permitted is the
advertisement of the resident’s name, home occupation, and phone number only
within a newspaper.
      I.   The activity shall not involve any outside storage nor in any way
create, outside the building, any external evidence of the operation.
   2.   Activities Permitted. Permitted home occupations include, but are not
limited to, the following list of activities; provided, however, that each
permitted home occupation is subject to the limitations in the preceding
division and to all other applicable regulations to the district in which it is
located.
      A.   Studio of an artist, photographer, craftsman, writer, or composer;
      B.   A family day care facility operating under the provisions of Chapter
237A of the Code of Iowa. An exception is hereby established in the case of
family day care facilities under Chapter 237A of the Code of Iowa. The
exception pertains to the restriction that only resident members of the family
can be employed on the premises. Where Chapter 237A of the Code of Iowa
requires additional employees, those employees may be nonresidential, non-
members of the family, provided a member or members of the family are the
licensed or registered party and are in charge of the family day care facility.
Inspection by the Fire Chief of all family day care facilities is required;
      C.   Domestic service activities such as sewing, tailoring, and
laundering;
      D.   Pet clipping;
      E.   Barber shop and beauty shop;
      F.   Carpentry shop, cabinet making, upholstering, furniture repair,
refinishing, sign making, or other similar occupations;
      G.   Home-based businesses where the service is provided off-premises;
      H.   Sale of real estate or insurance;
      I.   Office of a physician or dentist for consultation or emergency
treatment, but not for general professional practice;
      J.   Teaching, limited to not more than six pupils at one time;
      K.   Telemarketing, computer programming, and repair and services
provided over the internet; and
      L.   Mail order businesses where products are shipped directly from the
supplier to the customer.
   3.   Parking. Off-street parking, other than in a front yard, shall be
provided for all home occupations. At least four off-street parking spaces are
required for barber shops and beauty shops; all other uses shall comply with
the parking requirements found in Section
165.25.
   4.   Variance. Variances from the requirements under this section shall be
heard by the Board of Adjustment.
165.30   AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES OF THIS ORDINANCE.
   1.   The Council may, on its own motion or on petition, amend any portion of
this Zoning Code. Any proposed amendment shall be submitted to the Planning and
Zoning Commission; which shall make a report to the Council within 30 days
after the proposal has been submitted. All other procedures shall be the same
as those required of the Council for amendment of any other ordinance.
   2.   Application For Change of Zoning District Boundaries. Any person may
submit to the Council an application requesting a change in the zoning district
boundaries as shown on the Official Zoning Map. The application shall be
accompanied by a fee of $250.00 payable to the City; and the applicant shall
pay any actual costs incurred by the City in this rezoning process that exceed
$250.00.
      A.   Such application shall be filed with the Administrative Officer and
shall contain the following information:
         (1)   The legal description and local address of the property, and
         (2)   The present zoning classification and the zoning classification
requested for the property, and
         (3)   The existing use and proposed use of the property, and
         (4)   The names and addresses of the owners of all property within 200
feet of the exterior boundaries of the property for which the change is
requested, and
         (5)   A statement of the reasons why the applicant feels the present
zoning classification is no longer valid, and
         (6)   A plat showing the locations, dimensions and use of the
applicant’s property and all property within 200 feet of the exterior
boundaries thereof, including streets, alleys, railroads, and other physical
features.
      B.   Upon receipt of the application by the Administrative Officer, a
copy shall be forwarded immediately to the Planning and Zoning Commission for
study and recommendation. The Commission shall, prior to making a
recommendation, determine the following:
         (1)   Whether or not the current district classification of the
property to be rezoned is valid, and
         (2)   Whether there is a need for additional land zoned for the
purpose requested, and
         (3)   Whether the proposed change is consistent with the current land
use plan, considering such factors as:
            a.   Whether the rezoning would result in a population density or
development which would in turn cause a demand for services and utilities in
excess of the capacity planned for the area, and
            b.   Whether the rezoning would result in the generating of traffic
in excess of the capacity of existing or planned streets in the vicinity, and
         (4)   Whether there is an intent on the part of the applicant to
develop the property to be rezoned diligently and within a reasonable time.
      C.   The Commission shall report its determinations and recommendations
to the Council within 30 days from receipt of the application, except that when
no report is issued within that time, the application will be deemed approved
by the Commission. The Council shall then follow the procedures required of the
Council for amendment of any other ordinance.
165.31   ZONING OF ANNEXED LAND.
All land annexed into the City shall be placed in a zoning district most
closely providing for the land use on said annexed land, or if undeveloped
land, then a zoning district shall be assigned which in the judgment of the
Council best provides for the land use plans of the landowner and also provides
for the City’s public interest and community planning goals. Such zoning
district assignment shall be identified in the annexation resolution or
agreement and adopted by ordinance following normal City ordinance procedures.
Such ordinance shall be adopted within 90 days of such land(s) being annexed to
the City. Any land annexed to the City without a zoning district assigned at
the time of annexation shall automatically have been placed in the R-
1 Residential Zoning District.
165.32   INTERPRETATION, PURPOSE, AND CONFLICT.
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, it shall be held
to be a minimum requirement for the promotion of the public safety, health,
convenience, comfort, prosperity, or general welfare. It is not intended by
this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants,
or other agreements between the parties. However, where this chapter imposes a
greater restriction than is imposed by other ordinances, regulations,
easements, covenants, or agreements, the provisions of this chapter shall
govern.
165.33   RATE SCHEDULE FOR ZONING CODE PERMITS.
Rate Schedule for Zoning Code Permits
Rate Schedule for Zoning Code Permits
Location Permit Type                            Rate
A Mobile Home Locations Permit                  $35.00
Location permit or construction compliance for
decks, fences, continuous shrubbery, or utility $35.00
sheds up to $5,000.00 value (per item)
Home Occupation Permit                          $35.00
Demolition Permit                               $35.00
Location Permit or Construction Compliance      Rate
Permit for all Other Structures (per structure)
Building value up to $50,000.00                 $75.00
Building value over $50,000.00 and up to        $125.00
$100,000.00
Building value over $100,000.00 and up to       $2.00 per thousand of valuation
$500,000.00 +
Resolution No. 1024 monthly compensation for Zoning Administrative Officer
shall be 50 percent of the fee charged for each permit issued plus $250.00 per
month.
 
165.34   ZONING MAP CHANGES.
 
EDITOR’S NOTE
The Postville Zoning Regulations adopted November 8, 2021, by Ordinance No.
696-21 and amendments thereto are a part of this Code of Ordinances and are
in full force and effect. The following ordinances have been adopted
amending the Official Zoning Map of the City and have not been codified
herein but are specifically saved from repeal and are in full force and
effect.
ORDINANCE ADOPTED          ORDINANCE ADOPTED
677-16    February 8, 2016
 
CHAPTER 170
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
170.01 Purpose 170.24 Utilities
170.02 Policy  170.25 Preservation of Natural Features and Amenities
170.03
Application    170.26 Nonresidential Subdivisions
and
Jurisdiction
170.04         170.27 School and Park Reservations
Interpretation
170.05 Action
Under Prior    170.28 Action by the Commission - Preliminary Plat
Provisions
170.06         170.29 Action by the Council - Preliminary Plat
Definitions
170.07         170.30 Effective Period of Tentative Approval
Procedure
170.08
Presubmission  170.31 Final Plat
Consultation
170.09
Requirements   170.32 Requirements of the Final Plat
of Preliminary
Plat
170.10
Submission of  170.33 Submission of Final Plat
Preliminary
Plat
170.11
Referral of    170.34 Referral of Final Plat
Preliminary
Plat
170.12 Review
of Preliminary 170.35 Action by Commission - Final Plat
Plat
170.13
Conformance to
Applicable     170.36 Action by Council - Final Plat
Rules and
Regulations
170.14
Subdivision    170.37 Resubdivision of Land
Name
170.15         170.38 Completion of Improvements
Monumentation
170.16
Character of   170.39 Variations and Exceptions
the Land
170.17 Lots    170.40 Changes and Amendments
170.18 Blocks  170.41 Enforcement, Violations, and Penalties
170.19
Streets;       170.42 Waiver of Requirements
General
Requirements
170.20
Streets;       170.43 Manufactured or Mobile Home Community Zoning
Design
Standards
170.21 Storm   170.44 PD - MH Planned Development – Manufactured or Mobile Home
Sewers and     Community
Drainage
170.22 Water
Facilities
170.23
Sewerage
Facilities
 
170.01   PURPOSE.  
The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum standards for the design,
development, and improvement of all new subdivisions and resubdivisions so that
existing developments will be protected and so that adequate provisions are
made for public services and to promote the health, safety, and general welfare
and to foster conformance with official City plans.
170.02   POLICY.  
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the City to consider the subdivision
of land and the subsequent development of the subdivided land as subject to the
control of the City to provide for the orderly, efficient, and economical
development of the City. And further:
   1.   Character of Land. Land to be subdivided shall be of such character
that it can be used safely for building purposes without danger to health or
peril from fire, flood, or other menace.
   2.   Regulations to Supplement and Facilitate. It is intended that these
subdivision regulations supplement and facilitate the enforcement of provisions
and standards, ordinances, or regulations of the City.
   3.   Review of Subdivision Plans. It is the policy of the City to review all
subdivision plans for accordance and compliance with general City plans and
policy regarding growth and development.
   4.   Intentions of City. It is the policy of the City to facilitate or
foster the development of housing and growth of the City tax base.
170.03   APPLICATION AND JURISDICTION.  
Every owner (or agent) of any tract or parcel of land lying within the
corporate limits of the City who has subdivided or shall subdivide the property
into three or more parts for the purpose of laying out an addition,
subdivision, building lot or lots, or acreage lots shall cause plats of such
area to be made in the form and containing the information as set forth in this
chapter before selling any lots contained in the subdivision or placing the
plat on record. Pursuant to the authority granted by Section 354.9 of the Code
of Iowa, the provisions of this section shall also apply to any of the
following areas lying outside the corporate limits of the City:
   1.   In Allamakee County: The South Half of Section 19, the South Half of
Section 20, the South Half of Section 21, the Southwest Quarter of the
Southwest Quarter of Section 22, the West Half of Section 26, Section 27,
Section 28, Section 29, Section 30, Section 31, Section 32, Section 33, Section
34, and the West Half of Section 35.
   2.   In Clayton County: The West Half of Section 2, Section 3, Section 4,
Section 5, Section 6, Section 7, Section 8, Section 9, Section 10, the
Northwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 11, the Northwest Quarter
of the Northwest Quarter of Section 15, the North Half of Section 16, and the
Northeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 17.
   3.   In Fayette County: Section 1, and the Northeast Quarter of the
Northeast Quarter of Section 12.
   4.   In Winneshiek County: The East Half of Section 25, and Section 36.
Any portion of the above described property lying more than two miles from the
boundaries of the City is exempt from these requirements.
170.04   INTERPRETATION.  
In their interpretation or application, the provisions of this chapter shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health,
safety, and general welfare. Specifically:
   1.   Relationship to Other Public Provisions. These regulations are not
intended to interfere with or abrogate or annul any other ordinance, rule or
regulation, statute, or other provision of law. Where any provision of these
regulations imposes a restriction different from those imposed by any other
provision of this chapter or any other ordinance, rule or regulation or other
provision of law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher
standards shall control.
   2.   Relationship to Private Provisions. These regulations are not intended
to abrogate any easement, covenant or any other private agreement or
restriction, provided that where the provisions of this chapter are more
restrictive or impose higher standards or regulations than such easement,
covenant or other private agreement or restriction, the requirements of these
regulations shall govern.
170.05   ACTION UNDER PRIOR PROVISIONS.  
This chapter does not abate any action now pending under or by virtue of prior
existing subdivision regulations. Nor do they discontinue, abate, modify, or
alter any penalty accrued or about to accrue or affect the liability of any
person or waive any right of the City under any section or provision existing
at the time of the adoption of these regulations. Nor do they vacate or annul
any rights obtained by any person, by lawful action of the City except as
expressed in these regulations.
170.06   DEFINITIONS.  
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   Words beginning with “A.”
      A.   “Alley” means a public or private right-of-way primarily designed to
serve as secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose
principal frontage is on some other street.
      B.   “Applicant” means the owner of land to be subdivided or a
representative.
   2.   Words beginning with “B.”
      A.   “Block” means a tract of land bounded by streets or by a combination
of streets and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines of
waterways or corporate boundaries.
      B.   “Bond” means any form of security including a cash deposit, surety
bond, collateral, property, or instrument of credit in an amount and form
satisfactory to the Council.
      C.   “Building” means any structure built for support, shelter, or
enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or movable property of any kind and
includes any structure.
   3.   Words beginning with “C.”
      A.   “City Engineer” means the person designated by the Council to
furnish engineering assistance for the administration of this chapter.
      B.   “Commission” means the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City.
      C.   “Covenant” means a binding agreement made by two or more persons,
and by which one or more of the parties pledges to do or not do particular
acts.
      D.   “Cul-de-sac” means a municipal service street with only one outlet
and having an appropriate terminal for safe and convenient reversal of traffic
movement.
   4.   Words beginning with “D.”
      A.   “Developer” means the owner of land proposed to be subdivided or a
representative.
   5.   Words beginning with “E.”
      A.   “Easement” means an authorization by a property owner for the use by
another, and for a specified purpose, of any designated part of said person’s
property.
   6.   Words beginning with “F.”
      A.   “Frontage” means that portion of a lot abutting on a street or way
and complying with the setback and front yard requirements as they may exist,
but it shall not be considered as the side of a corner lot.
   7.   Words beginning with “G.”
   8.   Words beginning with “H.”
   9.   Words beginning with “I.”
   10.   Words beginning with “J.”
   11.   Words beginning with “K.”
   12.   Words beginning with “L.”
      A.   “Local Board of Health” means a County, City, or District Board of
Health.
      B.   “Lot” means a portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land
intended for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership
or for building development.
   13.   Words beginning with “M.”
      A.   “Municipal arterial streets” means streets which connect principal
traffic generating areas or connect such areas with other street systems.
      B.   “Municipal collector streets” means those streets that collect
traffic from municipal service streets and connect to other street systems.
      C.   “Municipal service streets” means those streets that primarily
provide access to property.
   14.   Words beginning with “N.”
   15.   Words beginning with “O.”
      A.   “Owner” means any person having legal title to or sufficient
proprietary interest in the land to be sought to be subdivided under this
chapter.
   16.   Words beginning with “P.”
      A.   “Plat” means a map, drawing, or chart on which the developer’s plan
of the subdivision of land is presented and which the developer submits for
approval and intends in final form to record.
      B.   “Public improvement” means any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway,
sidewalk, pedestrian crosswalk, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot
improvement or other facility for which the local government may ultimately
assume the responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an
improvement for which local government responsibility is established.
   17.   Words beginning with “Q.”
   18.   Words beginning with “R.”
      A.   “Right-of-way” means a strip of land occupied or intended to be
occupied by a street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line,
oil or gas pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees or
for another special use. The usage of the term “right-of-way” for land platting
purposes means that every right-of-way hereafter established and shown on a
final plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining
such right-of-way and not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots
or parcels. Rights-of-way intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains,
sanitary sewers, storm drains or any other use involving maintenance by a
public agency shall be dedicated to public use by the maker of the plat on
which such right-of-way is established.
      B.   “Roadway” means that portion of the street available for vehicular
traffic and where curbs are laid, the portion from back to back of curbs.
   19.   Words beginning with “S.”
      A.   “Street” means and includes any public way, highway, street, avenue,
boulevard, parkway, or other public thoroughfare, and each of such words
includes every other of them, and includes the entire width between property
lines.
      B.   “Subdivider” means a person undertaking the subdivision or
resubdivision of a tract or parcel of land.
      C.   “Subdivision” means the division of land into three or more lots or
other division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
transfer of ownership or building development. The term, when appropriate to
the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided or
the resubdivision of land heretofore divided or platted into lots or other
divisions of land or, if a new street is involved, to any division of land.
      D.   “Surveyor” means a land surveyor licensed and registered under the
provisions of Chapter 542B of the Code of Iowa.
   20.   Words beginning with “T.”
   21.   Words beginning with “U.”
   22.   Words beginning with “V.”
   23.   Words beginning with “W.”
   24.   Words beginning with “X.”
   25.   Words beginning with “Y.”
   26.   Words beginning with “Z.”
170.07   PROCEDURE.  
In obtaining final approval of a proposed subdivision by the Council, the
subdivider shall submit a preliminary plat in accordance with the requirements
of Section
170.09 and install the required improvements or provide a performance bond.
170.08   PRESUBMISSION CONSULTATION.  
Prior to the submission of the preliminary plat of any subdivision, the
subdivider is encouraged to meet with the City Engineer and other City
officials responsible for the administration of these regulations to be advised
of the procedural steps, design standards, required improvements and platting
requirements. During such meeting, no commitments shall be made which will be
binding upon the City. Additional purposes or intentions for the presubmission
consultation are:
   1.   For the developer and the City to come to a preliminary, mutual
agreement on the economic feasibility of the proposed development.
   2.   In exchange for the City doing engineering and construction of public
works infrastructure, the developer must agree to the placement of assessments
against the property. The property assessment arrangement shall be made in the
final plat approval process.
   3.   This consultation is intended to help the developer plan a subdivision
based on realistic housing demands and of prudent size, which will produce the
revenue necessary to pay the infrastructure assessments. The City’s intentions
are to avoid the extension of unneeded public infrastructure, and to avoid the
unnecessary placement of public works assessments, if a sufficient amount of
development does not occur.
   4.   A written record of this consultation shall be made, including copies
of all material, maps, and data that are used as a basis for proceeding with a
preliminary plat.
170.09   REQUIREMENTS OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.  
Every proposed subdivision shall be submitted for tentative approval in the
form of a preliminary plat prior to the submission of a final record plat. The
purpose of the preliminary plat and accompanying material is to provide all
facts needed for the Planning and Zoning Commission and Council to determine
whether the proposed subdivision is satisfactory from the standpoint of the
public interest. The following graphic and descriptive material is required to
be provided on the preliminary plat and in the accompanying material:
   1.   Contents of Preliminary Plat. The preliminary plat shall be prepared by
a registered land surveyor at a convenient scale of not more than one inch
equals 100 feet, may be prepared in pen or pencil, and the sheets shall be
numbered in sequence if more than one sheet is used. The following information
shall be shown on the preliminary plat:
      A.   Title, scale, north point, and date.
      B.   Subdivision boundary lines, showing dimensions, bearings, angles,
and references to section, townships and range lines or corners. Exterior
boundaries are to be indicated with a solid heavy line.
      C.   Present and proposed streets, alleys and sidewalks, with their
rights-of-way, in or adjoining the subdivision, including dedicated widths,
approximate gradients, types and widths of surfaces, curbs and plating strips
and location of streetlights, fire hydrants and street signs.
      D.   Proposed layout of blocks and lots showing dimensions, radii,
chords, and the square foot areas of lots that are not rectangular and the lot
and block number in numerical order.
      E.   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for schools,
parks, playgrounds, or other public, semi-public or community purposes.
      F.   Present and proposed easements, showing locations, widths, purposes,
and limitations.
      G.   Location and names of adjoining parcels of unsubdivided and
subdivided land.
      H.   Boundaries of the highest known flood of record affecting the
subdivision and the source of information.
      I.   If the proposed subdivision borders on a lake or stream, the
distances and bearings of meander line established not less than 50 feet back
from the mean high water mark of the lake or stream.
      J.   Existing blocks, lots, and buildings.
      K.   Present and proposed utility systems, including sanitary and storm
sewers, other drainage facilities, water lines, gas mains, cable TV, telephone
lines, fiber optics, electric utilities, and other facilities, with the size,
capacity, invert elevation and location of each. If the subdivision is within
one mile of public sewer or water or both, notation shall be made of the
direction and distance to such facilities.
      L.   Proposed name of the subdivision.
      M.   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, builder, and surveyor
who prepared the preliminary plat and the surveyor who will prepare the final
plat.
      N.   Official legal description of the property being platted.
      O.   Contours at vertical intervals of not more than two feet if the
general slope of the site is less than 10 percent and at vertical intervals of
not more than five feet if the general slope is 10 percent or greater.
      P.   Existing and proposed zoning of the proposed subdivision and
adjoining property.
      Q.   Location of all proposed monuments.
   2.   Information to be Provided in Accompanying Material. The following
information shall accompany a plat.
      A.   A complete listing of all existing covenants which apply to the land
to be subdivided and a complete listing of all covenants which are proposed by
the developer to apply to the subdivided land.
      B.   A table of the following information:
         (1)   Total acreage of subdivision;
         (2)   Total number of lots;
         (3)   Minimum, average and maximum lot area;
         (4)   Acreage of public lands to be dedicated or reserved other than
streets.
      C.   An attorney’s opinion showing that the fee title to the property
proposed for subdividing is in the owner’s name as shown on the plat and
showing any encumbrances that may exist against the land.
      D.   If any portion of the subdivision is to have access on a State or
County jurisdictional street, a written and signed statement acknowledging and
permitting the access by the duly authorized official of the appropriate
jurisdiction.
      E.   Specifications and engineering construction drawings including
profiles, cross-sections, and details of all public improvements. Elevations
shall be referred to mean sea level as exhibited in standard U.S. Geological
Survey Maps. Specifications and references shall meet those required by the
City’s construction and specification standards, including a site grading plan
for the entire subdivision.
      F.   If a preliminary plat shows only a part of a property or site, the
balance of which would be developed later, then a map shall also be submitted
which shows the general development concept for the entire property.
170.10   SUBMISSION OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.  
The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat in accordance with the
provisions of Section
170.09 and shall file with the Clerk an application in triplicate for the
tentative approval of the plat. The application shall:
   1.   Form and Fees. Be made on forms available from the Clerk together with
a fee of $25.00 per lot.
   2.   Number of Plats. Be accompanied by a minimum of six copies of the
preliminary plat.
   3.   Time of Submission. Be presented to the Clerk at least four weeks prior
to the regular meeting of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
170.11   REFERRAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.  
The Clerk shall immediately refer two copies of the preliminary plat to the
City Engineer, two copies to the Planning and Zoning Commission, and two copies
to the Public Works Director. In the case of a subdivision outside the
corporate limits of the City, the Clerk shall refer one copy of the preliminary
plat to the County Board of Supervisors.
170.12   REVIEW OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.  
The preliminary plat shall be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission to
(a) determine its conformity with this chapter, (b) determine its conformity
with all other ordinances and regulations in force affecting subdivisions, (c)
determine its conformity with adopted City plans, and (d) determine its
conformity specifically with the requirements of Section
170.13 through
170.27 of this chapter. Copies of the preliminary plat may be transmitted to
other City or school officials, as the Planning and Zoning Commission deems
necessary, for their recommendations concerning matters within their
jurisdictions. Their recommendations, along with those of the City Engineer,
shall be transmitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission within three weeks
after the date the plat is filed. The Planning and Zoning Commission may confer
with the subdivider on changes deemed advisable and the kind and extent of such
improvements to be made.
170.13   CONFORMANCE TO APPLICABLE RULES AND REGULATIONS.  
In addition to the requirements established herein, all subdividers shall
comply with the following laws, rules, and regulations:
   1.   State Statutes. All applicable statutes of the State.
   2.   City Plans. Any comprehensive plan, public utilities plan and capital
improvements program of the City.
   3.   State Agency Rules. The requirements and rules of State agencies such
as the State Department of Natural Resources, State Department of Health, and
the State Department of Transportation, where applicable.
   4.   County Standards and Regulations. The standards and regulations of the
County Board of Supervisors and County Planning and Zoning Commissions, boards,
and agencies where applicable.
   5.   City Standards and Regulations. The standards and regulations adopted
by the Council, boards, Planning and Zoning Commissions and agencies of the
City.
   6.   Plat Approval and Conformity. Plat approval may be withheld if a
subdivision is not in conformance with the above guides, or policy and purposes
of these regulations.
170.14   SUBDIVISION NAME.  
The proposed name of the subdivision shall not duplicate or too closely
approximate phonetically the name of any other subdivision in the area covered
by these regulations. The Council, after consultation with the Planning and
Zoning Commission, shall have the final authority to designate the name of the
subdivision which shall be determined at preliminary plat approval.
170.15   MONUMENTATION.  
Monuments shall be in conformance with the following requirements:
   1.   Establishment of Permanent Control Monuments. Prior to the offering of
the plat of any subdivision for record, the surveyor shall confirm the prior
establishment of permanent control monuments at each controlling corner on the
boundaries of the parcel or tract of land being subdivided. If no permanent
control monuments exist, the surveyor shall establish at least two permanent
control monuments for each block created, or if the area subdivided into lots
is less than a block in size, at least two permanent control monuments shall be
established for the subdivision. Permanent control monuments shall be
constructed of reasonably permanent material solidly embedded in the ground and
capable of being detected by commonly used magnetic or electronic equipment.
The surveyor shall affix a cap of reasonably inert material bearing an embossed
or stencil cut marking of the Iowa registration number of the surveyor to the
top of the monument.
   2.   Other Monuments of Record. Other monuments established prior to the
recording of the plat of the subdivision and described on the plat shall be
considered monuments of record and shall be given the same weight as original
permanent control monuments if the monuments remain undisturbed in their
original positions. The additional monuments shall be constructed and embedded
according to the provisions for permanent control monuments prescribed in
Subsection 1 of this section.
   3.   Establishment and Recording of Other Monuments. Monuments other than
the permanent control monuments required in Subsection 1 of this section shall
not be required to be establishment before the recording of the plat or the
conveyancing of lands by reference to the plat if the surveyor includes in the
certification of the plat that the additional monuments required by these
regulations shall be establishment before a specified future date.
   4.   Additional Monuments Required. Additional monuments shall be
constructed and embedded according to the provisions for permanent control
monuments prescribed in Subsection 1 of this section, and shall be set at all
of the following locations whether set prior to the recording of the plat or
subsequent to such recording:
      A.   At every corner and angle point of every lot, block or parcel of
land created.
      B.   At every point of intersection of the outer boundary of the
subdivision with an existing or created right-of-way line of any street,
railroad, or other way.
      C.   At every point of curve, tangency, reversed curve or compounded
curve on every right-of-way line established.
   5.   Placement of Monument. When the placement of a monument required by
this chapter at the prescribed location is impractical, it is permissible to
establish a reference monument in close proximity to the prescribed location.
If the reference monument is established prior to the recording of the plat and
its location properly shown on the plat, the reference monument shall have the
same status as other monuments of record. Where any point requiring
monumentation has been previously monumented, the existence of the monument
shall be confirmed by the surveyor. The existing monument shall be considered a
monument of record when properly shown and described on the recorded plat.
170.16   CHARACTER OF THE LAND.  
Land which the City finds to be unsuitable for subdivision or development due
to flooding, improper drainage, steep slopes, rock formations, adverse earth
formations or topography, utility easements or other features which will
reasonably be harmful to the safety, health and general welfare of the present
or future inhabitants of the subdivision or its surrounding areas or both,
shall not be subdivided or developed unless adequate methods are formulated by
the subdivider and approved by the Council, upon recommendation of the Planning
and Zoning Commission, to solve the problems created by the unsuitable land
conditions. Such land shall be set aside for uses as shall not involve such a
danger.
170.17   LOTS.  
The lot size, width, depth, shape, and orientation shall be appropriate for the
location of the subdivision and for the type of development and use
contemplated.
   1.   Lot Size. Minimum lot dimensions and sizes shall conform to the
requirements of the zoning regulations where applicable, but in no case shall a
lot contain less than 6,500 square feet of area or be less than 60 feet wide
measured at the building line.
      A.   Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for commercial
and industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off-street service
and parking facilities required by the type of use and development
contemplated.
      B.   Corner lots for residential use shall have an extra 20 feet of width
to permit appropriate building setback from and orientation to both streets.
   2.   Street Access. Each lot shall be provided with satisfactory access to a
public street.
   3.   Double Frontage and Reverse Frontage Lots. Double frontage and reverse
frontage lots shall be avoided except where essential to provide separation of
residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific
disadvantages of topography and orientation. A planting screen easement of at
least 10 feet, and across which there shall be no right of access, shall be
provided along the line of lots abutting such a traffic artery or other
disadvantageous use.
   4.   Side Lot Lines. Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles
to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   5.   Lot Drainage. Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage
away from all buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with
the general storm drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so
as to avoid concentration of storm drainage water from each lot to adjacent
lots.
170.18   BLOCKS.  
Blocks shall conform to the following requirements:
   1.   Provision for Lots. Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for
two tiers of lots of appropriate depths. Exceptions shall be permitted in
blocks adjacent to arterial streets, railroads, or waterways.
   2.   Design Considerations. The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall
be determined with due regard to:
      A.   Provision for adequate building sites.
      B.   Zoning requirements where applicable.
      C.   Topography.
      D.   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control, and safety of
street traffic.
   3.   Block Lengths. The lengths of blocks shall be appropriate to the type
of development contemplated, but block lengths in residential developments
shall not exceed 1,320 feet, nor be less than 300 feet. Wherever feasible,
blocks along arterial and collector streets shall not be less than 600 feet in
length.
   4.   Easement Reservation. The Planning and Zoning Commission and the
Council may require the reservation of easements through any block or at other
necessary locations to accommodate utilities, drainage, pedestrian traffic,
recreational trails, or other necessary public facilities. In blocks over 800
feet in length, the Council may require the reservation of an easement to
accommodate utilities, drainage facilities or pedestrian traffic.
   5.   Pedestrian Crosswalks. Pedestrian crosswalks, not less than 10 feet
wide, may be required by the Council through the center of blocks more than 800
feet in length. Pedestrian crosswalks shall not exceed 12 percent in grade
unless steps of an approved design are to be constructed.
170.19   STREETS; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.  
Streets shall conform with the following general requirements:
   1.   Frontage on Improvement Roads. No subdivision shall be approved unless
the area to be subdivided shall have frontage on and access from an existing
street.
   2.   Grading and Improvement Plan. Streets shall be graded and improved and
conform to the City construction standards and specifications and shall be
approved as to design and specifications by the City Engineer, in accordance
with the construction plans required to be submitted.
   3.   Topography and Arrangement. Streets shall be in conformance with the
following requirements related to topography and arrangement:
      A.   Streets shall be related appropriately to the topography. All
streets shall be arranged so as to obtain as many as possible of the building
sites at or above the grades of the streets. Grades of streets shall conform as
closely as possible to the original topography. A combination of steep grades
and curves shall be avoided. Specific standards are contained in the design
standards of this chapter.
      B.   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and
proposed system of streets and dedicated right-of-way.
      C.   All arterials shall be properly related to special traffic
generators such as industries, business districts, schools, churches, and
shopping centers, to population densities and to the pattern of existing and
proposed land uses.
      D.   Municipal service streets shall be laid out to conform as much as
possible to the topography to discourage use by through traffic, to permit
efficient drainage and utility systems, and to require the minimum number of
streets necessary to provide convenient and safe access to property.
      E.   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the
tract to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical
conditions, or unless, in the opinion of the Council, such extension is not
necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of the subdivision
with the existing layout of the most advantageous future development of
adjacent tracts.
      F.   In business and industrial developments, the streets and other
accessways shall be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings,
location of rail facilities and the provision of alleys, truck loading and
maneuvering areas, and walks and parking areas so as to minimize conflict of
movement between the various types of traffic, including pedestrian.
   4.   Access to State or County Jurisdictional Roads. Whenever any part of a
subdivision is designed with access to a road under State or County
jurisdiction, permission for access to such roads shall be obtained from the
appropriate jurisdiction and such access shall be designed according to the
standards of the appropriate jurisdiction.
   5.   Access to Arterial Streets. Where a subdivision borders on or contains
an existing or proposed arterial street, the Council may require that lot
access to such streets be limited by one of the following means:
      A.   Lots shall be designed so as to back onto the primary arterial and
front onto a parallel municipal service street; no access shall be provided
from the arterial street, and screening shall be provided in a strip of land
along the rear property line of such lots.
      B.   A series of cul-de-sacs entered from and designed generally at right
angles to such a parallel street, with the rear lines of their terminal lots
backing onto the arterial street.
      C.   A frontage or service road, separated from the primary arterial by a
planting or grass strip and having access thereto at suitable points.
   6.   Street Names. Streets that are in alignment with others already
existing shall bear the names of the existing streets. The proposed names of
new streets shall not duplicate or sound similar to existing street names.
Street names shall be subject to the approval of the Council and Planning and
Zoning Commission. The City shall forward all proposed street names to the
addressing official of the appropriate County 9-1-1 service board for review so
as to avoid duplication or confusion within the City emergency service zones.
   7.   Street Name Signs. Street name signs are to be placed at all
intersections within or abutting the subdivision, the type and location of
which are to be approved by the Council. The City shall install all street name
signs.
   8.   Street Lights. Installation of street lights shall be required in
accordance with design and specification standards approved by the Council.
   9.   Construction of Streets and Dead-End Streets. Streets and dead-end
streets shall be in conformance with the following requirements:
      A.   Construction of Streets. The arrangement of streets shall provide
for the continuation of principal streets between adjacent properties when such
continuation is necessary for convenient movement of traffic, effective fire
protection and for efficient provision of utilities. If the adjacent property
is undeveloped and the street must be a dead-end street temporarily, the right-
of-way shall be extended to the property line. A temporary “T” or “L” shaped
turnabout shall be provided on all temporary dead-end streets, with the
notation on the subdivision plat that land outside the normal street right-of-
way shall revert to abutters whenever the street is continued. The Council may
limit the length of temporary dead-end streets in accordance with the design
standards of these regulations.
      B.   Permanent Dead-End Streets. Where a road does not extend to the
boundary of the subdivision and its continuation is not required by the Council
for access to adjoining property, its terminus shall normally not be nearer to
such boundary than 150 feet. However, the Council may require the reservation
of an appropriate easement to accommodate drainage facilities, pedestrian
traffic, or utilities. A cul-de-sac turnaround shall be provided at the end of
a permanent dead-end street in accordance with City construction standards and
specifications. For greater convenience to traffic and more effective police
and fire protection, permanent dead-end streets shall, in general, be limited
in length in accordance with the design standards of this chapter.
170.20   STREETS; DESIGN STANDARDS.  
The following design standards apply to the design of streets:
   1.   General. In order to provide for streets of suitable location, width,
and improvement to accommodate prospective traffic and afford satisfactory
access to police, firefighting, snow removal, sanitation and street maintenance
equipment, and to coordinate streets so as to compose a convenient system and
avoid undue hardships to adjoining properties, the following design standards
for streets are required:
      A.   A tangent at least 100 feet long shall be introduced between reverse
curves on municipal arterial and municipal collector streets, and 75 feet on
municipal service streets.
      B.   When connecting street lines deflect from each other at any one
point by more than 10 degrees, they shall be connected by a curve with a radius
adequate to insure a sight distance of not less than 100 feet for municipal
service and municipal collector streets and of such greater radii as the
Council shall determined for special cases.
      C.   Minimum Roadway and Right-of-Way Standards.
         (1)   Municipal arterial streets shall have a right-of-way width of
not less than 80 feet and a roadway width of not less than 44 feet.
         (2)   Municipal collector streets shall have a right-of-way width of
not less than 60 feet and a roadway width of not less than 36 feet.
         (3)   Municipal service streets shall have a right-of-way width of not
less than 50 feet and a roadway width of not less than 26 feet.
         (4)   Frontage streets shall have a right-of-way width of not less
than 40 feet and a roadway width of not less than 26 feet.
         (5)   Cul-de-sacs shall meet all the requirements for a municipal
service street and, in addition, shall provide a turnaround with a right-of-way
radius of 50 feet and a roadway radius of 40 feet. No cul-de-sac shall exceed
500 feet in length.
      D.   Street grades, wherever feasible, shall not exceed the following:
         (1)   Municipal arterial streets - six percent;
         (2)   Municipal collector streets - eight percent;
         (3)   Municipal service streets - 10 percent;
         (4)   Frontage streets - six percent.
      E.   All changes in street grade shall be connected by vertical curves of
minimum length in feet equal to 20 times the algebraic difference in
percentages of grade.
      F.   No street grade shall be less than one-half of one percent.
   2.   Street Surfacing. Final specifications shall be prepared by or approved
by the City Engineer. Installation of curb and gutter, and surfacing of the
street shall be agreed upon by the City and the subdivider, and the actual work
shall be completed pursuant to a schedule determined by the City.
   3.   Excess Right-of-Way. Right-of-way widths in excess of the standards
designated in this chapter shall be required whenever, due to topography,
additional width is necessary to provide adequate earth slopes. Such slopes
shall not be in excess of three to one.
   4.   Railroads and Limited Access Highways. Railroad rights-of-way and
limited access highways where so located as to affect the subdivision of
adjoining lands shall be treated as follows:
      A.   In residential districts a buffer strip at least 25 feet in depth in
addition to the normal depth of the lot required in the district shall be
provided adjacent to the railroad right-of-way or limited access highway. This
strip shall be part of the platted lots and shall be designated on the plat:
“This strip is reserved for screening. The placement of structures hereon is
prohibited.”
      B.   In districts zoned for business, commercial or industrial uses, the
nearest street extending parallel or approximately parallel to the railroad
shall, wherever practicable, be at a sufficient distance therefrom to ensure
suitable depth for commercial or industrial sites.
      C.   Streets parallel to the railroad when intersecting a street which
crosses the railroad at grade shall, to the extent practicable, be at a
distance of at least 150 feet from the railroad right-of-way. Such distance
shall be determined with due consideration of the minimum distance required for
future separation of grades by means of appropriate approach gradients.
   5.   Intersections. The following standards shall apply to the design of
intersections:
      A.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles. A proposed intersection of two new streets at an angle of less
than 75 degrees shall not be acceptable. An oblique street should be curved
approaching an intersection and should be approximately at right angles for at
least 100 feet therefrom. Not more than two streets shall intersect at any one
point unless specifically approved by the Council.
      B.   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street
shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any existing intersections on the
opposite side of such street. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than
150 feet shall not be permitted, except where the intersected street has
separated dual drives without median breaks at either intersection. Where
streets intersect major streets, their alignment shall be continuous.
Intersection of major streets shall be at least 800 feet apart.
      C.   Minimum curb radius at the intersection of two municipal service
streets shall be at least 20 feet; minimum curb radius at an intersection
involving a municipal collector street shall be at least 25 feet. Abrupt
changes in alignment within a block shall have the corners cut off in
accordance with standard engineering practice to permit safe vehicular
movement.
      D.   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical. In hilly or rolling areas, at the approach to an intersection, a
leveling area shall be provided having not greater than a two percent rate at a
distance of 60 feet, measured from the nearest right-of-way line of the
intersecting street.
      E.   Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or existing
vegetation inside any lot corner that would create a traffic hazard by limiting
visibility, the developer shall cut such ground or vegetation, including trees,
in connection with the grading of the public right-of-way to the extent deemed
necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
      F.   The cross slopes on all streets, including intersections, shall be
three percent or less.
   6.   Bridges. Bridges of primary benefit to the applicant, as determined by
the Council, shall be constructed at the full expense of the applicant without
reimbursement from the City. The sharing of expense for the construction of
bridges not of primary benefit to the applicant, as determined by the Council,
will be fixed by special agreement between the Council and the applicant. Said
cost shall be charged to the applicant pro rata as the percentage of land
developed and so served.
   7.   Alleys. The following design standards for alleys shall be required of
all subdividers:
      A.   Alleys shall be prohibited in residential districts.
      B.   Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts,
except that the Council may waive this requirement where other definite and
assured provision is made for service access, such as off-street loading,
unloading, and parking consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed.
      C.   Alleys shall have a right-of-way of not less than 30 feet and a
roadway width of not less than 20 feet.
      D.   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided,
but where necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit safe
vehicular movement.
      E.   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if unavoidable,
shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead end, as
determined by the Council.
   8.   Street Dedications and Reservations. The following provisions apply to
street dedications and reservations:
      A.   Street systems in new subdivisions shall be laid out so as to
eliminate or avoid new perimeter half streets. Where an existing half street is
adjacent to a new subdivision, the other half of the street shall be improved
and dedicated by the subdivider. The Council may authorize a new perimeter
street where the subdivider improves and dedicates the entire required street
right-of-way width within the subdivision boundaries.
      B.   Where a subdivision borders an existing narrow street or when City
plans or zoning setback regulations indicate plans for realignment or widening
a road that would require use of some of the land in the subdivision, the
applicant shall be required to improve and dedicate at the subdivider’s expense
such areas for widening or realignment of such roads. Such frontage roads and
streets shall be improved and dedicated by the applicant at the applicant’s
expense to the full width as required by this chapter. Land reserved for any
street purposes may not be counted in satisfying yard or area requirements of
the zoning regulations whether the land is to be dedicated to the City in fee
simple or an easement is granted to the City.
170.21   STORM SEWERS AND DRAINAGE.  
The following requirements apply to the provision of storm sewers and drainage.
   1.   General. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall not recommend for
approval any plat of a subdivision which does not make adequate provision for
storm or flood water run-off channels or basins. The stormwater drainage system
shall be separate and independent of any sanitary sewer system. Storm sewers,
where required, shall be designed by methods as approved by the Council, and a
copy of design computations shall be submitted along with plans. Inlets shall
be provided so that surface water is not carried across or around any
intersection, or for a distance of more than 600 feet in the gutter. When
calculations indicate that curb capacities are exceeded at a point, no further
allowance shall be made for flow beyond that point, and basins shall be used to
intercept flow at that point. Surface water drainage patterns shall be shown
for each and every lot and block.
   2.   Nature of Stormwater Facilities. The applicant may be required by the
Council to carry away by pipe or open ditch any spring or surface water that
may exist either previously to or as a result of the subdivision. Such drainage
facilities shall be located in the road right-of-way where feasible, or in
perpetual unobstructed easements of appropriate width and shall be constructed
in accordance with the construction standards and specifications.
      A.   Where a public storm sewer is accessible, the City may install storm
sewer facilities, or if no outlets are within a reasonable distance, adequate
provision may be made for the disposal of stormwaters, subject to the
specifications of the City Engineer. However, for platted areas containing lots
less than 15,000 square feet, and in commercial and industrial areas, the
Council, based on the advice of the City Engineer concerning potential storm-
water runoff quantities, may require that storm sewer with curb and gutter be
constructed as needed according to the determination of the Council. If such
facilities are not constructed as a part of the final plat resolution, they may
be constructed at any time by the City, with all or a portion of such cost
being assessed to the benefiting property owners.
      B.   If a connection to a public storm sewer will be provided eventually,
as determined by the Council, the subdivider shall make arrangements for future
stormwater disposal by a public storm sewer system at the time the plat
receives final approval. Provisions for such connection shall be incorporated
by inclusion in the performance bond required for the subdivision plat.
      C.   A culvert or other drainage facility shall in each case be large
enough to accommodate potential runoff from its entire upstream drainage area,
whether inside or outside the subdivision. The Council shall determine the
necessary size of the facility, based on the provisions of the construction
standards and specifications assuming conditions of maximum potential watershed
development permitted by applicable zoning regulations.
      D.   The Council shall also study the effect of each subdivision on
existing downstream drainage facilities outside the area of the subdivision.
City drainage studies together with such other studies as shall be appropriate
shall serve as a guide to needed improvements. Where it is anticipated that the
additional runoff incident to the development of the subdivision will overload
an existing downstream drainage facility, the Council may withhold approval of
the subdivision until provision has been made for the recovery of the cost for
the improvement of said potential condition in such sum as the Council shall
determine. No subdivision shall be approved unless adequate drainage will be
provided to an adequate drainage watercourse or facility.
      E.   The Council may, when it deems it necessary for the health, safety,
and welfare of the present and future population of the area and necessary to
the conservation of water, drainage, and sanitary facilities, prohibit the
subdivision of any portion of the property which lies within the flood plain of
any stream or drainage course.
   3.   Dedication of Drainage Easements. The following applies to the
dedication of drainage easements.
      A.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially to the lines of such watercourse, and of
such width and construction or both as will be adequate for the purpose.
Wherever possible, it is desirable that the drainage be maintained by an open
channel with landscaped banks and adequate width for maximum potential volume
of flow.
      B.   Drainage Easements.
         (1)   Where topography or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of drainage facilities within street rights-of-way,
perpetual unobstructed easements at least 15 feet in width for such drainage
facilities shall be provided across property outside the street lines and with
satisfactory access to the road. Easements shall be indicated on the plat.
Drainage easements shall be carried from the street to a natural watercourse or
to other drainage facilities.
         (2)   When a proposed drainage system will carry water across private
land outside the subdivision, appropriate drainage rights must be secured and
indicated on the plat.
         (3)   The applicant shall dedicate, either in fee or by drainage or
conservation easement of land on both sides of existing watercourses, to a
distance to be determined by the Council.
         (4)   Low-lying lands along watercourses subject to flooding or
overflowing during storm periods, whether or not included in areas for
dedication, shall be preserved and retained in their natural state as drainage
ways. Such land or lands subject to periodic flooding shall not be computed in
determining the area requirement of any lot.
170.22   WATER FACILITIES.  
Water facilities shall be provided as follows:
   1.   General Requirements. The following general requirements apply to the
provision of water facilities.
      A.   Where a public water main is accessible, the subdivider shall
install adequate water facilities, including fire hydrants, subject to City
specifications. All water mains shall be at least eight inches in diameter.
      B.   Water main extensions shall be approved by the City.
      C.   To facilitate the above, the location of all fire hydrants and all
water supply improvements shall be shown on the preliminary plat.
   2.   Fire Hydrants. Fire hydrants shall be required for all subdivisions.
Fire hydrants shall be located no more than 1,000 feet apart and within 500
feet of any structure and shall be approved by the City.
170.23   SEWERAGE FACILITIES.  
Sewerage facilities shall be provided as follows:
   1.   General Requirements. The City shall install sanitary sewer facilities
in a manner prescribed by the City construction standards and specifications.
All plans shall be designed in accordance with the rules, regulations and
standards of the City and the State Department of Natural Resources or State
Department of Health. Plans shall be approved by the above agencies.
   2.   Construction of Sanitary Sewerage Systems. Where a public sanitary
sewerage system is reasonably accessible the City shall connect with the same
and provide sewers accessible to each lot in the subdivision.
   3.   Water Supply Interconnections. There shall be no physical connection
between a public or private potable water supply system and a sewer which will
permit the passage of any sewage or polluted water into the potable supply.
Sewers shall be kept removed from water supply wells or other water supply
sources and structures.
170.24   UTILITIES.  
The following requirements apply to the provision of utilities:
   1.   Location. The Council may require that all utility facilities,
including, but not limited to gas, electric, power, telephone and CATV cables,
be located underground throughout the subdivision. All utility facilities
existing and proposed throughout the subdivision shall be shown on the
preliminary plat. Underground service connections to the street property line
of each platted lot shall be installed at the subdivider’s expense. At the
discretion of the Council, the requirement for service connections to each lot
may be waived in the case of adjoining lots to be retained in single ownership
and intended to be developed for the same primary use.
   2.   Easements. Easements shall be provided as follows:
      A.   Easements centered on rear lot lines shall be provided for
utilities. Such easements shall be at least 20 feet wide. Proper coordination
shall be established between the subdivider and the applicable utility
companies for the establishment of utility easements established in adjoining
properties.
      B.   Where topographical or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of utilities within the rear lot lines, perpetual
unobstructed easements at least 20 feet in width shall be provided alongside
lot lines with satisfactory access to the street or rear lot lines. Easements
shall be indicated on the plat.
170.25   PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES AND AMENITIES.  
Existing features which would add value to residential development or to the
City as a whole, such as trees, watercourses and falls, beaches, historic
spots, and similar irreplaceable assets, shall be preserved in the design of
the subdivision. No trees shall be removed from any subdivision or any change
of grade of the land effected until approval of the preliminary plat has been
granted. All trees on the plat required to be retained shall be preserved, and
all trees where required shall be protected against change of grade.
170.26   NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.  
The following provisions apply to nonresidential subdivisions.
   1.   General. If a proposed subdivision includes land that is used for
commercial or industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision with respect
to such land shall make such provision as the Council may require. A
nonresidential subdivision shall be subject to all the requirements of this
chapter, as well as such additional standards required by the Council and shall
conform to the proposed land use and standards established in City plans and
regulations.
   2.   Standards. In addition to the principles and standards in these
regulations, which are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the
applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City that the street,
parcel, and block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the uses
anticipated and takes into account other uses in the vicinity. The following
principles and standards shall be observed:
      A.   Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and dimensions
to the types of industrial development anticipated.
      B.   Street rights-of-way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate
the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated thereupon.
      C.   Special requirements may be imposed by the City with respect to
street, curb, gutter and sidewalk design and construction.
      D.   Special requirements may be imposed by the City with respect to the
installation of public utilities, including water, sewer, and stormwater
drainage.
      E.   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas
from potential nuisance from proposed commercial or industrial subdivision,
including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing up on existing or
potential residential development and provisions for a permanently landscaped
buffer strip when necessary.
      F.   Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck traffic,
shall not normally be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or
potential residential areas.
170.27   SCHOOL AND PARK RESERVATIONS.  
If land to be subdivided contains sites that are designated in City plans or
plans of other public bodies to be used for schools or parks, the developer
shall reserve such site for such use. If sites which have been reserved are not
acquired by the City or other public body within five years after the date of
the preliminary plat approval, then such sites may be subdivided by the
developer. The appropriate public body may release the reserved site sooner by
certifying to the Council that it does not intend to acquire such site within
the two-year period.
170.28   ACTION BY THE COMMISSION - PRELIMINARY PLAT.  
Within 30 days after it receives the preliminary plat from the Clerk, the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall review the preliminary plat as submitted
and make its recommendations. The Chairman of the Commission shall promptly
notify the Clerk of the recommendation made by the Commission. If the Planning
and Zoning Commission does not act within 30 days, the preliminary plat shall
be deemed to be approved; provided, however, that the subdivider may agree to
an extension of the time period, not to exceed an additional 60 days. It shall
then set forth its recommendations in writing, whether of approval,
modification, or disapproval.
   1.   Reasons for Changes or Disapproval. In the event that substantial
changes or modifications are made by the Planning and Zoning Commission or the
Planning and Zoning Commission recommends disapproval of the plat, it shall
give its reasons therefor and it may request and cause the revised preliminary
plat to be resubmitted in the same manner as the original plat.
   2.   Tentative Approval. If the Planning and Zoning Commission recommends
approval, it shall express its approval as “tentative approval” and state the
conditions of such approval, if any.
   3.   Documenting Approval. The action of the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall be documented on two copies of the preliminary plat, referenced, and
attached to any conditions determined and shall be referred to the Council.
170.29   ACTION BY COUNCIL - PRELIMINARY PLAT.  
Within 30 days after the Clerk receives the recommendation of the Planning and
Zoning Commission regarding the preliminary plat, the Council shall, by
resolution, tentatively approve or disapprove the plat. If the preliminary plat
is disapproved, objections to it shall be returned to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for further review and the Clerk shall notify the subdivider of such
action. If approved, the Clerk shall sign two copies of the preliminary plat
with the notation of the date the preliminary plat received the Council’s
tentative approval. One copy shall be returned to the subdivider. The
“tentative approval” by the Council shall not constitute final acceptance of
the addition or subdivision by the City but an authorization to proceed with
the preparation of the final plat.
170.30   EFFECTIVE PERIOD OF TENTATIVE APPROVAL.  
The tentative approval of a preliminary plat shall be effective for a period of
one year at the end of which time final approval must have been obtained. Any
plat not receiving final approval within this period of time shall be void, and
the subdivider shall be required to resubmit a new plat for tentative approval,
subject to all new zoning restrictions and subdivision regulations. However,
upon mutual agreement of the Council and the subdivider, the period during
which final approval must be obtained may be extended for an additional period
of one year.
170.31   FINAL PLAT.  
The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as approved
and, if desired by the subdivider, it may constitute only that portion of the
approved preliminary plat which the subdivider proposes to record and develop
at the time, provided, however, that such portion conforms to all requirements
of this chapter.
170.32   REQUIREMENTS OF THE FINAL PLAT.  
The following graphic and descriptive material is required to be provided on
the final plat and in the accompanying material.
   1.   Contents of the Final Plat. Every plat of a subdivision offered for
record shall conform to all of the following provisions where applicable:
      A.   The plat shall be a permanent copy or a photographic print made on a
stable plastic film. Exact copies of the plat to be recorded shall be provided
to and filed by the County Recorder, Assessor and Auditor. The original plat
drawing shall remain the property of the registered land surveyor.
      B.   The size of each sheet showing any portion of the subdivided lands
shall not be greater than 18 inches by 24 inches or less than eight and one-
half inches by 11 inches.
      C.   Whenever more than one sheet is used to accurately portray the lands
subdivided, each sheet shall display both the number of the sheet and the total
number of sheets included in the plat, as well as clearly labeled match lines
indicating where the other sheets adjoin. An index sheet shall be provided to
show the relationship between the sheets.
      D.   A maximum scale of 100 feet to one inch shall be used. The scale
used shall be clearly stated and graphically illustrated by a bar scale drawn
on every sheet showing any portion of the lands subdivided.
      E.   Subdivisions shall be designated, by name or as otherwise
prescribed, in bold letters inside the margin at the top of each sheet included
in the plat.
      F.   An arrow indicating the northern direction shall be drawn in a
prominent place on each sheet included in the plat as well as the scale and
date.
      G.   All monuments to be of record shall be adequately described and
clearly identified on the plat. When additional monuments are to be established
subsequent to the recording of the plat the location of the additional
monuments shall be shown on the plat.
      H.   Sufficient survey data shall be shown to positively describe the
bounds of every lot, block, street, easement, or other areas shown on the plat,
as well as the outer boundaries of the subdivided lands.
      I.   All distances shall be shown in feet to the nearest one-hundredth of
a foot, and in accordance with the definition of a foot adopted by the United
States Bureau of Standards. All measurements shall refer to the horizontal
plane.
      J.   The course of every boundary line shown on the plat shall be
indicated by a direct bearing reference or by an angle between the boundary
line and an intersecting line having a shown bearing, except when the boundary
line has an irregular or constantly changing course, as along a body of water,
or when a description of the boundary line is better achieved by measurements
shown at points or intervals along a meander line having a shown course. All
bearings and angles shown shall be given to at least the nearest minute of arc.
      K.   Curve data shall be stated in terms of radius, central angle and
tangent, or length of curve. In all cases, the curve data must be shown for the
line affected.
      L.   The minimum unadjusted acceptable error of closure for all
subdivision boundaries shall be 1:10,000 and shall be 1:5,000 for any
individual lot.
      M.   When any lot or portion of the subdivision is bounded by an
irregular line, the major portion of that lot or subdivision shall be enclosed
by a meander line showing complete data with distances along all lines
extending beyond the enclosure to the irregular boundary shown with as much
certainty as can be determined or as “more or less,” if variable. In all cases,
the true boundary shall be clearly indicated on the plat.
      N.   All interior excepted parcels shall be clearly indicated and
labeled, “not a part of this plat.”
      O.   All adjoining properties shall be identified and where such
adjoining properties are a part of a recorded subdivision, the name of that
subdivision shall be shown. If the subdivision platted is a resubdivision of a
part or the whole of a previously recorded subdivision, sufficient ties shall
be shown to controlling lines appearing on the earlier plat to permit an
overlay to be made. Re-subdivisions shall be labeled as such in a subtitle
following the name of the subdivision wherever the name appears on the plat.
      P.   The purpose of any easement shown on the plat shall be clearly
stated and shall be confined to only those easements pertaining to public
utilities including gas, power, telephone, cable TV, fiber optics, water,
sewer, and such drainage easements as are deemed necessary for the orderly
development of the land encompassed within the plat.
      Q.   A strip of land shall not be reserved by the subdivider unless the
land is of sufficient size and shape to be of some practical use or service as
determined by the Council.
      R.   The purpose of all areas dedicated to the public must be clearly
indicated on the plat.
      S.   Street names and clear designation of public alleys.
      T.   Block and lot numbers.
      U.   Name and address of owner and subdivider.
      V.   Accurate dimensions for any property to be dedicated or reserved for
public use.
      W.   The plat shall be signed and acknowledged by the subdivision land
owner and his or her spouse.
      X.   A sealed certification of the accuracy of the plat by the registered
land surveyor who drew the plat.
   2.   Information to be Provided in Accompanying Material. The following
material shall be submitted with the final plat:
      A.   A correct legal description of the subdivision land.
      B.   A statement by the proprietors and their spouses, if any, that the
plat is prepared with their free consent and in accordance with their desire,
signed and acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the
acknowledgments of deeds. The statement by the proprietors may also include a
dedication to the public of all lands within the plat that are designated for
streets, alleys, parks, open areas, school property, or other public use, if
the dedication is approved by the Council.
      C.   A statement from the mortgage holders or lienholders, if any, that
the plat is prepared with their free consent and in accordance with their
desire, signed and acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the
acknowledgment of deeds. An affidavit and bond as provided for in Section
354.12 of the Code of Iowa may be recorded in lieu of the consent of the
mortgage or lienholder. When a mortgage or lienholder consents to the
subdivision, a release of mortgage or lien shall be recorded for any areas
conveyed to the City or dedicated to the public.
      D.   An opinion by an attorney-at-law who has examined the abstract of
title of the land being platted. The opinion shall state the names of the
proprietors and holders of mortgages, liens or other encumbrances on the land
being platted and shall note the encumbrances, along with any bonds securing
the encumbrances. Utility easements shall not be construed to be encumbrances
for the purpose of this section.
      E.   A certificate of the County Treasurer that the land is free from
certified taxes and certified special assessments or that the land is free from
certified taxes and that the certified special assessments are secured by bond
in compliance with Section 354.12 of the Code of Iowa.
      F.   A certificate from the Clerk of the District Court that the
subdivision land is free from all judgments, attachments or mechanics’ or other
liens of record in that office.
      G.   A certificate from the County Recorder that the title in fee is in
the owner and that it is free from encumbrances other than those secured by an
encumbrance bond.
      H.   A statement of restrictions of all types that run with the land and
become covenants in the deeds of lots.
      I.   A resolution and certificate for approval by the Council and for
signatures of the Mayor and Clerk.
170.33   SUBMISSION OF FINAL PLAT.  
The subdivider shall prepare a final plat in accordance with the provisions of
Section
170.32 and shall file with the Clerk an application in triplicate for the final
approval of the plat. The application shall:
   1.   Forms and Fees. Be made on forms available from the Clerk together with
a fee of $25.00 per lot.
   2.   Number of Copies of Plat. Be accompanied by a minimum of six copies of
the final plat.
   3.   Offers of Dedication. Be accompanied by all formal irrevocable offers
of dedication to the public of all streets, City uses, utilities and easements,
in a form approved by the City Attorney.
   4.   Time of Submission. Be presented to the Clerk at least four weeks prior
to the regular meeting of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
170.34   REFERRAL OF FINAL PLAT.  
The Clerk shall immediately refer two copies of the final plat to the City
Engineer, two copies to the Planning and Zoning Commission, and two copies to
the Public Works Director. In the case of a subdivision outside the corporate
limits of the City, the Clerk shall refer one copy of the final plat to the
County Board of Supervisors.
170.35   ACTION BY COMMISSION - FINAL PLAT.  
The Planning and Zoning Commission shall, upon receiving the final plat, as
soon as possible, but not more than 30 days thereafter, consider the final
plat, and if the same is recommended for approval, shall submit its
recommendation of approval to the Council together with a certified copy of its
resolution showing the action of the Planning and Zoning Commission. If the
Planning and Zoning Commission recommends approval of the final plat, such
approval and the date thereof shall be noted on the plat over the signature of
both the Chairperson and Secretary of the Planning and Zoning Commission and
the plat and two copies shall be transmitted to the Council.
170.36   ACTION BY COUNCIL - FINAL PLAT.  
Upon receipt of the certification by the Planning and Zoning Commission, the
Council shall, within 30 days, either approve or disapprove the final plat.
   1.   Disapproval of Plat. In the event that said plat is disapproved by the
Council, such disapproval shall be expressed in writing and shall point out
wherein said proposed plat is objectionable.
   2.   Acceptance of Plat. In the event that said plat is found to be
acceptable and in accordance with these regulations, the Council shall accept
the same.
   3.   Final Approval and Recording of Plat. The passage of a resolution by
the Council accepting the plat shall constitute final approval of the platting
of the area shown on the final plat. A Council resolution approving the final
plat shall specify the type, quantity and installation schedule of public works
improvements to be constructed and paid for by the City, with such cost to be
assessed to the platted property according to the provisions of Section
170.08. One copy of the plat and resolution shall be given to the subdivider.
The subdivider or owner shall cause such plat to be recorded in the office of
the County Recorder of the County where the land to be subdivided is located,
and shall file satisfactory evidence of such recording in the office of the
Clerk before the City shall recognize the plat as being in full force and
effect.
170.37   RESUBDIVISION OF LAND.  
The following requirements shall govern the resubdividing of land.
   1.   Procedure for Resubdividing. For any change in a map of an approved or
recorded subdivision plat, if such change affects any street layout shown on
such map, or area reserved for public use indicated on the map, or any lot
line, or if it affects any map or plan legally established prior to the
adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions, such parcel shall be
approved by the same procedure, rules, and regulations as for a subdivision.
   2.   Acreage Lots. Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided and the
subdivision plat shows one or more lots containing more than one acre of land
and there are indications that such lots will eventually be resubdivided into
smaller building sites, the Planning and Zoning Commission and Council may
require that such parcel of land allow for future opening of streets and the
ultimate extension of adjacent streets. Easements providing for the future
opening and extension of such streets may be made a requirement of the plat.
170.38   COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.  
After final approval and recording of the final plat, the City shall take
prompt steps, by mutual agreement with the subdivider, to provide for the
construction of the public works improvements specified in the resolution of
final plat approval. The City or its designee shall have full responsibility
for planning, designing and engineering these improvements; for determining and
preparing the construction specifications; for the purchase of materials; for
hiring contractors and bonding them if necessary; and for inspecting all such
work.
170.39   VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.  
The following provisions apply to the granting of variations or exceptions.
   1.   Hardships. Where the Council finds that extraordinary hardships or
particular difficulties regarding the physical development of land may result
from strict compliance with these regulations, it may make variations or
exceptions to the regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the
public interest secured, provided that such variation or exception shall not
have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of these regulations; and
further provided the Council shall not grant variations or exceptions to these
regulations unless it shall make findings based upon the evidence presented to
it in each specific case that:
      A.   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in
the neighborhood in which the property is located.
      B.   The conditions upon which the request for a variation is based are
unique to the property for which the variation is sought and are not
applicable, generally, to other property.
      C.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of the regulations were carried out.
      D.   The purpose of the variation is not based exclusively upon a desire
to make more money out of the property.
   2.   Conditions. In granting variations and exceptions the Council may
require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the
objectives of the standards or requirements of this chapter.
   3.   Procedure for a Variance. A petition for any such variance shall be
submitted in writing by the developer at the time when the preliminary plat is
filed. The petition shall state fully the grounds for the application and all
of the facts relied upon by the petitioner.
170.40   CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.  
Any provisions of this chapter may be changed and amended from time to time by
the Council; provided, however, such changes or amendments shall not become
effective until after a public hearing has been held, public notice of which
shall have been given as required by law. Such proposed amendments shall first
be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission for study and recommendation
before the hearing is held. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall forward
its recommendations to the Council within 30 days after which the Council shall
give notice of and hold a public hearing on the proposed amendment.
170.41   ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS, AND PENALTIES.  
No plat or subdivision within the City or within two miles thereof shall be
filed or recorded with the Council, nor shall any plat or subdivision have any
validity until it complies with the provisions of this chapter, has been
approved by the Council as set forth herein, and further:
   1.   Issuance of Building Permits. No more than two building permits for
each separate tract existing at the time of the effective date of these
regulations shall be issued unless the tract has been platted in accordance
with these regulations; except that this provision shall not limit the number
of building permits that may be issued for accessory buildings as defined by
applicable land use regulations such as zoning and restricted residence
regulations or additions or improvements to a main or accessory building
already legally located upon said tract.
   2.   Sale or Lease Without Plat. Any person who disposes of or offers for
sale or lease any lots in the City or addition to the City, until the plat
thereof has been acknowledged and recorded as provided in this chapter, shall
forfeit, and pay $250.00 for each lot and part of lot sold or disposed of,
leased or offered for sale.
170.42   WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS.  
The Council shall have the authority to waive any requirements imposed by the
provisions of this chapter where there is a development agreement complying
with requirements of Chapter 403 of the Code of Iowa; and the Council shall
have the right to negotiate agreements to accomplish the orderly subdivision
and development of real estate within the City limits.
170.43   MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME COMMUNITY ZONING.  
All new manufactured or mobile home communities and expansions of manufactured
or mobile home communities are to be developed as Planned Development - Mobile
Home Communities (PD - MH) as provided in Section 170.44 of this chapter and
further subject to the development standards described in Section 165.20 R-3,
the Manufactured/Mobile/Compact Home Communities District.
170.44   PD - MH PLANNED DEVELOPMENT - MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME COMMUNITY.  
A planned development in which the principal use will be residential occupancy
of manufactured or mobile housing units, some, or all of which do not meet the
requirements of the Code of Ordinances. This PD - MH classification is intended
to accommodate manufactured or mobile home communities in those areas of the
City where they will be compatible with existing and projected development.
This zoning classification will generally be located in outlying areas of the
City and must be served with adequate sewers, water, stormwater facilities,
streets, police, and fire protection, and other necessary public facilities and
services as more fully specified in Section
165.20 R-3, Manufactured/Mobile/Compact Home Communities District.
Notwithstanding
Chapter 170, the preliminary and final development plans and plan of
improvements required must comply with the standards for development of a
manufactured or mobile home community established in Section
165.20.
 
 
