Code of Ordinances
of the
CITY OF
Reinbeck, Iowa
Prepared By:   Local Government Professional Services, Inc.
DBA Iowa Codification
P. O. Box 244
114 E 5th Street
Storm Lake, Iowa 50588
(641) 355-4072
www.sc-ic.com
Adopted April 4, 2022, by Ordinance No. 2022-02OR
SUPPLEMENT RECORD
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date Subject
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No.  Date    Subject
Jul-23    92.02; 99.01            2022-03OR 8-1-22  Water and Sewer Rates
          160.03(1); 160.09       2022-04OR 12-5-22 Floodplain Management
          69.09                   2023-01OR 4-3-23  All Night Parking
                                                    Prohibited
          92.02; 99.01            2023-02OR 7-5-23  Water and Sewer Rates
Oct-24    9.03                    2023-03OR 11-6-23 Reinbeck Urban Renewal Area
                                                    (Deleting Property)
          9.04                    2023-04OR 11-6-23 Reinbeck Redevelopment
                                                    Urban Renewal Area
          106.04                  2024-01O  3-4-24  Frequency of Garbage
                                                    Collection
          92.02; 99.01            2024-02OR 7-1-24  Water and Sewer Rates
          75.06                   2024-03OR 8-5-24  Operation of ATVs and UTVs
          50.08                   2024-04OR 10-7-24 Adult Establishment
                                                    Nuisance
          5.02                    2024-05OR 10-7-24 Bond Requirements
          5.06                    2024-06OR 10-7-24 Electronic Meetings
          35.14                   2024-07OR 10-7-24 Authority to Cite
                                                    Violations
          7.05; 7.08              2024-08OR 10-7-24 Fiscal Management
          60.02; 65.08            2024-09OR 10-7-24 Pedestrians' Right-of-Way
          18.03                   2024-10OR 10-7-24 Publication of Minutes
          136.04                  2024-11OR 10-7-24 Sidewalk Liability
Jul-25    92.02                   2025-01OR 7-7-25  Water Rates
 
CHAPTER 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES
 
1.01 Title                  1.08 Amendments
1.02 Definitions            1.09 Catchlines and Notes
1.03 City Powers            1.10 Altering Code
1.04 Indemnity              1.11 Severability
1.05 Personal Injuries      1.12 Warrants
1.06 Rules of Construction  1.13 General Standards for Action
1.07 Extension of Authority 1.14 Standard Penalty
 
1.01   TITLE.
This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Reinbeck, Iowa.
1.02   DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in this Code of Ordinances are defined in the Code
of Iowa, such definitions apply to their use in this Code of Ordinances unless
such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council
or repugnant to the context of the provision. Other words and phrases used
herein have the following meanings, unless specifically defined otherwise in
another portion of this Code of Ordinances or unless such construction would be
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council or repugnant to the
context of the provision:
1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street, affording
secondary means of access to abutting property.
2.   “City” means the city of Reinbeck, Iowa.
3.   “Clerk” means the city clerk of Reinbeck, Iowa.
4.   “Code” means the specific chapter of this Code of Ordinances in which a
specific subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such as the
Building Code and/or a standard code adopted by reference).
5.   “Code of Ordinances” means the Code of Ordinances of the City of Reinbeck,
Iowa.
6.   “Council” means the city council of Reinbeck, Iowa.
7.   “County” means Grundy County, Iowa.
8.   “IAC” means the Iowa Administrative Code.
9.   “May” confers a power.
10.   “Measure” means an ordinance, amendment, resolution, or motion.
11.   “Must” states a requirement.
12.   “Occupant” or “tenant,” applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
13.   “Ordinances” means the ordinances of the City of Reinbeck, Iowa, as
embodied in this Code of Ordinances, ordinances not repealed by the ordinance
adopting this Code of Ordinances, and those enacted hereafter.
14.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust, or other
legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.
15.   “Public way” includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.
16.   “Shall” imposes a duty.
17.   “Sidewalk” means that surfaced portion of the street between the edge of
the traveled way, surfacing, or curb line and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
18.   “State” means the State of Iowa.
19.   “Statutes” or “laws” means the latest edition of the Code of Iowa, as
amended.
20.   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
Words that are not defined in this Code of Ordinances or by the Code of Iowa
have their ordinary meaning unless such construction would be inconsistent with
the manifest intent of the Council, or repugnant to the context of the
provision.
1.03   CITY POWERS.
The City may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if not
inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any power and
perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the rights,
privileges, and property of the City and of its residents, and to preserve and
improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and convenience of its
residents, and each and every provision of this Code of Ordinances shall be
deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and the performance of the
foregoing functions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.1)
1.04   INDEMNITY.
The applicant for any permit or license under this Code of Ordinances, by
making such application, assumes and agrees to pay for any injury to or death
of any person or persons whomsoever, and any loss of or damage to property
whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however arising
from or related to, directly, indirectly, or remotely, the issuance of the
permit or license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of such
applicant, or the agents, employees, or servants of such applicant, to abide by
or comply with any of the provisions of this Code of Ordinances or the terms
and conditions of such permit or license, and such applicant, by making such
application, forever agrees to indemnify the City and its officers, agents, and
employees, and agrees to save them harmless from any and all claims, demands,
lawsuits, or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage, injury, or death,
including all costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason of the foregoing.
The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a part of any permit or
license issued under this Code of Ordinances or any other ordinance of the
City, whether expressly recited therein or not.
1.05   PERSONAL INJURIES.
When action is brought against the City for personal injuries alleged to have
been caused by its negligence, the City may notify in writing any person by
whose negligence it claims the injury was caused. The notice shall state the
pendency of the action, the name of the plaintiff, the name and location of the
court where the action is pending, a brief statement of the alleged facts from
which the cause arose, that the City believes that the person notified is
liable to it for any judgment rendered against the City, and asking the person
to appear and defend. A judgment obtained in the suit is conclusive in any
action by the City against any person so notified, as to the existence of the
defect or other cause of the injury or damage, as to the liability of the City
to the plaintiff in the first named action, and as to the amount of the damage
or injury. The City may maintain an action against the person notified to
recover the amount of the judgment together with all the expenses incurred by
the City in the suit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.14)
1.06   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the rules of statutory
construction as set forth in Chapter 4 of the Code of Iowa shall be utilized to
ascertain the intent of the Council, with the understanding that the term
“statute” as used therein will be deemed to be synonymous with the term
“ordinance” when applied to this Code of Ordinances.
1.07   EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this Code of Ordinances, the provision shall be construed as
authorizing performance by a regular assistant, subordinate, or a duly
authorized designee of said officer or employee.
1.08   AMENDMENTS.
All ordinances that amend, repeal, or in any manner affect this Code of
Ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, subsection, or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.2)
1.09   CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code of Ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section, and subsection), editor’s notes, cross references,
and State law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself,
contained in this Code of Ordinances, do not constitute any part of the law and
are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement, or clarify the contents
of a section.
1.10   ALTERING CODE.
It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this Code of Ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code of
Ordinances in any manner that will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented.
1.11   SEVERABILITY.
If any section, provision, or part of this Code of Ordinances is adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity of
this Code of Ordinances as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof
not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
1.12   WARRANTS.
If consent to enter upon or inspect any building, structure, or property
pursuant to a municipal ordinance is withheld by any person having the lawful
right to exclude, the City officer or employee having the duty to enter upon or
conduct the inspection may apply to the Iowa District Court in and for the
County, pursuant to Section 808.14 of the Code of Iowa, for an administrative
search warrant. No owner, operator or occupant, or any other person having
charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, rooming unit, structure,
building, or premises shall fail or neglect, after presentation of a search
warrant, to permit entry therein by the municipal officer or employee.
1.13   GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACTION.
Whenever this Code of Ordinances grants any discretionary power to the Council
or any commission, board, or officer or employee of the City and does not
specify standards to govern the exercise of the power, the power shall be
exercised in light of the following standard: The discretionary power to grant,
deny, or revoke any matter shall be considered in light of the facts and
circumstances then existing and as may be reasonably foreseeable, and due
consideration shall be given to the impact upon the public health, safety and
welfare, and the decision shall be that of a reasonably prudent person under
similar circumstances in the exercise of the police power.
1.14   STANDARD PENALTY.
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this Code of Ordinances for
violation of any particular provision, section, or chapter, any person failing
to perform a duty required by this Code of Ordinances or otherwise violating
any provision of this Code of Ordinances or any rule or regulation adopted
herein by reference shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of at least
$105.00 but not to exceed $855.00. The court may order imprisonment not to
exceed 30 days in lieu of a fine or in addition to a fine.† 1
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[2] and 903.1[1a])
 
Notes
1 † EDITOR’S NOTE: For civil penalty for violations of this Code of Ordinances, see
  Chapter 3.
CHAPTER 2
CHARTER
 
2.01 Title                              2.04 Number and Term of Council
2.02 Form of Government                 2.05 Term of Mayor
2.03 Powers and Duties of City Officers 2.06 Copies on File
 
2.01   TITLE.
This chapter may be cited as the charter of the City of Reinbeck, Iowa.
2.02   FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
The form of government of the City is the Mayor-Council form of government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
2.03   POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
The Council and Mayor and other City officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by State law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the City.
2.04   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of five Council Members elected at large for overlapping
terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.05   TERM OF MAYOR.
The Mayor is elected for a term of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.06   COPIES ON FILE.
The Clerk shall keep an official copy of the charter on file with the official
records of the Clerk and the Secretary of State, and shall keep copies of the
charter available at the Clerk’s office for public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.1[3])
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
 
3.01 Municipal Infraction    3.04 Civil Citations
3.02 Environmental Violation 3.05 Alternative Relief
3.03 Penalties               3.06 Alternative Penalties
 
3.01   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
A violation of this Code of Ordinances or any ordinance or code herein adopted
by reference or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty required by
the same, with the exception of those provisions specifically provided under
State law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious misdemeanor, or
a simple misdemeanor under Chapters 687 through 747 of the Code of Iowa, is a
municipal infraction punishable by civil penalty as provided herein.† 2
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[3])
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: For criminal penalty for violations of this Code of
2 Ordinances, see Section
  1.14.
3.02   ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATION.
A municipal infraction that is a violation of Chapter 455B of the Code of Iowa
or of a standard established by the City in consultation with the Department of
Natural Resources, or both, may be classified as an environmental violation.
However, the provisions of this section shall not be applicable until the City
has offered to participate in informal negotiations regarding the violation or
to the following specific violations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
1.   A violation arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment standard or
requirement referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8.
2.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person not engaged in the industrial
production or manufacturing of grain products.
3.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person engaged in such industrial production
or manufacturing if such discharge occurs from September 15 to January 15.
3.03   PENALTIES.
A municipal infraction is punishable by the following civil penalties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
1.   Standard Civil Penalties.
   A.   First offense – not to exceed $750.00
   B.   Each repeat offense – not to exceed $1,000.00
Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a repeat
offense.
2.   Special Civil Penalties.
   A.   A municipal infraction arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment
standard or requirement, referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8, by an industrial user
is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each day a violation
exists or continues.
   B.   A municipal infraction classified as an environmental violation is
punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each occurrence.
However, an environmental violation is not subject to such penalty if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The violation results solely from conducting an initial startup,
cleaning, repairing, performing scheduled maintenance, testing, or conducting a
shutdown of either equipment causing the violation or the equipment designed to
reduce or eliminate the violation.
      (2)   The City is notified of the violation within 24 hours from the time
that the violation begins.
      (3)   The violation does not continue in existence for more than eight
hours.
3.04   CIVIL CITATIONS.
Any officer authorized by the City to enforce this Code of Ordinances may issue
a civil citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction. A copy of the
citation may be served by personal service as provided in Rule of Civil
Procedure 1.305, by certified mail addressed to the defendant at defendant’s
last known mailing address, return receipt requested, or by publication in the
manner as provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.310 and subject to the
conditions of Rule of Civil Procedure 1.311. A copy of the citation shall be
retained by the issuing officer, and the original citation shall be sent to the
Clerk of the District Court. The citation shall serve as notification that a
civil offense has been committed and shall contain the following information:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[4])
1.   The name and address of the defendant.
2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation.
3.   The location and time of the infraction.
4.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative relief
sought, or both.
5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid.
6.   The time and place of court appearance.
7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.
8.   The legal description of the affected real property, if applicable.
If the citation affects real property and charges a violation relating to the
condition of the property, including a building code violation, a local housing
regulation violation, a housing code violation, or a public health or safety
violation, after filing the citation with the Clerk of the District Court, the
City shall also file the citation in the office of the County Treasurer.
3.05   ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.
Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not preclude the
City from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action. Such
alternative relief may include, but is not limited to, an order for abatement
or injunctive relief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[9])
3.06   ALTERNATIVE PENALTIES.
This chapter does not preclude a peace officer from issuing a criminal citation
for a violation of this Code of Ordinances or regulation if criminal penalties
are also provided for the violation. Nor does it preclude or limit the
authority of the City to enforce the provisions of this Code of Ordinances by
criminal sanctions or other lawful means.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[12])
CHAPTER 5
OPERATING PROCEDURES
 
5.01 Oaths                 5.07 Conflict of Interest
5.02 Bonds                 5.08 Resignations
5.03 Powers and Duties     5.09 Removal of Appointed Officers and Employees
5.04 Books and Records     5.10 Vacancies
5.05 Transfer to Successor 5.11 Gifts
5.06 Meetings
 
5.01   OATHS.
The oath of office shall be required and administered in accordance with the
following:
1.   Qualify for Office. Each elected or appointed officer shall qualify for
office by taking the prescribed oath and by giving, when required, a bond. The
oath shall be taken, and bond provided, after such officer is certified as
elected but not later than noon of the first day that is not a Sunday or a
legal holiday in January of the first year of the term for which the officer
was elected.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.1)
2.   Prescribed Oath. The prescribed oath is: “I, (name), do solemnly swear
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of the State of Iowa, and that I will faithfully and impartially, to the best
of my ability, discharge all duties of the office of (name of office) in
Reinbeck as now or hereafter required by law.”
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.10)
3.   Officers Empowered to Administer Oaths. The following are empowered to
administer oaths and to take affirmations in any matter pertaining to the
business of their respective offices:
   A.   Mayor
   B.   City Clerk
   C.   Members of all boards, commissions, or bodies created by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63A.2)
5.02   BONDS.
Surety bonds are provided in accordance with the following:
1.   Required. The Council shall provide by resolution for a surety bond or
blanket position bond running to the City and covering the Mayor, Clerk,
Treasurer, and such other officers and employees as may be necessary and
advisable except as allowed in Subsection 5.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.13)
2.   Bonds Approved. Bonds shall be approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.19)
3.   Bonds Filed. All bonds, after approval and proper record, shall be filed
with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.23(6))
4.   Record. The Clerk shall keep a book, to be known as the “Record of
Official Bonds” in which shall be recorded the official bonds of all City
officers, elective or appointive.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.24(1)(a))
5.   Insurance Policy in Lieu of Bond. In lieu of a bond, a public officer
required to obtain a bond pursuant to Chapter 64 of the Code of Iowa may obtain
an insurance policy in an amount not less than the amounts required of a bond.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.3)
(Section 5.02 – Ord. 2024-05OR – Oct. 24 Supp.)
5.03   POWERS AND DUTIES.
Each municipal officer shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
prescribed by law and this Code of Ordinances, or as otherwise directed by the
Council unless contrary to State law or City charter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.04   BOOKS AND RECORDS.
All books and records required to be kept by law or ordinance shall be open to
examination by the public upon request, unless some other provisions of law
expressly limit such right or require such records to be kept confidential.
Access to public records that are combined with data processing software shall
be in accordance with policies and procedures established by the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 22.2 and 22.3A)
5.05   TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR.
Each officer shall transfer to his or her successor in office all books,
papers, records, documents and property in the officer’s custody and
appertaining to that office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.06   MEETINGS.
All meetings of the Council, any board or commission, or any multi-membered
body formally and directly created by any of the foregoing bodies shall be held
in accordance with the following:
1.   Definitions. The following terms are defined for use in this section.
   A.   “Closed session” means a meeting to which all members of the public do
not have access as allowed by Section 21.5 of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   “Hybrid meeting” means a meeting involving both remote participation
and in-person participation by members.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(a))
   C.   “Open session” means a meeting to which all members of the public have
access.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.2(3))
   D.   “Remote participation” means real-time participation by a remotely
located individual in a meeting which is being held in a different physical
location using integrated audio, video, and other digital tools.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(b))
   E.   “Reasonable notice” means advising the news media who have filed a
request for notice with the governmental body and posting the notice on a
bulletin board or other prominent place which is easily accessible to the
public and clearly designated for that purpose at the principal office of the
body holding the meeting, or if not such office exists, at the building in
which the meeting is to be held.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4(1))
   F.   “Teleconference participation” means participation using audio
conference tools involving multiple participants in at least two separate
locations.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(c))
   G.   “Virtual meeting” means a meeting involving real-time interaction using
integrated audio, video, and other digital tools, in which participants do not
share a physical location.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(d))
2.   Notice of Meetings. Reasonable notice of the time, date, and place of each
meeting and its tentative agenda shall be given.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4)
3.   Meetings Open. All meetings shall be held in open session unless closed
sessions are held as expressly permitted by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
4.   Minutes. Minutes shall be kept of all meetings showing the date, time, and
place, the members present, and the action taken at each meeting. The minutes
shall show the results of each vote taken and information sufficient to
indicate the vote of each member present. The vote of each member present shall
be made public at the open session. The minutes shall be public records open to
public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
5.   Closed Session. A closed session may be held only by affirmative vote of
either two-thirds of the body or all of the members present at the meeting and
in accordance with Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.5)
6.   Cameras and Recorders. The public may use cameras or recording devices at
any open session.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.7)
7.   Electronic Meetings. A governmental body shall provide for hybrid
meetings, teleconference participation, virtual meetings, remote participation,
and other hybrid options for the members of the governmental body to
participate in official meetings. A governmental body conducting a meeting
pursuant to this subsection shall comply with all of the provisions of Chapter
21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8)
(Section 5.06 – Ord. 2024-06OR – Oct. 24 Supp.)
5.07   CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
A City officer or employee shall not have an interest, direct or indirect, in
any contract or job of work or material or the profits thereof or services to
be furnished or performed for the City, unless expressly permitted by law. A
contract entered into in violation of this section is void. The provisions of
this section do not apply to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5)
1.   Compensation of Officers. The payment of lawful compensation of a City
officer or employee holding more than one City office or position, the holding
of which is not incompatible with another public office or is not prohibited by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3a])
2.   Investment of Funds. The designation of a bank or trust company as a
depository, paying agent, or for investment of funds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3b])
3.   City Treasurer. An employee of a bank or trust company, who serves as
Treasurer of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3c])
4.   Stock Interests. Contracts in which a City officer or employee has an
interest solely by reason of employment, or a stock interest of the kind
described in Subsection 8 of this section, or both, if the contracts are made
by competitive bid in writing, publicly invited and opened, or if the
remuneration of employment will not be directly affected as a result of the
contract and the duties of employment do not directly involve the procurement
or preparation of any part of the contract. The competitive bid qualification
of this subsection does not apply to a contract for professional services not
customarily awarded by competitive bid.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3e])
5.   Newspaper. The designation of an official newspaper.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3f])
6.   Existing Contracts. A contract in which a City officer or employee has an
interest if the contract was made before the time the officer or employee was
elected or appointed, but the contract may not be renewed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3g])
7.   Volunteers. Contracts with volunteer firefighters or civil defense
volunteers.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3h])
8.   Corporations. A contract with a corporation in which a City officer or
employee has an interest by reason of stock holdings when less than five
percent of the outstanding stock of the corporation is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the officer or employee or the spouse or immediate
family of such officer or employee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3i])
9.   Contracts. Contracts made by the City upon competitive bid in writing,
publicly invited and opened.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3d])
10.   Cumulative Purchases. Contracts not otherwise permitted by this section,
for the purchase of goods or services that benefit a City officer or employee,
if the purchases benefiting that officer or employee do not exceed a cumulative
total purchase price of $6,000.00 in a fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3j])
11.   Franchise Agreements. Franchise agreements between the City and a utility
and contracts entered into by the City for the provision of essential City
utility services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3k])
12.   Third Party Contracts. A contract that is a bond, note or other
obligation of the City and the contract is not acquired directly from the City
but is acquired in a transaction with a third party who may or may not be the
original underwriter, purchaser, or obligee of the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3l])
5.08   RESIGNATIONS.
An elected officer who wishes to resign may do so by submitting a resignation
in writing to the Clerk so that it shall be properly recorded and considered. A
person who resigns from an elective office is not eligible for appointment to
the same office during the time for which the person was elected if, during
that time, the compensation of the office has been increased.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[9])
5.09   REMOVAL OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
Except as otherwise provided by State or City law, all persons appointed to
City office or employment may be removed by the officer or body making the
appointment, but every such removal shall be by written order. The order shall
give the reasons, be filed in the office of the Clerk, and a copy shall be sent
by certified mail to the person removed, who, upon request filed with the Clerk
within 30 days after the date of mailing the copy, shall be granted a public
hearing before the Council on all issues connected with the removal. The
hearing shall be held within 30 days after the date the request is filed,
unless the person removed requests a later date.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.15)
5.10   VACANCIES.
A vacancy in an elective City office during a term of office shall be filled in
accordance with Section 372.13[2] of the Code of Iowa.
5.11   GIFTS.
Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 68B of the Code of Iowa, a public
official, public employee or candidate, or that person’s immediate family
member, shall not, directly or indirectly, accept or receive any gift or series
of gifts from a “restricted donor” as defined in Chapter 68B and a restricted
donor shall not, directly or indirectly, individually or jointly with one or
more other restricted donors, offer or make a gift or a series of gifts to a
public official, public employee, or candidate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 68B.22)
CHAPTER 6
CITY ELECTIONS
 
6.01 Nominating Method to Be Used 6.04 Preparation of Petition and Affidavit
6.02 Nominations by Petition      6.05 Filing; Presumption; Withdrawals;
                                  Objections
6.03 Adding Name by Petition      6.06 Persons Elected
 
6.01   NOMINATING METHOD TO BE USED.
All candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated under the
provisions of Chapter 45 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.3)
6.02   NOMINATIONS BY PETITION.
Nominations for elective municipal offices of the City may be made by
nomination paper or papers signed by not less than 10 eligible electors,
residents of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.1)
6.03   ADDING NAME BY PETITION.
The name of a candidate placed upon the ballot by any other method than by
petition shall not be added by petition for the same office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.2)
6.04   PREPARATION OF PETITION AND AFFIDAVIT.
Nomination papers shall include a petition and an affidavit of candidacy. The
petition and affidavit shall be substantially in the form prescribed by the
State Commissioner of Elections, shall include information required by the Code
of Iowa, and shall be signed in accordance with the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.3, 45.5, and 45.6)
6.05   FILING; PRESUMPTION; WITHDRAWALS; OBJECTIONS.
The time and place of filing nomination petitions, the presumption of validity
thereof, the right of a candidate so nominated to withdraw and the effect of
such withdrawal, and the right to object to the legal sufficiency of such
petitions, or to the eligibility of the candidate, shall be governed by the
appropriate provisions of Chapter 44 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.4)
6.06   PERSONS ELECTED.
The candidates who receive the greatest number of votes for each office on the
ballot are elected, to the extent necessary to fill the positions open.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.8[3])
CHAPTER 7
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
 
7.01 Purpose         7.05 Operating Budget Preparation
7.02 Finance Officer 7.06 Budget Amendments
7.03 Cash Control    7.07 Accounting
7.04 Fund Control    7.08 Financial Reports
 
7.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and provide for rules and
regulations governing the management of the financial affairs of the City.
7.02   FINANCE OFFICER.
The Clerk is the finance and accounting officer of the City and is responsible
for the administration of the provisions of this chapter.
7.03   CASH CONTROL.
To assure the proper accounting and safe custody of moneys the following shall
apply:
1.   Deposit of Funds. All moneys or fees collected for any purpose by any City
officer shall be deposited through the office of the finance officer. If any
said fees are due to an officer, they shall be paid to the officer by check
drawn by the finance officer and approved by the Council only upon such
officer’s making adequate reports relating thereto as required by law,
ordinance, or Council directive.
2.   Deposits and Investments. All moneys belonging to the City shall be
promptly deposited in depositories selected by the Council in amounts not
exceeding the authorized depository limitation established by the Council or
invested in accordance with the City’s written investment policy and State law,
including joint investments as authorized by Section 384.21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.21, 12B.10, 12C.1)
7.04   FUND CONTROL.
There shall be established and maintained separate and distinct funds in
accordance with the following:
1.   Revenues. All moneys received by the City shall be credited to the proper
fund as required by law, ordinance, or resolution.
2.   Expenditures. No disbursement shall be made from a fund unless such
disbursement is authorized by law, ordinance, or resolution, was properly
budgeted, and supported by a claim approved by the Council.
3.   Emergency Fund. No transfer may be made from any fund to the Emergency
Fund.
(545 IAC 2.5[2])
4.   Debt Service Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by State law,
moneys may be transferred from any other City fund to the Debt Service Fund to
meet payments of principal and interest. Such transfers must be authorized by
the original budget or a budget amendment.
(545 IAC 2.5[3])
5.   Capital Improvements Reserve Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by
State law, moneys may be transferred from any City fund to the Capital
Improvements Reserve Fund. Such transfers must be authorized by the original
budget or a budget amendment.
(545 IAC 2.5[4])
6.   Utility and Enterprise Funds. A surplus in a Utility or Enterprise Fund
may be transferred to any other City fund, except the Emergency Fund, by
resolution of the Council. A surplus may exist only after all required
transfers have been made to any restricted accounts in accordance with the
terms and provisions of any revenue bonds or loan agreements relating to the
Utility or Enterprise Fund. A surplus is defined as the cash balance in the
operating account or the unrestricted net position calculated in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, after adding back the net
pension and other postemployment benefits, liabilities, and the related
deferred inflows of resources and deducting the related deferred outflows of
resources, in excess of:
   A.   The amount of the expenses of disbursements for operating and
maintaining the utility or enterprise for the preceding three months; and
   B.   The amount necessary to make all required transfers to restricted
accounts for the succeeding three months.
(545 IAC 2.5[5])
7.   Balancing of Funds. Fund accounts shall be reconciled at the close of each
month and a report thereof submitted to the Council.
7.05   OPERATING BUDGET PREPARATION.
The annual operating budget of the City shall be prepared in accordance with
the following:
1.   Proposal Prepared. The finance officer is responsible for preparation of
the annual budget detail, for review by the Mayor and Council and adoption by
the Council in accordance with directives of the Mayor and Council.
2.   Boards and Commissions. All boards, commissions, and other administrative
agencies of the City that are authorized to prepare and administer budgets must
submit their budget proposals to the finance officer for inclusion in the
proposed City budget at such time and in such form as required by the Council.
3.   Submission to Council. The finance officer shall submit the completed
budget proposal to the Council each year at such time as directed by the
Council.
4.   Annual Statement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 24.2A(2))
   A.   On or before 4:00 p.m. on March 5 of each year, the City shall file,
with the Department of Management, a report containing all necessary
information for the Department of Management to compile and calculate amounts
required to be included in the statement mailed under Paragraph B.
   B.   Not later than March 15, the County Auditor, using information compiled
and calculated by the Department of Management shall send to each property
owner or taxpayer within the County, by regular mail, an individual statement
containing all of the required information as provided under Section 24.2(2)(B)
(1-10) of the Code of Iowa.
   C.   The Department of Management shall prescribe the form for the report
required under Paragraph A, the statements to be mailed under Paragraph B, and
the public hearing notice required under Paragraph D.
   D.   The Council shall set a time and place for a public hearing on the
City’s proposed property tax amount for the budget year and the City’s
information included in the statements under Paragraph B. The proposed property
tax hearing shall be set on a date on or after March 20 of the budget year
immediately preceding the budget year for which the tax is being proposed. At
the hearing, the Council shall receive oral or written testimony from any
resident or property owner of the City. This public hearing shall be separate
from any other meeting of the Council, including any other meeting or public
hearing relating to the City’s budget, and other business of the City that is
not related to the proposed property tax amounts and the information in the
statements shall not be conducted at the public hearing. After all testimony
has been received and considered, the governing body may decrease, but not
increase, the proposed property tax amount to be included in the City’s budget.
      (1)   Notice of the public hearing shall be published not less than 10
nor more than 20 days prior to the hearing, in a newspaper published at least
once weekly and having general circulation in the City. However, if the City
has a population of 200 or less, publication may be made by posting in three
public places in the City.
      (2)   Notice of the hearing shall also be posted and clearly identified
on the City’s internet site for public viewing beginning on the date of the
newspaper publication and shall be maintained on the City’s internet site with
all such prior year notices.
      (3)   Additionally, if the City maintains a social media account on one
or more social media applications, the public hearing notice or an electronic
link to the public hearing notice shall be posted on each such account on a
date no later than the date of publication of the notice.
      (4)   Failure of a newspaper to publish a required notice under this
paragraph shall not be considered a failure of a political subdivision to
provide required notice under this paragraph if all of the following conditions
are met:
         a.   Notice of the public hearing was provided to each property owner
and each taxpayer within the political subdivision in statements required under
Subsection 2, Paragraph B.
         b.   The political subdivision can demonstrate to the county auditor
that the political subdivision provided sufficient time for the newspaper to
publish the notice.
5.   Council Review. The Council shall review the proposed budget and may make
any adjustments it deems appropriate in the budget before accepting such
proposal for publication, hearing, and final adoption.
6.   Notice of Hearing. Following, and not until the requirements, of
Subsection 4 of this section, are completed, the Council shall set a time and
place for public hearing on the budget to be held before April 30 and shall
publish notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days before the
hearing. A summary of the proposed budget and a description of the procedure
for protesting the City budget under Section 384.19 of the Code of Iowa, in the
form prescribed by the Director of the Department of Management, shall be
included in the notice. Proof of publication of the notice under this
subsection must be filed with the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[3])
7.   Copies of Budget on File. Not less than 20 days before the date that the
budget must be certified to the County Auditor and not less than 10 days before
the public hearing, the Clerk shall make available a sufficient number of
copies of the detailed budget to meet the requests of taxpayers and
organizations, and have them available for distribution at the offices of the
Mayor and Clerk and at the City library.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[2])
8.   Adoption and Certification. After the hearing, the Council shall adopt, by
resolution, a budget for at least the next fiscal year and the Clerk shall
certify the necessary tax levy for the next fiscal year to the County Auditor
and the County Board of Supervisors. The tax levy certified may be less than,
but not more than, the amount estimated in the proposed budget submitted at the
final hearing, unless an additional tax levy is approved at a City election.
Two copies each of the detailed budget as adopted and of the tax certificate
must be transmitted to the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[5])
(Section 7.05 – Ord. 2024-08OR – Oct. 24 Supp.)
7.06   BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
A City budget finally adopted for the following fiscal year becomes effective
July 1 and constitutes the City appropriation for each program and purpose
specified therein until amended as provided by this Section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.18)
1.   Program Increase. Any increase in the amount appropriated to a program
must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as the
original budget.
(545 IAC 2.2)
2.   Program Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one program to
another must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as
the original budget.
(545 IAC 2.3)
3.   Activity Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one activity to
another activity within a program must be approved by resolution of the
Council.
(545 IAC 2.4)
4.   Administrative Transfers. The finance officer shall have the authority to
adjust, by transfer or otherwise, the appropriations allocated within a
specific activity without prior Council approval.
(545 IAC 2.4)
7.07   ACCOUNTING.
The accounting records of the City shall consist of not less than the
following:
1.   Books of Original Entry. There shall be established and maintained books
of original entry to provide a chronological record of cash received and
disbursed.
2.   General Ledger. There shall be established and maintained a general ledger
controlling all cash transactions, budgetary accounts and for recording
unappropriated surpluses.
3.   Checks. Two signatures are required on all City checks. Checks shall be
prenumbered and signed by any two of the following: Mayor, Mayor Pro Tem, City
Administrator and designated Council members, following Council approval,
except as provided by Subsection 5 hereof.
4.   Budget Accounts. There shall be established such individual accounts to
record receipts by source and expenditures by program and activity as will
provide adequate information and control for budgeting purposes as planned and
approved by the Council. Each individual account shall be maintained within its
proper fund and so kept that receipts can be immediately and directly compared
with revenue estimates and expenditures can be related to the authorizing
appropriation. No expenditure shall be posted except to the appropriation for
the function and purpose for which the expense was incurred.
5.   Immediate Payment Authorized. The Council may by resolution authorize the
Clerk to issue checks for immediate payment of amounts due, which if not paid
promptly would result in loss of discount, penalty for late payment or
additional interest cost. Any such payments made shall be reported to the
Council for review and approval with and in the same manner as other claims at
the next meeting following such payment. The resolution authorizing immediate
payment shall specify the type of payment so authorized and may include (but is
not limited to) payment of utility bills, contractual obligations, payroll, and
bond principal and interest.
7.08   FINANCIAL REPORTS.
The finance officer shall prepare and file the following financial reports:
1.   Monthly Reports. There shall be submitted to the Council each month a
report showing the activity and status of each fund, program, sub-program, and
activity for the preceding month.
2.   Annual Report. Not later than December 1 of each year there shall be
published an annual report containing a summary for the preceding fiscal year
of all collections and receipts, all accounts due the City, and all
expenditures, the current public debt of the City, and the legal debt limit of
the City for the current fiscal year. The Annual Financial Report shall be
prepared on forms and pursuant to instructions prescribed by the Auditor of
State. Beginning with the Annual Financial Report published by December 1,
2025, each report shall include a list of bonds, notes, or other obligations
issued by the City during the most recently completed fiscal year, and the
applicable lists for other fiscal years beginning on or after July 1, 2024, for
which obligations remain unpaid, payable from any source, including the amount
of the issuance, the project or purpose of the issuance, whether the issuance
was approved at election, eligible to be subject to a petition for an election,
or was exempt from approval at election as the result of statutory exclusions
based on population of the City or amount of the issuance, and identification
of issuances from the fiscal year or prior fiscal years related to the same
project or purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.22)
(Section 7.08 – Ord. 2024-08OR – Oct. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 8
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTIONS
 
8.01 Purpose                        8.06 Applications
8.02 Definitions                    8.07 Approval
8.03 Period of Partial Exemption    8.08 Exemption Repealed
8.04 Amounts Eligible for Exemption 8.09 Dual Exemptions Prohibited
8.05 Limitations
 
8.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a partial exemption from property
taxation of the actual value added to industrial real estate by the new
construction of industrial real estate, research-service facilities,
warehouses, and distribution centers.
8.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Actual value added” means the actual value added as of the first year for
which the exemption is received.
2.   “Distribution center” means a building or structure used primarily for the
storage of goods that are intended for subsequent shipment to retail outlets.
Distribution center does not mean a building or structure used primarily to
store raw agricultural products, used primarily by a manufacturer to store
goods to be used in the manufacturing process, used primarily for the storage
of petroleum products, or used for the retail sale of goods.
3.   “New construction” means new buildings and structures and includes new
buildings and structures that are constructed as additions to existing
buildings and structures. New construction does not include reconstruction of
an existing building or structure that does not constitute complete replacement
of an existing building or structure or refitting of an existing building or
structure unless the reconstruction of an existing building or structure is
required due to economic obsolescence and the reconstruction is necessary to
implement recognized industry standards for the manufacturing and processing of
specific products and the reconstruction is required for the owner of the
building or structure to continue competitively to manufacture or process those
products, which determination shall receive prior approval from the City
Council.
4.   “Research-service facilities” means a building or group of buildings
devoted primarily to research and development activities, including (but not
limited to) the design and production or manufacture of prototype products for
experimental use and corporate research services that do not have a primary
purpose of providing on-site services to the public.
5.   “Warehouse” means a building or structure used as a public warehouse for
the storage of goods pursuant to Chapter 554, Article 7, of the Code of Iowa,
except that it does not mean a building or structure used primarily to store
raw agricultural products or from which goods are sold at retail.
8.03   PERIOD OF PARTIAL EXEMPTION.
The actual value added to industrial real estate by the new construction of
industrial real estate, research-service facilities, warehouses, and
distribution centers is eligible to receive a partial exemption from taxation
for a period of five years. The exemption shall also apply to the acquisition
of or improvement to machinery and equipment assessed as real estate pursuant
to Section 427A.1[1e] of the Code of Iowa, unless the machinery or equipment is
part of the normal replacement or operating process to maintain or expand the
existing operational status.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
8.04   AMOUNTS ELIGIBLE FOR EXEMPTION.
The amount of actual value added, which is eligible to be exempt from taxation,
shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
1.   For the first year, 75 percent.
2.   For the second year, 60 percent.
3.   For the third year, 45 percent.
4.   For the fourth year, 30 percent.
5.   For the fifth year, 15 percent.
8.05   LIMITATIONS.
The granting of the exemption under this chapter for new construction
constituting complete replacement of an existing building or structure shall
not result in the assessed value of the industrial real estate being reduced
below the assessed value of the industrial real estate before the start of the
new construction added.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
8.06   APPLICATIONS.
An application shall be filed for each project resulting in actual value added
for which an exemption is claimed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)
1.   The application for exemption shall be filed by the owner of the property
with the local assessor by February 1 of the assessment year in which the value
added is first assessed for taxation.
2.   Applications for exemption shall be made on forms prescribed by the
Director of Revenue and shall contain information pertaining to the nature of
the improvement, its cost, and other information deemed necessary by the
Director of Revenue.
8.07   APPROVAL.
A person may submit a proposal to the City Council to receive prior approval
for eligibility for a tax exemption on new construction. If the City Council
resolves to consider such proposal, it shall publish notice and hold a public
hearing thereon. Thereafter, at least 30 days after such hearing, the City
Council, by ordinance, may give its prior approval of a tax exemption for new
construction if the new construction is in conformance with City zoning. Such
prior approval shall not entitle the owner to exemption from taxation until the
new construction has been completed and found to be qualified real estate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)
8.08   EXEMPTION REPEALED.
When in the opinion of the City Council continuation of the exemption granted
by this chapter ceases to be of benefit to the City, the City Council may
repeal this chapter, but all existing exemptions shall continue until their
expiration.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.5)
8.09   DUAL EXEMPTIONS PROHIBITED.
A property tax exemption under this chapter shall not be granted if the
property for which the exemption is claimed has received any other property tax
exemption authorized by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.6)
CHAPTER 9
URBAN RENEWAL
 
9.01 Purpose                     9.03 Reinbeck Urban Renewal Area (Deleting
                                 Property)
9.02 Reinbeck Urban Renewal Area 9.04 Reinbeck Redevelopment Urban Renwal Area
 
9.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the division of taxes levied on
the taxable property in the Urban Renewal Area of the City each year by and for
the benefit of the State, City, County, school districts, or other taxing
districts after the effective date of the ordinance codified by this chapter in
order to create a special fund to pay the principal of and interest on loans,
advances, or indebtedness, including bonds proposed to be issued by the City,
to finance projects in such area.
9.02   REINBECK URBAN RENEWAL AREA.
The provisions of this section apply to the Reinbeck Urban Renewal Area, the
boundaries of which are set out below, such area having been identified in the
Urban Renewal Plan approved by the Council by resolution adopted on November 1,
1999:
The West 1/4 of the Northwest 1/4 Section Twenty-eight (28), Township Eighty-
seven (87) North, Range Fifteen (15), West of the 5th P.M., Grundy County, Iowa
except Lots 3, 4, and 5 of County Auditor’s Plat of Lots 3 through 11,
Northwest 1/4 Section Twenty-eight (28), Township Eighty-seven (87) North,
Range Fifteen (15), West of the 5th P.M., Grundy County, Iowa;
The following lots of County Auditor’s Plat of Lots 3 through 11, Northwest 1/
4 Section Twenty-eight (28), Township eighty-seven (87) North, Range Fifteen
(15), West of the 5th P.M., Grundy County, Iowa: Lot 3; Lot 4; Lot 5; Lot 6
except North 134 feet and the East 365 feet of the South123 feet; Lot 7 except
East 140 feet of the South 240 feet; and Lot 11;
The abandoned railroad right-of-way of the former Chicago Great Western
Railroad in the Northwest 1/4 Section Twenty-eight (28), Township Eighty-seven
(87) North, Range Fifteen (15), West of the 5th P.M., Grundy County, Iowa;
The following lots of the Normal Park Additions, City of Reinbeck, Grundy
County, Iowa: Block 3, Lot 8, Block 4, the West 10 feet of Lot 3, Lot 4, Lot 5,
Lot 6, Lot 7, Lot 8, and Lot 9; and Block 5, except the East 155 feet of the
South half;
Beginning at the Southwest corner of Normal Park Addition, West 524 feet to the
(former) West City Limits, North 758 feet to the point which intersects with
South line of 3rd Street if extended, East 524 feet along South line of 3rd
Street to the West line of Normal Park Addition, South 758 feet to the point of
beginning;
All public right-of-way adjacent to the above described properties
The taxes levied on the taxable property in the Urban Renewal Area each year by
and for the benefit of the State, the City, the County, and any school district
or other taxing district in which the such Urban Renewal Area is located, from
and after the effective date of Ordinance No. 99-10-02, shall be divided as
follows:
1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which the
tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing property in the Urban
Renewal Area, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the calendar
year preceding the effective date of this ordinance, shall be allocated to and
when collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing district as
taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other property taxes are
paid. For the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing district
that did not include the territory in the Urban Renewal Area on the effective
date of Ordinance No. 99-10-02, but to which the territory has been annexed or
otherwise included after said effective date, the assessment roll as of January
1 of the calendar year preceding the effective date of this ordinance shall be
used in determining the assessed valuation of the taxable property in the Urban
Renewal Area on the effective date.
2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced or to indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9[1] of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area,
except that taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each taxing district
shall be collected against all property within the taxing district without
limitation by the provisions of this chapter. Unless and until the total
assessed valuation of the taxable property in the Urban Renewal Area exceeds
the total assessed value of the taxable property in such area as shown by the
assessment roll referred to in Subsection 1 of this section, all of the taxes
levied and collected upon the taxable property in the Urban Renewal Area shall
be paid into the funds for the respective taxing districts as taxes by or for
said taxing districts in the same manner as all other property taxes. When such
loans, advances, indebtedness and bonds, if any, and interest thereon, have
been paid, all money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property
in the Urban Renewal Area shall be paid into the funds for the respective
taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9[1] of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area.
9.03   REINBECK URBAN RENEWAL AREA (DELETING PROPERTY).
The following described property is hereby removed from the tax increment
financing district for the Reinbeck Urban Renewal Area:
Certain real property situated in the City of Reinbeck, Grundy County, State of
Iowa, bearing Grundy County Property Tax Parcel Number 871528208010 and legally
described as:
Lots 12 and 13 in Moeller’s Subdivision of Lots 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13, all in
Block E of Methfessel’s Original Plat of the Town of Reinbeck, Iowa.
No division of property tax revenues as provided under Section 403.19 of the
Code of Iowa shall be done with respect to the deleted property without further
action by the City Council.
(Section 9.03 – Ord. 2023-03OR – Oct. 24 Supp.)
9.04   REINBECK REDEVELOPMENT URBAN RENEWAL AREA.
The provisions of this section apply to the Reinbeck Redevelopment Urban
Renewal Area, the boundaries of which are set out below, such property having
been identified in the Urban Renewal Plan approved by the Council by resolution
adopted on November 6, 2023:
Certain real property situated in the City of Reinbeck, Grundy County, State of
Iowa, bearing Grundy County Property Tax Parcel Number 871528208010 and legally
described as:
Lots 12 and 13 in Moeller’s Subdivision of Lots 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13, all in
Block E of Methfessel’s Original Plat of the Town of Reinbeck, Iowa.
After the effective date of this ordinance, the taxes levied on the taxable
property in the Urban Renewal Area each year by and for the benefit of the
State of Iowa, the City, the County and any school district or other taxing
district in which the Urban Renewal Area is located, shall be divided as
follows:
1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which the
tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the total
sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the Urban Renewal Area, as
shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the calendar year preceding the
first calendar year in which the City certifies to the County Auditor the
amount of loans, advances, indebtedness, or bonds payable from the special fund
referred to in Subsection 2 below, shall be allocated to and when collected be
paid into the fund for the respective taxing district as taxes by or for said
taxing district into which all other property taxes are paid. For the purpose
of allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing district which did not include
the territory in the Urban Renewal Area on the effective date of this
ordinance, but to which the territory has been annexed or otherwise included
after the effective date, the assessment roll applicable to property in the
annexed territory as of January 1 of the calendar year preceding the effective
date of the ordinance which amends the plan for the Urban Renewal Area to
include the annexed area, shall be used in determining the assessed valuation
of the taxable property in the annexed area.
2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9(1), of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area,
and to provide assistance for low and moderate-income family housing as
provided in Section 403.22, except that taxes for the regular and voter-
approved physical plant and equipment levy of a school district imposed
pursuant to Section 298.2 of the Code of Iowa, taxes for the instructional
support levy program of a school district imposed pursuant to Section 257.19 of
the Code of Iowa, and taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each
taxing district shall be collected against all taxable property within the
taxing district without limitation by the provisions of this ordinance. Unless
and until the total assessed valuation of the taxable property in the Urban
Renewal Area exceeds the total assessed value of the taxable property in such
area as shown by the assessment roll referred to in Subsection 1 of this
section, all of the taxes levied and collected upon the taxable property in the
Urban Renewal Area shall be paid into the funds for the respective taxing
districts as taxes by or for said taxing districts in the same manner as all
other property taxes. When such loans, advances, indebtedness, and bonds, if
any, and interest thereon, have been paid, all money thereafter received from
taxes upon the taxable property in the Urban Renewal Area shall be paid into
the funds for the respective taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on
all other property.
3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area.
(Section 9.04 – Ord. 2023-04OR – Oct. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 15
MAYOR
 
15.01 Term of Office    15.04 Compensation
15.02 Powers and Duties 15.05 Voting
15.03 Appointments
 
15.01   TERM OF OFFICE.
The Mayor is elected for a term of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
15.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Mayor are as follows:
1.   Chief Executive Officer. Act as the chief executive officer of the City
and presiding officer of the Council, supervise all departments of the City,
except for supervisory duties delegated to the City Administrator, give
direction to department heads concerning the functions of the departments, and
have the power to examine all functions of the municipal departments, their
records and to call for special reports from department heads at any time.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
2.   Proclamation of Emergency. Have authority to take command of the police
and govern the City by proclamation, upon making a determination that a time of
emergency or public danger exists. Within the City limits, the Mayor has all
the powers conferred upon the Sheriff to suppress disorders.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[2])
3.   Special Meetings. Call special meetings of the Council when the Mayor
deems such meetings necessary to the interests of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
4.   Mayor’s Veto. Sign, veto, or take no action on an ordinance, amendment, or
resolution passed by the Council. The Mayor may veto an ordinance, amendment,
or resolution within 14 days after passage. The Mayor shall explain the reasons
for the veto in a written message to the Council at the time of the veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.5 and 380.6[2])
5.   Reports to Council. Make such oral or written reports to the Council as
required. These reports shall concern municipal affairs generally, the
municipal departments, and recommendations suitable for Council action.
6.   Negotiations. Represent the City in all negotiations properly entered into
in accordance with law or ordinance. The Mayor shall not represent the City
where this duty is specifically delegated to another officer by law, ordinance,
or Council direction.
7.   Contracts. Whenever authorized by the Council, sign contracts on behalf of
the City.
8.   Professional Services. Upon order of the Council, secure for the City such
specialized and professional services not already available to the City. In
executing the order of the Council, the Mayor shall act in accordance with this
Code of Ordinances and the laws of the State.
9.   Licenses and Permits. Sign all licenses and permits that have been granted
by the Council, except those designated by law or ordinance to be issued by
another municipal officer.
10.   Nuisances. Issue written order for removal, at public expense, any
nuisance for which no person can be found responsible and liable.
11.   Absentee Officer. Make appropriate provision that duties of any absentee
officer be carried on during such absence.
15.03   APPOINTMENTS.
The Mayor shall appoint the Mayor Pro Tem, and the Mayor also appoints, with
Council approval, the following officials:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
1.   Cemetery Board
2.   Memorial Building Commission
3.   Telecommunications Utility Board of Trustees
4.   Reinbeck Development Board
5.   Park and Recreation Board
15.04   COMPENSATION.
The salary of the Mayor is $200.00 per month, payable monthly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
15.05   VOTING.
The Mayor is not a member of the Council and shall not vote as a member of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
CHAPTER 16
MAYOR PRO TEM
 
16.01 Vice President of Council 16.03 Voting Rights
16.02 Powers and Duties         16.04 Compensation
 
16.01   VICE PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
The Mayor shall appoint a member of the Council as Mayor Pro Tem, who shall
serve as vice president of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
Except for the limitations otherwise provided herein, the Mayor Pro Tem shall
perform the duties of the Mayor in cases of absence or inability of the Mayor
to perform such duties. In the exercise of the duties of the office the Mayor
Pro Tem shall not have power to appoint, employ, or discharge from employment
officers or employees that the Mayor has the power to appoint, employ, or
discharge without the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.03   VOTING RIGHTS.
The Mayor Pro Tem shall have the right to vote as a member of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.04   COMPENSATION.
If the Mayor Pro Tem performs the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor’s
absence or disability for a continuous period of 15 days or more, the Mayor Pro
Tem may be paid for that period the compensation as determined by the Council,
based upon the Mayor Pro Tem’s performance of the Mayor’s duties and upon the
compensation of the Mayor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 17
CITY COUNCIL
 
17.01 Number and Term of Council 17.04 Council Meetings
17.02 Powers and Duties          17.05 Appointments
17.03 Exercise of Power          17.06 Compensation
 
17.01   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of five Council members elected at large for overlapping
terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4 and 376.2)
17.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Council include, but are not limited to the
following:
1.   General. All powers of the City are vested in the Council except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
2.   Wards. By ordinance, the Council may divide the City into wards based upon
population, change the boundaries of wards, eliminate wards, or create new
wards.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[7])
3.   Fiscal Authority. The Council shall apportion and appropriate all funds,
and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls, and claims, and order
payment thereof. It shall make all assessments for the cost of street
improvements, sidewalks, sewers, and other work, improvement, or repairs that
may be specially assessed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1], 384.16, and 384.38[1])
4.   Public Improvements. The Council shall make all orders for the
construction of any improvements, bridges, or buildings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
5.   Contracts. The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts. No contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the City unless
approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 26)
6.   Employees. The Council shall authorize, by resolution, the number, duties,
term of office, and compensation of employees or officers not otherwise
provided for by State law or the Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
7.   Setting Compensation for Elected Officers. By ordinance, the Council shall
prescribe the compensation of the Mayor, Council members, and other elected
City officers, but a change in the compensation of the Mayor does not become
effective during the term in which the change is adopted, and the Council shall
not adopt such an ordinance changing the compensation of any elected officer
during the months of November and December in the year of a regular City
election. A change in the compensation of Council members becomes effective for
all Council members at the beginning of the term of the Council members elected
at the election next following the change in compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
17.03   EXERCISE OF POWER.
The Council shall exercise a power only by the passage of a motion, a
resolution, an amendment, or an ordinance in the following manner:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[1])
1.   Action by Council. Passage of an ordinance, amendment, or resolution
requires a majority vote of all of the members of the Council. Passage of a
motion requires a majority vote of a quorum of the Council. A resolution must
be passed to spend public funds in excess of $100,000.00 on a public
improvement project, or to accept public improvements and facilities upon their
completion. Each Council member’s vote on a measure must be recorded. A measure
that fails to receive sufficient votes for passage shall be considered
defeated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.4)
2.   Overriding Mayor’s Veto. Within 30 days after the Mayor’s veto, the
Council may pass the measure again by a vote of not less than two-thirds of all
of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
3.   Measures Become Effective. Measures passed by the Council become effective
in one of the following ways:
   A.   An ordinance or amendment signed by the Mayor becomes effective when
the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a subsequent
effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1a])
   B.   A resolution signed by the Mayor becomes effective immediately upon
signing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1b])
   C.   A motion becomes effective immediately upon passage of the motion by
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1c])
   D.   If the Mayor vetoes an ordinance, amendment, or resolution and the
Council repasses the measure after the Mayor’s veto, a resolution becomes
effective immediately upon repassage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes a
law when the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a
subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
   E.   If the Mayor takes no action on an ordinance, amendment, or resolution,
a resolution becomes effective 14 days after the date of passage, and an
ordinance or amendment becomes law when the ordinance or a summary of the
ordinance is published, but not sooner than 14 days after the date of passage,
unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or
amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[3])
“All of the members of the Council” refers to all of the seats of the Council
including a vacant seat and a seat where the member is absent, but does not
include a seat where the Council member declines to vote by reason of a
conflict of interest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.1[a])
17.04   COUNCIL MEETINGS.
Procedures for giving notice of meetings of the Council and other provisions
regarding the conduct of Council meetings are contained in Section
5.06 of this Code of Ordinances. Additional particulars relating to Council
meetings are the following:
1.   Regular Meetings. The Council shall determine the time of holding their
meetings which shall be held in the Council room of the Reinbeck City Hall.
2.   Special Meetings. Special meetings shall be held upon call of the Mayor or
upon the request of a majority of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
3.   Quorum. A majority of all Council members is a quorum.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[1])
4.   Rules of Procedure. The Council shall determine its own rules and maintain
records of its proceedings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
5.   Compelling Attendance. Any three members of the Council can compel the
attendance of the absent members at any regular, adjourned, or duly called
meeting, by serving a written notice upon the absent members to attend at once.
17.05   APPOINTMENTS.
The Council shall appoint the following officials and prescribe their powers,
duties, compensation, and term of office:
1.   City Administrator
2.   City Attorney
3.   Planning and Zoning Commission
4.   Zoning Board of Adjustment
17.06   COMPENSATION.
The salary of each Council member is $25.00 for each meeting of the Council
attended, payable monthly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 18
CITY CLERK
 
18.01 Appointment and Compensation 18.08 Records
18.02 Powers and Duties: General   18.09 Attendance at Meetings
18.03 Publication of Minutes       18.10 Licenses and Permits
18.04 Recording Measures           18.11 Notification of Appointments
18.05 Other Publications           18.12 Elections
18.06 Authentication               18.13 City Seal
18.07 Certification
 
18.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
The City Administrator is ex officio City Clerk and has the duties, powers, and
functions prescribed in this chapter, by State law, and other ordinances of the
City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3])
18.02   POWERS AND DUTIES: GENERAL.
The Clerk (or, in the Clerk’s absence or inability to act, the Deputy Clerk)
has the powers and duties as provided in this chapter, this Code of Ordinances,
and the law.
18.03   PUBLICATION OF MINUTES.
Within 15 days following a regular or special meeting of the Council, the Clerk
shall cause the minutes of the proceedings of the Council, including the total
expenditure from each City fund, to be delivered to a newspaper of general
circulation in the City for publication. The publication shall include a list
of all claims allowed and a summary of all receipts and shall show the gross
amount of the claims.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(6))
(Section 18.03 – Ord. 2024-10OR – Oct. 24 Supp.)
18.04   RECORDING MEASURES.
The Clerk shall promptly record each measure considered by the Council and
record a statement with the measure, where applicable, indicating whether the
Mayor signed, vetoed, or took no action on the measure, and whether the measure
was repassed after the Mayor’s veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[1 and 2])
18.05   OTHER PUBLICATIONS.
The Clerk shall cause to be published all ordinances, enactments, proceedings,
and official notices requiring publication as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3)
1.   Time. If notice of an election, hearing, or other official action is
required by this Code of Ordinances or law, the notice must be published at
least once, not less than four or more than 20 days before the date of the
election, hearing, or other action, unless otherwise provided by law.
2.   Manner of Publication. A publication required by this Code of Ordinances
or law must be in a newspaper published at least once weekly and having general
circulation in the City.
18.06   AUTHENTICATION.
The Clerk shall authenticate all measures except motions with the Clerk’s
signature, certifying the time and manner of publication when required.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[4])
18.07   CERTIFICATION.
The Clerk shall certify all measures establishing any zoning district, building
lines, or fire limits and a plat showing the district, lines, or limits to the
recorder of the County containing the affected parts of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.11)
18.08   RECORDS.
The Clerk shall maintain the specified City records in the following manner:
1.   Ordinances and Codes. Maintain copies of all effective City ordinances and
codes for public use.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[5])
2.   Custody. Have custody and be responsible for the safekeeping of all
writings or documents in which the City is a party in interest unless otherwise
specifically directed by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
3.   Maintenance. Maintain all City records and documents (or accurate
reproductions) for at least five years except that ordinances, resolutions,
Council proceedings, records, and documents (or accurate reproductions)
relating to the issuance, cancellation, transfer, redemption, or replacement of
public bonds or obligations shall be kept for at least 11 years following the
final maturity of the bonds or obligations. Ordinances, resolutions, Council
proceedings, records, and documents (or accurate reproductions) relating to
real property transactions shall be maintained permanently.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3 and 5])
4.   Provide Copy. Furnish upon request to any municipal officer a copy of any
record, paper, or public document under the Clerk’s control when it may be
necessary to such officer in the discharge of such officer’s duty; furnish a
copy to any citizen when requested upon payment of the fee set by Council
resolution; under the direction of the Mayor or other authorized officer, affix
the seal of the City to those public documents or instruments that by this Code
of Ordinances are required to be attested by the affixing of the seal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4 and 5] and 380.7[5])
5.   Filing of Communications. Keep and file all communications and petitions
directed to the Council or to the City generally. The Clerk shall endorse
thereon the action of the Council taken upon matters considered in such
communications and petitions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.09   ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
The Clerk shall attend all regular and special Council meetings and, at the
direction of the Council, the Clerk shall attend meetings of committees,
boards, and commissions. The Clerk shall record and preserve a correct record
of the proceedings of such meetings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.10   LICENSES AND PERMITS.
The Clerk shall issue or revoke licenses and permits when authorized by this
Code of Ordinances, and keep a record of licenses and permits issued which
shall show date of issuance, license or permit number, official receipt number,
name of person to whom issued, term of license or permit, and purpose for which
issued.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.11   NOTIFICATION OF APPOINTMENTS.
The Clerk shall inform all persons appointed by the Mayor or Council to offices
in the City government of their positions and the time at which they shall
assume the duties of their offices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.12   ELECTIONS.
The Clerk shall perform the duties relating to elections in accordance with
Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa.
18.13   CITY SEAL.
The City seal is in the custody of the Clerk and shall be attached by the Clerk
to all transcripts, orders, and certificates that it may be necessary or proper
to authenticate. The City seal is circular in form, in the center of which are
the words “REINBECK, IOWA” and around the margin of which are the words “TOWN
SEAL.”
CHAPTER 19
CITY TREASURER
 
19.01 Appointment  19.03 Duties of Treasurer
19.02 Compensation
 
19.01   APPOINTMENT.
The City Clerk is the Treasurer and performs all functions required of the
position of Treasurer.
19.02   COMPENSATION.
The Clerk receives no additional compensation for performing the duties of the
Treasurer.
19.03   DUTIES OF TREASURER.
The duties of the Treasurer are as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Custody of Funds. Be responsible for the safe custody of all funds of the
City in the manner provided by law and Council direction.
2.   Record of Fund. Keep the record of each fund separate.
3.   Record Receipts. Keep an accurate record of all money or securities
received by the Treasurer on behalf of the City and specify the date, from
whom, and for what purpose received.
4.   Record Disbursements. Keep an accurate account of all disbursements,
money, or property, specifying date, to whom, and from what fund paid.
5.   Special Assessments. Keep a separate account of all money received by the
Treasurer from special assessments.
6.   Deposit Funds. Upon receipt of moneys to be held in the Treasurer’s
custody and belonging to the City, deposit the same in depositories selected by
the Council.
7.   Reconciliation. Reconcile depository statements with the Treasurer’s books
and certify monthly to the Council the balance of cash and investments of each
fund and amounts received and disbursed.
8.   Debt Service. Keep a register of all bonds outstanding and record all
payments of interest and principal.
9.   Other Duties. Perform such other duties as specified by the Council by
resolution or ordinance.
CHAPTER 20
CITY ATTORNEY
 
20.01 Appointment and Compensation 20.05 Review and Comment
20.02 Attorney for City            20.06 Provide Legal Opinion
20.03 Power of Attorney            20.07 Attendance at Council Meetings
20.04 Ordinance Preparation        20.08 Prepare Documents
 
20.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Attorney to serve at the
discretion of the Council. The City Attorney shall receive such compensation as
established by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.02   ATTORNEY FOR CITY.
The City Attorney shall act as attorney for the City in all matters affecting
the City’s interest and appear on behalf of the City before any court,
tribunal, commission, or board. The City Attorney shall prosecute or defend all
actions and proceedings when so requested by the Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.03   POWER OF ATTORNEY.
The City Attorney shall sign the name of the City to all appeal bonds and to
all other bonds or papers of any kind that may be essential to the prosecution
of any cause in court, and when so signed the City shall be bound upon the
same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.04   ORDINANCE PREPARATION.
The City Attorney shall prepare those ordinances that the Council may desire
and direct to be prepared and report to the Council upon all such ordinances
before their final passage by the Council and publication.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.05   REVIEW AND COMMENT.
The City Attorney shall, upon request, make a report to the Council giving an
opinion on all contracts, documents, resolutions, or ordinances submitted to or
coming under the City Attorney’s notice.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.06   PROVIDE LEGAL OPINION.
The City Attorney shall give advice or a written legal opinion on City
contracts and all questions of law relating to City matters submitted by the
Council, the Mayor, members of the Council individually, municipal boards, or
the head of any municipal department.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.07   ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
The City Attorney shall attend meetings of the Council at the request of the
Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.08   PREPARE DOCUMENTS.
The City Attorney shall, upon request, formulate drafts for contracts, forms,
and other writings that may be required for the use of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
CHAPTER 21
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
 
21.01 Appointment and Term          21.04 General Supervision
21.02 Compensation                  21.05 Duties
21.03 Administrative Responsibility
 
21.01   APPOINTMENT AND TERM.
The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Administrator to serve at the
discretion of the Council. The Administrator shall be subject to the
supervision and direction of the Council and shall implement policy and
legislative decisions approved by the Council.
21.02   COMPENSATION.
The City Administrator shall receive such salary as the Council shall from time
to time determine by resolution, and payment shall be made from the treasury of
the City, in the manner provided for paying other officers and employees.
21.03   ADMINISTRATIVE RESPONSIBILITY.
The City Administrator is directly responsible to the Council for the
administration of municipal affairs as directed by the Council. All City
departmental administration requiring the attention of the Council shall be
brought before the Council by the City Administrator and all Council
involvement in administration initiated by the Council must be coordinated
through the City Administrator.
21.04   GENERAL SUPERVISION.
The Administrator shall have general supervision and direction of the
administration of the City government The Administrator shall give
recommendations to the Council on measures that may be necessary or expedient
for good government and the welfare of the City. The Administrator shall have
the power to examine all functions and records of the municipal departments,
boards and commissions at any time; and shall make recommendations to the heads
of departments, boards and commissions concerning their functions.
21.05   DUTIES.
The duties of the City Administrator are as follows:
1.   Supervise and direct the official conduct of all officers, departments and
employees of the City, specifically including but not limited to the police,
fire, street, water, sewer, and building inspection departments, and shall make
recommendations to the Council as to the employment, discipline, and discharge
of such officers and employees. Decisions regarding the employment, discipline,
and discharge of employees working for departments that have a governing board
or commission shall be made in consultation with the City Administrator. When
the governing board or commission and City Administrator disagree about
employment, discipline, or discharge actions, the final decision rests with the
City Council.
2.   Be responsible for the implementation and administration of the City’s
Personnel Policies, as approved by the City Council.
3.   Coordinate the activities of the City’s departments, boards, and
commissions.
4.   Supervise enforcement and execution of the City laws.
5.   With approval of the Council, represent the City in negotiations.
6.   Supervise the performance of all contracts or agreements for the City,
supervise all purchases of material and supplies, and see that such material
and supplies are received and are of the quality and character called for by
the contract. All contracts and agreements must be approved by the Council as
required by law.
7.   Supervise the construction, improvement, repair, maintenance, and
management of all City property, capital improvements and undertakings of the
City, including the making and preservation of all surveys, maps, plans,
drawings, specifications, and estimates for capital improvements.
8.   Provide for and cause records to be kept of the issuance and revocation of
licenses and permits authorized by City law.
9.   Keep the Mayor and Council fully advised of the financial and other
conditions of the City and its future needs; provide periodic, itemized
financial reports; and submit all necessary City, County, State, and federal
reports.
10.   Conduct the business affairs of the City and cause accurate records to be
kept by modern and efficient accounting methods.
11.   Make an oral or written report to the Council at the Council meeting each
month, or as requested or needed. The report shall concern general municipal
affairs, municipal departments, and recommendations suitable for action by the
Council.
12.   Perform such other duties as outlined in the positions’ job description
and as the Council may direct.
CHAPTER 22
LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
22.01 Public Library             22.11 Employees
22.02 Organization               22.12 Planning
22.03 Terms                      22.13 Rules
22.04 Officers                   22.14 Penalties
22.05 General Powers             22.15 Power to Contract
22.06 Purchases                  22.16 Nonresident Use of the Library
22.07 Budget                     22.17 Reports
22.08 Appropriation              22.18 Other Powers and Duties
22.09 Petty Cash                 22.19 Compensation
22.10 Deposit of Municipal Funds
 
22.01   PUBLIC LIBRARY.
The public library for the City is known as the Reinbeck Public Library. It is
referred to in this chapter as the Library.
22.02   ORGANIZATION.
The Library Board shall consist of five members. Four members shall be elected
at large within the City and one member shall be elected by the City voters
from among qualified residents of the Reinbeck Community School District
residing outside of the City limits and within Grundy County.
22.03   TERMS.
Terms of Library Board members shall be four years with staggered terms to be
established in the 1981 regular City election, in that the majority of the
elected Library Board members who receive the highest number of votes shall be
elected to four year terms and the remainder shall be elected for initial two-
year terms, thereafter to be elected to four-year terms.
22.04   OFFICERS.
At the first meeting of the Library Board after January 1 following a regular
City election, the members shall organize by naming a Chairperson and a
Secretary from its membership. The Librarian shall serve as Treasurer, but
shall not be a member of the Board.
22.05   GENERAL POWERS.
The Library Board (in consultation with the City Administrator) shall have
authority over the properties and personnel of the public library, subject to
the limitation on expenditures set forth in the annual budget provided by the
Council.
22.06   PURCHASES.
The Library Board shall have authority to select, or authorize the Librarian to
select, and make purchase of books, pamphlets, magazines, periodicals, papers,
maps, journals, and other library materials, furniture, fixtures, stationery,
and supplies for the library, subject to the limitation on expenditures set
forth in the annual budget provided by the City Council. The Library Board
shall follow the purchasing procedures established for all City departments by
the Council.
22.07   BUDGET.
The Library Board shall prepare a proposed budget for the purpose of operating
and maintaining the public library. Such budget shall be submitted to the City
Administrator with such details as required by the Council on or before the
first day of the month preceding the month in which falls the date of hearing
on the budget for the following fiscal year.
22.08   APPROPRIATION.
The Library Board shall have authority to order expenditure of such moneys as
are appropriated for it by the Council. The City Administrator shall have
custody of Library moneys, which shall be kept in the General Fund unless
otherwise transferred by the Council to a trust or capital improvement fund.
22.09   PETTY CASH.
The Library Board may maintain a petty cash fund not to exceed $100.00 for the
purpose of providing change to patrons and making small purchases. The Library
Board shall provide an accounting of any purchases to the Clerk on or before
the tenth of each month.
22.10   DEPOSIT OF MUNICIPAL FUNDS.
The Library Board shall keep a correct account of all moneys or property
belonging to the municipality that it receives, stating from where and on what
account paid. It shall, on or before the tenth of each month, pay to the City
Administrator all moneys received by it during the preceding month and take the
City Administrator’s receipt therefor.
22.11   EMPLOYEES.
The Library Board (in consultation with the City Administrator) shall have
power to employ a Librarian and other personnel in accordance with the City’s
personnel policy and direct such employees in their work. The City
Administrator may allocate City employees’ time to work on library facilities
as agreed upon with the Library Board, and such employees shall carry out the
work as directed by the City Administrator.
22.12   PLANNING.
The Library Board shall make plans for the development and use of the public
library.
22.13   RULES.
The Library Board shall have power to make rules and regulations for the use
and management of library facilities, subject to the approval of the rules by
the Council. Such rules shall be either posted on the facility or otherwise
publicized in a manner to provide adequate notice to the using public.
22.14   PENALTIES.
Violation of a Library Board rule which has been approved by the Council or
adopted by ordinance may be cause for denial of use of a facility or
participation in a program, but such denial which extends more than one day may
be appealed to the City Council for a hearing. Anyone violating a Library Board
rule or regulation shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a municipal infraction
as set out under
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
22.15   POWER TO CONTRACT.
The Library Board may contract with any other boards of free public libraries,
any other City, school corporation, private or semi-private organization,
institution of higher learning, township, or county, or with the trustees of
any county library district for the use of the library by their respective
residents. Such a contract may be terminated at any time by mutual consent of
the contracting parties. It also may be terminated by a majority vote of the
electors represented by either party on a written petition of not less than
five percent in number of the electors who voted for governor in the state of
the party at the last general election. The petition must be presented to the
governing body not less than 40 days before said election. The proposition may
be submitted at any election provided by law that is held in the territory of
the party who is seeking to terminate the contract.
22.16   NONRESIDENT USE OF THE LIBRARY.
The Library Board may authorize the use of the library by nonresidents in any
one or more of the following ways:
1.   By lending the books or other materials of the library to nonresidents on
the same terms and conditions as to the residents of the City, or upon payment
of a special, nonresident library fee.
2.   By establishing depositories of library books or other materials to be
loaned to nonresidents.
3.   By establishing bookmobiles or a traveling library so that books or other
library materials may be loaned to nonresidents.
4.   By establishing branch libraries for lending books or other library
materials to nonresidents.
22.17   REPORTS.
The Library Board shall make written reports to the Council of its activities
from time to time as it deems advisable or upon Council request. Its revenues
and expenditures shall be reported monthly by the City Administrator in the
manner of other departmental revenues and expenditures, and a copy shall be
provided to each member of the Library Board and in the City Administrator’s
report to the Council.
22.18   OTHER POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Library Board shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as
may be provided by the Council, the ordinances of the City, or the laws of the
State.
22.19   COMPENSATION.
The members of the Library Board shall receive no compensation for their
services.
CHAPTER 23
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
 
23.01 Planning and Zoning Commission 23.04 Compensation
23.02 Term of Office                 23.05 Powers and Duties
23.03 Vacancies
 
23.01   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
The City Planning and Zoning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the
Commission, consists of five members appointed by the Council. The Commission
members shall be residents of the City and shall not hold any elective office
in the City government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6 and 392.1)
23.02   TERM OF OFFICE.
The term of office of the members of the Commission shall be staggered three-
year terms.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.03   VACANCIES.
If any vacancy exists on the Commission, caused by resignation or otherwise, a
successor for the residue of the term shall be appointed in the same manner as
the original appointee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.04   COMPENSATION.
All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, except their
actual expenses, which shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Commission shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
1.   Selection of Officers. The Commission shall choose annually at its first
regular meeting one of its members to act as Chairperson and another as Vice
Chairperson, who shall perform all the duties of the Chairperson during the
Chairperson’s absence or disability.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
2.   Adopt Rules and Regulations. The Commission shall adopt such rules and
regulations governing its organization and procedure as it may deem necessary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
3.   Zoning. The Commission shall have and exercise all the powers and duties
and privileges in establishing the City zoning regulations and other related
matters and may from time to time recommend to the Council amendments,
supplements, changes, or modifications, all as provided by Chapter 414 of the
Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6)
4.   Recommendations on Improvements. The design and proposed location of
public improvements shall be submitted to the Commission for its
recommendations prior to any actions being taken by the City for the
construction or placement of such improvements. Such requirements and
recommendations shall not act as a stay upon action for any such improvement if
the Commission, after 30 days’ written notice requesting such recommendations,
has failed to file the same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
5.   Review and Comment on Plats. All plans, plats, or re-plats of subdivisions
or re-subdivisions of land in the City or adjacent thereto, laid out in lots or
plats with the streets, alleys, or other portions of the same intended to be
dedicated to the public in the City, shall first be submitted to the Commission
and its recommendations obtained before approval by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
6.   Fiscal Responsibilities. The Commission shall have full, complete, and
exclusive authority to expend, for and on behalf of the City, all sums of money
appropriated to it and to use and expend all gifts, donations, or payments that
are received by the City for City planning and zoning purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
7.   Limitation on Entering Contracts. The Commission shall have no power to
contract debts beyond the amount of its original or amended appropriation as
approved by the Council for the present year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
8.   Annual Report. The Commission shall each year make a report to the Mayor
and Council of its proceedings, with a full statement of its receipts and
disbursements and the progress of its work during the preceding fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
CHAPTER 24
PARK AND RECREATION BOARD
 
24.01 Park and Recreation Board Established 24.04 Budgets
24.02 Compensation                          24.05 Reports
24.03 General Powers                        24.06 Rules
 
24.01   PARK AND RECREATION BOARD ESTABLISHED.
A Park and Recreation Board is hereby established to make plans for the
development and use of park and recreational facilities in the City. The Park
and Recreation Board consists of five members, all residents of the City,
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Council, for staggered two-year
terms. The Board shall, at the first meeting of the year following each regular
municipal election, organize by naming a Chairperson and a Secretary from its
membership.
24.02   COMPENSATION.
Members of the Park and Recreation Board shall receive no compensation for
their services.
24.03   GENERAL POWERS.
1.   The Park and Recreation Board (in consultation with the City
Administrator) shall have authority over the properties and personnel devoted
to parks and recreation, subject to the limitation on expenditures set forth in
the annual budget provided by the Council.
2.   The Park and Recreation Board shall have power to employ non-maintenance
personnel (e.g., lifeguards, coaches, etc.) in accordance with the City’s
personnel policy and direct such employees in their work. The City
Administrator may allocate City employees’ time to work in the parks and other
facilities under the control of the Park and Recreation Board.
24.04   BUDGET.
1.   The Park and Recreation Board shall prepare a proposed budget for the
purpose of operating and maintaining the parks, recreational grounds, and
recreational facilities under its charge. Such budget shall be submitted to the
City Administrator at such time and with such details as required by the
Council.
2.   The Park and Recreation Board shall have authority to order the
expenditure of such moneys that are appropriated for it by the Council. The
City Administrator shall have custody of park moneys, which shall be kept in
the General Fund unless otherwise transferred by the Council to a trust or
capital improvement fund. The Park and Recreation Board shall follow the
purchasing procedures established for all City departments by the Council.
24.05   REPORTS.
The Park and Recreation Board shall make written reports to the Council of its
activities from time to time as it deems advisable or upon Council request. Its
revenues and expenditures shall be reported monthly by the City Administrator
in the manner of other departmental revenues and expenditures, and a copy shall
be provided to each member of the Board and in the City Administrator’s report
to the Council.
24.06   RULES.
The Park and Recreation Board shall have power to make rules and regulations
for the use of park or other recreational facilities or for the conduct of
recreation programs, subject to the approval of the rules by the Council. Such
rules shall be either posted on the facility or otherwise publicized in a
manner to provide adequate notice to the using public. Violation of a rule or
regulation so posted or publicized may be cause for denial of use of the
facility, but such denial which extends more than one day may be appealed to
the City Council; if it is a violation of this Code of Ordinances, it may be
prosecuted as a municipal infraction.
CHAPTER 25
TELECOMMUNICATIONS UTILITY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
 
25.01 Purpose                 25.06 Powers and Duties of the Board
25.02 Board Established       25.07 Control of Funds
25.03 Appointment of Trustees 25.08 Accounting
25.04 Compensation            25.09 Discriminatory Rates Illegal
25.05 Vacancies               25.10 Discontinuance of Board
 
25.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the operation of the municipally
owned telecommunications utility by a board of trustees.
25.02   BOARD ESTABLISHED.
Pursuant to an election held May 9, 2000, the management and control of the
municipally owned Reinbeck Telecommunications Utility were placed in the hands
of a Board of Trustees.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.2)
25.03   APPOINTMENT OF TRUSTEES.
The Mayor shall appoint, subject to the approval of the Council, five persons
to serve as trustees for staggered six-year terms. A public officer or salaried
employee of the City shall not serve on the Utility Board.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.3)
25.04   COMPENSATION.
The Council shall by resolution set the compensation of Board members.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.3)
25.05   VACANCIES.
An appointment to fill a vacancy on the Board of Trustees shall be made in the
same manner as an original appointment except that such appointment shall be
for the balance of the unexpired term.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.3)
25.06   POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
The Board of Trustees may exercise all powers of the City in relation to the
City Utility, with the following exceptions:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.4)
1.   Taxes, Ordinances, and Bonds. The Board may not certify taxes to be
levied, pass ordinances or amendments, or issue general obligation or special
assessment bonds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.4[1])
2.   Property. Title to all property must be in the name of the City but the
Board has full control of such property subject to limitations imposed by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.4[2])
3.   Reports to Council. The Board shall make a detailed annual report to the
Council, including a complete financial statement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.4[3])
4.   Proceedings Published. Immediately following a regular or special meeting,
the Board Secretary shall prepare and cause to be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the City a condensed statement of proceedings, including
a list of all claims.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.4[4])
25.07   CONTROL OF FUNDS.
The Board shall control tax revenues allocated to it as well as all moneys
derived from operations, the sale of utility property, interest on investments,
or from any other source related to the City utility.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.5)
25.08   ACCOUNTING.
All utility moneys are held in a separate utility fund, with a separate account
for each utility. Moneys may be paid out of the utility account only at the
direction of the Board.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.5)
25.09   DISCRIMINATORY RATES ILLEGAL.
The utility may not provide use or service at a discriminatory rate, except to
the City or its agencies, as provided in Section 384.91, Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.6)
25.10   DISCONTINUANCE OF BOARD.
A proposal, on motion of the Council or upon receipt of a valid petition, to
discontinue the Utility Board is subject to the approval of the voters of the
City, except that the Board may be discontinued by resolution of the Council
when the utility it administers is disposed of or leased for a period of over
five years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.2)
CHAPTER 26
MEMORIAL BUILDING COMMISSION
 
26.01 Commission Established 26.04 Budget
26.02 Compensation           26.05 Reports
26.03 General Powers         26.06 Rules
 
26.01   COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
A Memorial Building Commission is hereby established. The Commission consists
of five members, all residents of the City, appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the Council, for overlapping terms of three years. Each term shall
commence on January 1. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the
original appointment for the balance of the term. The Commission shall, at the
first meeting of the year following each regular municipal election, organize
by naming a Chairperson and a Secretary from its membership.
26.02   COMPENSATION.
Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation.
26.03   GENERAL POWERS.
1.   The Commission shall have authority over and shall be responsible for the
management of the Reinbeck Memorial Building, subject to the limitation on
expenditures set forth in the annual budget provided by the Council.
2.   The Commission (in consultation with the City Administrator) shall have
power to employ personnel in accordance with the City’s personnel policy and
direct such employees in their work. The City Administrator may allocate City
employees’ time to work at the memorial building, as agreed upon with the
Commission, and such employees shall carry out the work as directed by the City
Administrator.
26.04   BUDGET.
1.   The Commission shall prepare a proposed budget for the purpose of
operating and maintaining the Reinbeck Memorial Building. Such budget shall be
submitted to the City Administrator at such time and with such details as
required by the Council.
2.   The Commission shall have authority to order the expenditure of such
moneys that are appropriated for it by the Council. The City Administrator
shall have custody of the memorial building moneys, which shall be kept in the
General Fund unless otherwise transferred by the Council to a trust or capital
improvement fund. The Commission shall follow the purchasing procedures
established for all City departments by the Council.
26.05   REPORTS.
The Commission shall make written reports to the Council of its activities from
time to time as it deems advisable or upon Council request. Its revenues and
expenditures shall be reported monthly by the City Administrator in the manner
of other departmental revenues and expenditures, and a copy shall be provided
to each member of the Commission and in the City Administrator’s report to the
Council.
26.06   RULES.
The Commission shall have power to make rules and regulations for the use of
the memorial building or for the conduct of programs therein, subject to the
approval of the rules by the Council. Such rules shall be either posted on the
facility or otherwise publicized in a manner to provide adequate notice to the
using public. Violation of a rule or regulation so posted or publicized may be
cause for denial of use of the facility or participation in a program, but such
denial that extends more than one day may be appealed to the City Council; if
it is a violation of this Code of Ordinances, it may be prosecuted as a
municipal infraction.
CHAPTER 27
CEMETERY BOARD
 
27.01 Definition        27.05 Budget
27.02 Board Established 27.06 Records
27.03 Compensation      27.07 Reports
27.04 General Powers    27.08 Rules
 
27.01   DEFINITION.
The term “cemetery” means the Reinbeck Cemetery, which is a municipal cemetery
under the provisions of Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa and which shall be
operated under the provisions of Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa and this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.501)
27.02   BOARD ESTABLISHED.
A Cemetery Board is hereby established. The Board consists of three members,
all residents of the City, appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the
Council, for two-year terms. Each term shall commence on January 1. Vacancies
shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment for the balance
of the term. The Board shall select a Chairperson and a Secretary from its
membership every two years.
27.03   COMPENSATION.
Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
27.04   GENERAL POWERS.
1.   The Board (in consultation with the City Administrator) shall have
authority over the municipal cemetery and cemetery equipment subject to the
limitation on expenditures set forth in the annual budget provided by the
Council.
2.   The Board (in consultation with the City Administrator) shall have power
to employ personnel in accordance with the City’s personnel policy and direct
such employees in their work. The City Administrator may allocate City
employees’ time to work at the cemetery, as agreed upon with the Board, and
such employees shall carry out the work as directed by the City Administrator.
27.05   BUDGET.
1.   The Board shall prepare a proposed budget for the purpose of maintaining
the grounds and facilities under its charge. Such budget shall be submitted to
the City Administrator at such time and with such details as required by the
Council.
2.   The Board shall have authority to order the expenditure of such moneys
that are appropriated for it by the Council. The City Administrator shall have
custody of the cemetery moneys, which shall be kept in the General Fund unless
otherwise transferred by the Council to a trust or capital improvement fund.
The Board shall follow the purchasing procedures established for all City
departments by the Council.
27.06   RECORDS.
The Board shall make and keep complete records identifying the owners of all
interment rights sold by the cemetery and historical information regarding any
transfers of ownership in accordance with Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa. The
records shall include all of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.311)
1.   Sales or Transfers of Interment Rights.
   A.   The name and last known address of each owner or previous owner of
interment rights.
   B.   The date of each purchase or transfer of interment rights.
   C.   A unique numeric or alphanumeric identifier that identifies the
location of each interment space sold by the cemetery.
2.   Interments.
   A.   The date the remains are interred.
   B.   The name, date of birth, and date of death of the decedent interred, if
those facts can be conveniently obtained.
   C.   A unique numeric or alphanumeric identifier that identifies the
location of each interment space where the remains are interred.
27.07   REPORTS.
The Board shall make written reports to the Council of its activities from time
to time as it deems advisable or upon Council request. Its revenues and
expenditures shall be reported monthly by the City Administrator in the manner
of other departmental revenues and expenditures, and a copy shall be provided
to each member of the Board and in the City Administrator’s report to the
Council.
27.08   RULES.
The Board shall have power to make rules and regulations for the use of the
grounds and facilities under its charge, subject to the provisions of Section
523I.304 of the Code of Iowa and subject to the approval of the rules by the
Council. Such rules shall be either posted on the facility or otherwise
publicized in a manner to provide adequate notice to the using public.
CHAPTER 28
DEVELOPMENT BOARD
 
28.01 Board Established 28.04 Budget
28.02 Compensation      28.05 Reports
28.03 General Powers
 
28.01   BOARD ESTABLISHED.
The Reinbeck Development Board is hereby established. The Board consists of
between five and 20 members appointed by the Mayor, upon nomination by the
Secretary of the Board, for overlapping terms of six years. The initial number
on the Board shall be 12 members, and this number shall change from time to
time upon ratification of the City Council. Upon expiration of member terms,
the members shall be replaced or reaffirmed for six-year terms. The Board
shall, at the first meeting of each year, organize by naming a Chairperson,
Vice Chairperson and a Secretary from its membership.
28.02   COMPENSATION.
Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
28.03   GENERAL POWERS.
1.   The Development Board (in consultation with the City Administrator) shall
have authority over the properties and personnel to promote the general welfare
of businesses, professional services, and community interests of the residents
of Reinbeck and the territory surrounding the City. Further, the Board shall
promote Reinbeck as a “home town,” through improvement, development, promotion,
and expansion of those services and attributes which will help Reinbeck become
the best community within the Cedar Valley in which to work and raise a family.
The Board shall develop and implement such plans as deemed necessary to carry
out its purposes.
2.   The Board (in consultation with the City Administrator) shall have power
to employ personnel in accordance with the City’s personnel policy and direct
such employees in their work. The City Administrator may allocate City
employees’ time to work under the control of the Board, as agreed upon with the
Board, and such employees shall carry out the work as directed by the City
Administrator.
28.04   BUDGET.
1.   The Board shall prepare a proposed budget for its purposes. Such budget
shall be submitted to the City Administrator at such time and with such details
as required by the Council.
2.   The Board shall have authority to order the expenditure of such moneys
that are appropriated for it by the Council. The City Administrator shall have
custody of the moneys, which shall be kept in the General Fund unless otherwise
transferred by the Council to a trust or capital improvement fund. The Board
shall follow the purchasing procedures established for all City departments by
the Council.
28.05   REPORTS.
The Board shall make written reports to the Council of its activities from time
to time as it deems advisable or upon Council request. Its revenues and
expenditures shall be reported monthly by the City Administrator in the manner
of other departmental revenues and expenditures, and a copy shall be provided
to each member of the Board and in the City Administrator’s report to the
Council.
CHAPTER 30
POLICE DEPARTMENT
 
30.01 Department Established       30.07 Powers and Duties of Police Chief
30.02 Organization                 30.08 Departmental Rules
30.03 Peace Officer Qualifications 30.09 Summoning Aid
30.04 Required Training            30.10 Taking Weapons
30.05 Compensation                 30.11 Contract Law Enforcement
30.06 Police Chief Appointed
 
30.01   DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
The Police Department of the City is established to provide for the
preservation of peace and enforcement of law and ordinances within the
corporate limits of the City.
30.02   ORGANIZATION.
The department consists of the Police Chief and such other law enforcement
officers and personnel, whether full or part time, as may be authorized by the
Council.
30.03   PEACE OFFICER QUALIFICATIONS.
In no case shall any person be selected or appointed as a law enforcement
officer unless such person meets the minimum qualification standards
established by the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11)
30.04   REQUIRED TRAINING.
All peace officers shall have received the minimum training required by law at
an approved law enforcement training school within one year of employment.
Peace officers shall also meet the minimum in-service training as required by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11[2])
(501 IAC 3 and 8)
30.05   COMPENSATION.
Members of the department are designated by rank and receive such compensation
as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
30.06   POLICE CHIEF APPOINTED.
The Mayor shall appoint and dismiss the Police Chief subject to the consent of
a majority of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
30.07   POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE CHIEF.
The Police Chief has the following powers and duties subject to the approval of
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   General. Perform all duties required of the Police Chief by law or
ordinance.
2.   Enforce Laws. Enforce all laws, ordinances, and regulations and bring all
persons committing any offense before the proper court.
3.   Writs. Execute and return all writs and other processes directed to the
Police Chief.
4.   Accident Reports. Report all motor vehicle accidents investigated to the
State Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.266)
5.   Prisoners. Be responsible for the custody of prisoners, including
conveyance to detention facilities as may be required.
6.   Assist Officials. When requested, provide aid to other City officers,
boards, and commissions in the execution of their official duties.
7.   Investigations. Provide for such investigation as may be necessary for the
prosecution of any person alleged to have violated any law or ordinance.
8.   Record of Arrests. Keep a record of all arrests made in the City by
showing whether said arrests were made under provisions of State law or City
ordinance, the offense charged, who made the arrest, and the disposition of the
charge.
9.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report as
well as such other reports as may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
10.   Command. Be in command of all officers appointed for police work and be
responsible for the care, maintenance, and use of all vehicles, equipment, and
materials of the department.
30.08   DEPARTMENTAL RULES.
The Police Chief shall establish such rules, not in conflict with the Code of
Ordinances, and subject to the approval of the Council, as may be necessary for
the operation of the department.
30.09   SUMMONING AID.
Any peace officer making a legal arrest may orally summon as many persons as
the officer reasonably finds necessary to aid the officer in making the arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.17)
30.10   TAKING WEAPONS.
Any person who makes an arrest may take from the person arrested all items that
are capable of causing bodily harm which the arrested person may have within
such person’s control, to be disposed of according to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.18)
30.11   CONTRACT LAW ENFORCEMENT.
In lieu of the appointment of a Police Chief by the Mayor as provided by
Section
30.06, the Council may contract with the County Sheriff or any other qualified
lawful entity to provide law enforcement services within the City and in such
event the Sheriff or such other entity shall have and exercise the powers and
duties of the Police Chief as provided herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 28E.30)
CHAPTER 35
FIRE DEPARTMENT
35.01 Establishment and Purpose 35.09 Constitution
35.02 Organization              35.10 Accidental Injury Insurance
35.03 Approved by Council       35.11 Liability Insurance
35.04 Training                  35.12 Calls Outside Fire District
35.05 Compensation              35.13 Mutual Aid
35.06 Election of Officers      35.14 Authority to Cite Violations
35.07 Duties of Fire Chief      35.15 Emergency Ambulance Service
35.08 Obedience to Fire Chief
 
35.01   ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
A volunteer fire department is hereby established to prevent and extinguish
fires and to protect lives and property against fires, to promote fire
prevention and fire safety, and to answer all emergency calls for which there
is no other established agency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.16)
35.02   ORGANIZATION.
The department consists of the Fire Chief and such other officers and personnel
as may be authorized by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
35.03   APPROVED BY COUNCIL.
No person having otherwise qualified shall be appointed to the department until
such appointment is submitted to and approved by a majority of the Council
members.
35.04   TRAINING.
All members of the department shall meet the minimum training standards
established by the State Fire Marshal and attend and actively participate in
regular or special training drills or programs as directed by the Fire Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100B.2[4])
35.05   COMPENSATION.
Members of the department shall be designated by rank and receive such
compensation as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
35.06   ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
The department shall elect a Fire Chief and such other officers as its
constitution and bylaws may provide, but the election of the Fire Chief shall
be subject to the approval of the Council. In case of absence of the Fire
Chief, the officer next in rank shall be in charge and have and exercise all
the powers of Fire Chief.
35.07   DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
The Fire Chief shall perform all duties required of the Fire Chief by law or
ordinance, including (but not limited to) the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Enforce Laws. Enforce ordinances and laws regulating fire prevention and
the investigation of the cause, origin, and circumstances of fires.
2.   Technical Assistance. Upon request, give advice concerning private fire
alarm systems, fire extinguishing equipment, fire escapes and exits, and
development of fire emergency plans.
3.   Authority at Fires. When in charge of a fire scene, direct an operation as
necessary to extinguish or control a fire, perform a rescue operation,
investigate the existence of a suspected or reported fire, gas leak, or other
hazardous condition, or take any other action deemed necessary in the
reasonable performance of the department’s duties.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
4.   Control of Scenes. Prohibit an individual, vehicle, or vessel from
approaching a fire scene and remove from the scene any object, vehicle, vessel,
or individual that may impede or interfere with the operation of the Fire
Department.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
5.   Authority to Barricade. When in charge of a fire scene, place or erect
ropes, guards, barricades, or other obstructions across a street, alley, right-
of-way, or private property near the location of the fire or emergency so as to
prevent accidents or interference with the firefighting efforts of the Fire
Department, to control the scene until any required investigation is complete,
or to preserve evidence related to the fire or other emergency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.3)
6.   Command. Be charged with the duty of maintaining the efficiency,
discipline, and control of the Fire Department. The members of the Fire
Department shall, at all times, be subject to the direction of the Fire Chief.
7.   Property. Exercise and have full control over the disposition of all fire
apparatus, tools, equipment, and other property used by or belonging to the
Fire Department.
8.   Notification. Whenever death, serious bodily injury, or property damage in
excess of $200,000.00 has occurred as a result of a fire, or if arson is
suspected, notify the State Fire Marshal’s Division immediately. For all other
fires causing an estimated damage of $50.00 or more or emergency responses by
the Fire Department, file a report with the Fire Marshal’s Division within 10
days following the end of the month. The report shall indicate all fire
incidents occurring and state the name of the owners and occupants of the
property at the time of the fire, the value of the property, the estimated
total loss to the property, origin of the fire as determined by investigation,
and other facts, statistics, and circumstances concerning the fire incidents.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.2 and 100.3)
9.   Right of Entry. Have the right, during reasonable hours, to enter any
building or premises within the Fire Chief’s jurisdiction for the purpose of
making such investigation or inspection that under law or ordinance may be
necessary to be made and that is reasonably necessary to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.12)
10.   Recommendation. Make such recommendations to owners, occupants,
caretakers, or managers of buildings necessary to eliminate fire hazards.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.13)
11.   Assist State Fire Marshal. At the request of the State Fire Marshal, and
as provided by law, aid said marshal in the performance of duties by
investigating, preventing, and reporting data pertaining to fires.
12.   Records. Cause to be kept records of the Fire Department personnel,
firefighting equipment, depreciation of all equipment and apparatus, the number
of responses to alarms, their cause, and location, and an analysis of losses by
value, type, and location of buildings.
13.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report of
the status and activities of the department as well as such other reports as
may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
35.08   OBEDIENCE TO FIRE CHIEF.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of the Fire Chief.
35.09   CONSTITUTION.
The department shall adopt a constitution and bylaws as they deem calculated to
accomplish the object contemplated, and such constitution and bylaws and any
change or amendment to such constitution and bylaws before being effective,
must be approved by the Council.
35.10   ACCIDENTAL INJURY INSURANCE.
The Council shall contract to insure the City against liability for worker’s
compensation and against statutory liability for the costs of hospitalization,
nursing, and medical attention for volunteer firefighters injured in the
performance of their duties as firefighters whether within or outside the
corporate limits of the City. All volunteer firefighters shall be covered by
the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 85.2, 85.61, and Sec. 410.18)
35.11   LIABILITY INSURANCE.
The Council shall contract to insure against liability of the City or members
of the department for injuries, death, or property damage arising out of and
resulting from the performance of departmental duties within or outside the
corporate limits of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 670.2 and 517A.1)
35.12   CALLS OUTSIDE FIRE DISTRICT.
The department shall answer calls to fires and other emergencies outside the
Fire District if the Fire Chief determines that such emergency exists and that
such action will not endanger persons and property within the Fire District.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 and 3])
35.13   MUTUAL AID.
Subject to approval by resolution of the Council, the department may enter into
mutual aid agreements with other legally constituted fire departments. Copies
of any such agreements shall be filed with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 and 3])
35.14   AUTHORITY TO CITE VIOLATIONS.
Fire officials acting under the authority of Chapter 10A, Subchapter V, Part 2
of the Code of Iowa, may issue citations in accordance with Chapter 805 of the
Code of Iowa, for violations of Chapter 10A, Subchapter V, Part 2 of the Code
of Iowa or a violation of a local fire safety code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.41)
(Section 35.14 – Ord. 2024-07OR – Oct. 24 Supp.)
35.15   EMERGENCY AMBULANCE SERVICE.
The department is authorized to provide emergency ambulance or rescue services,
and the accidental injury and liability insurance provided for herein shall
include such operation.
CHAPTER 36
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE SPILLS
 
36.01 Purpose                     36.05 Notifications
36.02 Definitions                 36.06 Police Authority
36.03 Cleanup Required            36.07 Liability
36.04 Liability for Cleanup Costs
 
36.01   PURPOSE.
In order to reduce the danger to the public health, safety, and welfare from
the leaks and spills of hazardous substances, these regulations are promulgated
to establish responsibility for the treatment, removal, and cleanup of
hazardous substance spills within the City limits.
36.02   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Cleanup” means actions necessary to contain, collect, control, identify,
analyze, clean up, treat, disperse, remove, or dispose of a hazardous
substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[1])
2.   “Hazardous condition” means any situation involving the actual, imminent,
or probable spillage, leakage, or release of a hazardous substance onto the
land, into a water of the State, or into the atmosphere which creates an
immediate or potential danger to the public health or safety or to the
environment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[4])
3.   “Hazardous substance” means any substance or mixture of substances that
presents a danger to the public health or safety and includes, but is not
limited to, a substance that is toxic, corrosive, or flammable, or that is an
irritant or that generates pressure through decomposition, heat, or other
means. “Hazardous substance” may include any hazardous waste identified or
listed by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency under the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended by the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, or any toxic pollutant listed under
Section 307 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1,
1977, or any hazardous substance designated under Section 311 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1, 1977, or any hazardous
material designated by the Secretary of Transportation under the Hazardous
Materials Transportation Act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[5])
4.   “Responsible person” means a person who at any time produces, handles,
stores, uses, transports, refines, or disposes of a hazardous substance, the
release of which creates a hazardous condition, including bailees, carriers,
and any other person in control of a hazardous substance when a hazardous
condition occurs, whether the person owns the hazardous substance or is
operating under a lease, contract, or other agreement with the legal owner of
the hazardous substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[7])
36.03   CLEANUP REQUIRED.
Whenever a hazardous condition is created by the deposit, injection, dumping,
spilling, leaking, or placing of a hazardous substance, so that the hazardous
substance or a constituent of the hazardous substance may enter the environment
or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including ground
waters, the responsible person shall cause the condition to be remedied by a
cleanup, as defined in the preceding section, as rapidly as feasible to an
acceptable, safe condition. The costs of cleanup shall be borne by the
responsible person. If the responsible person does not cause the cleanup to
begin in a reasonable time in relation to the hazard and circumstances of the
incident, the City may, by an authorized officer, give reasonable notice, based
on the character of the hazardous condition, said notice setting a deadline for
accomplishing the cleanup and stating that the City will proceed to procure
cleanup services and bill the responsible person for all costs associated with
the cleanup if the cleanup is not accomplished within the deadline. In the
event that it is determined that immediate cleanup is necessary as a result of
the present danger to the public health, safety, and welfare, then no notice
shall be required and the City may proceed to procure the cleanup and bill the
responsible person for all costs associated with the cleanup. If the bill for
those services is not paid within 30 days, the City Attorney shall proceed to
obtain payment by all legal means. If the cost of the cleanup is beyond the
capacity of the City to finance it, the authorized officer shall report to the
Council and immediately seek any State or federal funds available for said
cleanup.
36.04   LIABILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS.
The responsible person shall be strictly liable to the City for all of the
following:
1.   The reasonable cleanup costs incurred by the City or the agents of the
City as a result of the failure of the responsible person to clean up a
hazardous substance involved in a hazardous condition.
2.   The reasonable costs incurred by the City or the agents of the City to
evacuate people from the area threatened by a hazardous condition caused by the
person.
3.   The reasonable damages to the City for the injury to, destruction of, or
loss of City property, including parks and roads, resulting from a hazardous
condition caused by that person, including the costs of assessing the injury,
destruction, or loss.
4.   The excessive and extraordinary cost incurred by the City or the agents of
the City in responding at and to the scene of a hazardous condition caused by
that person.
36.05   NOTIFICATIONS.
1.   A person manufacturing, storing, handling, transporting, or disposing of a
hazardous substance shall notify the State Department of Natural Resources and
the County Sheriff of the occurrence of a hazardous condition as soon as
possible but not later than six hours after the onset of the hazardous
condition or discovery of the hazardous condition. The County Sheriff shall
immediately notify the Department of Natural Resources.
2.   Any other person who discovers a hazardous condition shall notify the
County Sheriff, which shall then notify the Department of Natural Resources.
36.06   POLICE AUTHORITY.
If the circumstances reasonably so require, the law enforcement officer or an
authorized representative may:
1.   Evacuate persons from their homes to areas away from the site of a
hazardous condition.
2.   Establish perimeters or other boundaries at or near the site of a
hazardous condition and limit access to cleanup personnel.
No person shall disobey an order of any law enforcement officer issued under
this section.
36.07   LIABILITY.
The City shall not be liable to any person for claims of damages, injuries, or
losses resulting from any hazardous condition, unless the City is the
responsible person as defined in Section
36.02(4).
CHAPTER 40
PUBLIC PEACE
 
40.01 Assault    40.03 Disorderly Conduct
40.02 Harassment 40.04 Failure to Disperse
 
40.01   ASSAULT.
No person shall, without justification, commit any of the following:
1.   Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to cause pain or injury to
another or that is intended to result in physical contact that will be
insulting or offensive to another, coupled with the apparent ability to execute
the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[1])
2.   Threat of Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to place another in
fear of immediate physical contact which will be painful, injurious, insulting,
or offensive, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[2])
An act described in Subsections 1 and 2 shall not be an assault under the
following circumstances: (i) if the person doing any of the enumerated acts,
and such other person, are voluntary participants in a sport, social or other
activity, not in itself criminal, and such act is a reasonably foreseeable
incident of such sport or activity, and does not create an unreasonable risk of
serious injury or breach of the peace; (ii) if the person doing any of the
enumerated acts is employed by a school district or accredited nonpublic
school, or is an area education agency staff member who provides services to a
school or school district, and intervenes in a fight or physical struggle or
other disruptive situation that takes place in the presence of the employee or
staff member performing employment duties in a school building, on school
grounds, or at an official school function, regardless of the location, whether
the fight or physical struggle or other disruptive situation is between
students or other individuals, if the degree and the force of the intervention
is reasonably necessary to restore order and to protect the safety of those
assembled.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1)
40.02   HARASSMENT.
No person shall commit harassment.
1.   A person commits harassment when, with intent to intimidate, annoy, or
alarm another person, the person does any of the following:
   A.   Communicates with another by telephone, telegraph, writing, or via
electronic communication without legitimate purpose and in a manner likely to
cause the other person annoyance or harm.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   B.   Places any simulated explosive or simulated incendiary device in or
near any building, vehicle, airplane, railroad engine or railroad car, or boat
occupied by the other person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   C.   Orders merchandise or services in the name of another, or to be
delivered to another, without such other person’s knowledge or consent.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   D.   Reports or causes to be reported false information to a law enforcement
authority implicating another in some criminal activity, knowing that the
information is false, or reports the alleged occurrence of a criminal act,
knowing the same did not occur.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
2.   A person commits harassment when the person, purposefully and without
legitimate purpose, has personal contact with another person, with the intent
to threaten, intimidate, or alarm that other person. As used in this section,
unless the context otherwise requires, “personal contact” means an encounter in
which two or more people are in visual or physical proximity to each other.
“Personal contact” does not require a physical touching or oral communication,
although it may include these types of contacts.
40.03   DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
No person shall do any of the following:
1.   Fighting. Engage in fighting or violent behavior in any public place or in
or near any lawful assembly of persons, provided that participants in athletic
contests may engage in such conduct that is reasonably related to that sport.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1a])
2.   Noise. Make loud and raucous noise in the vicinity of any residence or
public building which intentionally or recklessly causes unreasonable distress
to the occupants thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1b])
3.   Abusive Language. Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture
that the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent
reaction by another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1c])
4.   Disrupt Lawful Assembly. Without lawful authority or color of authority,
disturb any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by conduct intended to
disrupt the meeting or assembly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1d])
5.   False Report of Catastrophe. By words or action, initiate or circulate a
report or warning of fire, epidemic, or other catastrophe, knowing such report
to be false or such warning to be baseless.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1e])
6.   Disrespect of Flag. Knowingly and publicly use the flag of the United
States in such a manner as to show disrespect for the flag as a symbol of the
United States, with the intent or reasonable expectation that such use will
provoke or encourage another to commit trespass or assault. As used in this
subsection:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1f])
   A.   “Deface” means to intentionally mar the external appearance.
   B.   “Defile” means to intentionally make physically unclean.
   C.   “Flag” means a piece of woven cloth or other material designed to be
flown from a pole or mast.
   D.   “Mutilate” means to intentionally cut up or alter so as to make
imperfect.
   E.   “Show disrespect” means to deface, defile, mutilate, or trample.
   F.   “Trample” means to intentionally tread upon or intentionally cause a
machine, vehicle, or animal to tread upon.
7.   Funeral or Memorial Service. Within 1,000 feet of the building or other
location where a funeral or memorial service is being conducted, or within
1,000 feet of a funeral procession or burial:
   A.   Make loud and raucous noise that causes unreasonable distress to the
persons attending the funeral or memorial service or participating in the
funeral procession.
   B.   Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture that the person
knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent reaction by
another.
   C.   Disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial service, funeral procession,
or burial by conduct intended to disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial
service, funeral procession, or burial.
This subsection applies to conduct within 60 minutes preceding, during, and
within 60 minutes after a funeral, memorial service, funeral procession, or
burial.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5)
40.04   FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
A peace officer may order the participants in a riot or unlawful assembly or
persons in the immediate vicinity of a riot or unlawful assembly to disperse.
No person within hearing distance of such command shall refuse to obey.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.3)
CHAPTER 41
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
41.01 Distributing Dangerous Substances                  41.09 Antenna and
                                                         Radio Wires
41.02 False Reports to or Communications with Public     41.10 Barbed Wire and
Safety Entities                                          Electric Fences
41.03 Providing False Identification Information         41.11 Discharging
                                                         Weapons
41.04 Refusing to Assist Officer                         41.12 Throwing and
                                                         Shooting
41.05 Harassment of Public Officers and Employees        41.13 Urinating and
                                                         Defecating
41.06 Interference with Official Acts                    41.14 Fireworks
41.07 Removal of an Officer’s Communication or Control 41.15 Drug
Device                                                   Paraphernalia
41.08 Abandoned or Unattended Refrigerators              41.16 Failure to
                                                         Assist
 
41.01   DISTRIBUTING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
No person shall distribute samples of any drugs or medicine, or any corrosive,
caustic, poisonous or other injurious substance unless the person delivers such
into the hands of a competent person, or otherwise takes reasonable precautions
that the substance will not be taken by children or animals from the place
where the substance is deposited.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.1)
41.02   FALSE REPORTS TO OR COMMUNICATIONS WITH PUBLIC SAFETY ENTITIES.
No person shall do any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.6)
1.   Report or cause to be reported false information to a fire department, a
law enforcement authority, or other public safety entity, knowing that the
information is false, or report the alleged occurrence of a criminal act
knowing the act did not occur.
2.   Telephone an emergency 911 communications center, knowing that he or she
is not reporting an emergency or otherwise needing emergency information or
assistance.
3.   Knowingly provide false information to a law enforcement officer who
enters the information on a citation.
41.03   PROVIDING FALSE IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION.
No person shall knowingly provide false identification information to anyone
known by the person to be a peace officer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, in the performance of any act that is
within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, emergency
medical care provider, or firefighter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1A)
41.04   REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
Any person who is requested or ordered by any magistrate or peace officer to
render the magistrate or officer assistance in making or attempting to make an
arrest, or to prevent the commission of any criminal act, shall render
assistance as required. No person shall unreasonably and without lawful cause,
refuse or neglect to render assistance when so requested.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.2)
41.05   HARASSMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
No person shall willfully prevent or attempt to prevent any public officer or
employee from performing the officer’s or employee’s duty.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.4)
41.06   INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTS.
No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct anyone known by the person to be a
peace officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider under Chapter 147A of
the Code of Iowa, medical examiner, or firefighter, whether paid or volunteer,
or a person performing bailiff duties pursuant to Section 602.1303[4] of the
Code of Iowa, in the performance of any act that is within the scope of the
lawful duty or authority of that officer, jailer, emergency medical care
provider, medical examiner, or firefighter, or person performing bailiff
duties, or shall knowingly resist or obstruct the service or execution by any
authorized person of any civil or criminal process or order of any court. The
terms “resist” and “obstruct” as used in this section do not include verbal
harassment unless the verbal harassment is accompanied by a present ability and
apparent intention to execute a verbal threat physically.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1)
41.07   REMOVAL OF AN OFFICER’S COMMUNICATION OR CONTROL DEVICE.
No person shall knowingly or intentionally remove or attempt to remove a
communication device or any device used for control from the possession of a
peace officer or correctional officer, when the officer is in the performance
of any act which is within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that
officer and the person knew or should have known the individual to be an
officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.12)
41.08   ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED REFRIGERATORS.
No person shall abandon or otherwise leave unattended any refrigerator, ice
box, or similar container, with doors that may become locked, outside of
buildings and accessible to children, nor shall any person allow any such
refrigerator, ice box, or similar container, to remain outside of buildings on
premises in the person’s possession or control, abandoned or unattended and so
accessible to children.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.3)
41.09   ANTENNA AND RADIO WIRES.
It is unlawful for a person to allow antenna wires, antenna supports, radio
wires, or television wires to exist over any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
public way, public ground, or public building without written consent of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.10   BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
It is unlawful for a person to use barbed wire or electric fences to enclose
land within the City limits without the written consent of the Council unless
such land consists of 10 acres or more and is used as agricultural land.
41.11   DISCHARGING WEAPONS.
1.   It is unlawful for a person to discharge rifles, shotguns, revolvers,
pistols, guns, or other firearms of any kind within the City limits except in
the following shooting areas:
   A.   That portion of the City identified by the Grundy County Conservation
Board as a shooting range, lying within land owned by Grundy County and
administered by the Grundy County Conservation Board.
   B.   That portion of the City identified as the Izaak Walton League shooting
range area.
The Mayor has the authority to issue written permission to discharge firearms
at other places within the City for good cause.
2.   No person shall intentionally discharge a firearm in a reckless manner.
41.12   THROWING AND SHOOTING.
It is unlawful for a person to throw stones, bricks, or missiles of any kind or
to shoot arrows, paintballs, rubber guns, slingshots, air rifles, BB guns, or
other dangerous instruments or toys on or into any street, alley, highway,
sidewalk, public way, public ground, or public building, without written
consent of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.13   URINATING AND DEFECATING.
It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate onto any sidewalk, street,
alley, or other public way, or onto any public or private building, including
but not limited to the wall, floor, hallway, steps, stairway, doorway, or
window thereof, or onto any public or private land.
41.14   FIREWORKS.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.2)
1.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
   A.   “Consumer fireworks” means the following fireworks, as described in
Chapter 3 of the American Pyrotechnics Association (“APA”) Standard 87-1:
      (1)   First-class consumer fireworks:
         a.   Aerial shell kits and reloadable tubes;
         b.   Chasers;
         c.   Helicopters and aerial spinners;
         d.   Firecrackers;
         e.   Mine and shell devices;
         f.   Missile-type rockets;
         g.   Roman candles;
         h.   Sky rockets and bottle rockets;
         i.   Multiple tube devices under this paragraph which are manufactured
in accordance with APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.5.
      (2)   Second-class consumer fireworks:
         a.   Cone fountains;
         b.   Cylindrical fountains;
         c.   Flitter sparklers;
         d.   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices, including multiple tube
ground and hand-held sparkling devices that are manufactured in accordance with
APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.5;
         e.   Ground spinners;
         f.   Illuminating torches;
         g.   Toy smoke devices that are not classified as novelties pursuant
to APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.2;
         h.   Wheels;
         i.   Wire or dipped sparklers that are not classified as novelties
pursuant to APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.2.
   B.   “Display fireworks” includes any explosive composition, or combination
of explosive substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration, or
detonation, and includes fireworks containing any explosive or flammable
compound, or other device containing any explosive substance. “Display
fireworks” does not include novelties or consumer fireworks enumerated in
Chapter 3 of the APA Standard 87-1.
   C.   “Novelties” includes all novelties enumerated in Chapter 3 of the APA
Standard 87-1, and that comply with the labeling regulations promulgated by the
United States Consumer Product Safety Commission.
2.   Display Fireworks. It is unlawful for any person to use or explode any
display fireworks; provided, the City Council may, upon application in writing,
grant a permit for the display of display fireworks by municipalities, fair
associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of individuals
approved by the City when the display fireworks will be handled by a competent
operator, but no such permit shall be required for the display of display
fireworks at the Iowa State Fairgrounds by the Iowa State Fair Board, at
incorporated county fairs, or at district fairs receiving State aid. No permit
shall be granted hereunder unless the operator or sponsoring organization has
filed with the City evidence of insurance in the following amounts:
   A.   Personal Injury:   ……….$250,000.00 per person
   B.   Property Damage:……..$50,000.00
   C.   Total Exposure:   ……….$1,000,000.00
3.   Consumer Fireworks. It is unlawful for any person to use or explode
consumer fireworks within the City.
4.   Novelties. This section does not apply to novelties.
5.   Any person who intends to sell fireworks within the City must inform the
City Clerk or Administrator of the location where the sales are to occur. The
location must comply with Zoning and Fire District Ordinances.
6.   In addition to complying with all other City permitting or registration
standards and approvals, temporary vendors of consumer fireworks shall not
erect a consumer fireworks sales stand, structure, or tent within 25 feet of an
existing building.
7.   Retail vendors of consumer fireworks shall post a sign in plain view of
customers informing customers that the use of fireworks within the City limits
is prohibited by City ordinance, and that a violation is a simple misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not less than $250.00.
8.   A violation of Subsections 6 and 7 of this section is a municipal
infraction.
41.15   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 124.414)
1.   As used in this section “drug paraphernalia” means all equipment, products
or materials of any kind used or attempted to be used in combination with a
controlled substance, except those items used in combination with the lawful
use of a controlled substance, to knowingly or intentionally and primarily do
any of the following:
   A.   Manufacture a controlled substance.
   B.   Inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance.
   C.   Test the strength, effectiveness, or purity of a controlled substance.
   D.   Enhance the effect of a controlled substance.
Drug paraphernalia does not include hypodermic needles or syringes if
manufactured, delivered, sold, or possessed for a lawful purpose.
2.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally manufacture,
deliver, sell, or possess drug paraphernalia.
41.16   FAILURE TO ASSIST.
A person who reasonably believes another person is suffering from a risk of
serious bodily injury or imminent danger of death shall, if the person is able,
attempt to contact local law enforcement or local emergency response
authorities, if doing so does not place the person or other person at risk of
serious bodily injury or imminent danger of death. No person shall without
lawful cause violate the provisions of this section. A person shall not be
required to contact local law enforcement or emergency response authorities if
the person knows or reasonably believes that the other person is not in need of
help or assistance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.12)
CHAPTER 42
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
 
42.01 Trespassing                       42.05 Fraud
42.02 Criminal Mischief                 42.06 Theft
42.03 Defacing Proclamations or Notices 42.07 Unauthorized Computer Access
42.04 Unauthorized Entry                42.08 Other Public Property Offenses
 
42.01   TRESPASSING.
1.   Prohibited. It is unlawful for a person to knowingly trespass upon the
property of another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.8)
2.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[1])
   A.   “Property” includes any land, dwelling, building, conveyance, vehicle,
or other temporary or permanent structure, whether publicly or privately owned.
   B.   “Public utility” is a public utility as defined in Section 476.1 of the
Code of Iowa or an electric transmission line as provided in Chapter 478 of the
Code of Iowa.
   C.   “Public utility property” means any land, dwelling, building,
conveyance, vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure owned, leased,
or operated by a public utility and that is completely enclosed by a physical
barrier of any kind.
   D.   “Railway corporation” means a corporation, company, or person owning,
leasing, or operating any railroad in whole or in part within this State.
   E.   “Railway property” means all tangible real and personal property owned,
leased, or operated by a railway corporation, with the exception of any
administrative building or offices of the railway corporation.
   F.   “Trespass” means one or more of the following acts:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2a])
      (1)   Entering upon or in property without the express permission of the
owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession with the intent to commit a
public offense or to use, remove therefrom, alter, damage, harass, or place
thereon or therein anything animate or inanimate.
      (2)   Entering or remaining upon or in property without justification
after being notified or requested to abstain from entering or to remove or
vacate therefrom by the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or the
agent or employee of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or by
any peace officer, magistrate, or public employee whose duty it is to supervise
the use or maintenance of the property.
      (3)   Entering upon or in property for the purpose or with the effect of
unduly interfering with the lawful use of the property by others.
      (4)   Being upon or in property and wrongfully using, removing therefrom,
altering, damaging, harassing, or placing thereon or therein anything animate
or inanimate, without the implied or actual permission of the owner, lessee, or
person in lawful possession.
      (5)   Entering or remaining upon or in railway property without lawful
authority or without the consent of the railway corporation which owns, leases,
or operates the railway property. This paragraph does not apply to passage over
a railroad right-of-way, other than a track, railroad roadbed, viaduct, bridge,
trestle, or railroad yard, by an unarmed person if the person has not been
notified or requested to abstain from entering onto the right-of-way or to
vacate the right-of-way and the passage over the right-of-way does not
interfere with the operation of the railroad.
      (6)   Entering or remaining upon or in public utility property without
lawful authority or without the consent of the public utility that owns,
leases, or operates the public utility property. This paragraph does not apply
to passage over public utility right-of-way by a person if the person has not
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering onto the right-of-way or to vacate the right-of-way.
3.   Specific Exceptions. “Trespass” does not mean either of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2b])
   A.   Entering upon the property of another for the sole purpose of
retrieving personal property which has accidentally or inadvertently been
thrown, fallen, strayed, or blown onto the property of another, provided that
the person retrieving the property takes the most direct and accessible route
to and from the property to be retrieved, quits the property as quickly as is
possible, and does not unduly interfere with the lawful use of the property.
This paragraph does not apply to public utility property where the person has
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering.
   B.   Entering upon the right-of-way of a public road or highway.
42.02   CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
It is unlawful, for any person who has no right to do so, to intentionally
damage, deface, alter, or destroy property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.03   DEFACING PROCLAMATIONS OR NOTICES.
It is unlawful for a person intentionally to deface, obliterate, tear down, or
destroy in whole or in part, any transcript or extract from or of any law of
the United States or the State, or any proclamation, advertisement, or
notification, set up at any place within the City by authority of the law or by
order of any court, during the time for which the same is to remain set up.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.04   UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.
No unauthorized person shall enter or remain in or upon any public building,
premises, or grounds in violation of any notice posted thereon or when said
building, premises or grounds are closed and not open to the public. When open
to the public, a failure to pay any required admission fee also constitutes an
unauthorized entry.
42.05   FRAUD.
It is unlawful for any person to commit a fraudulent practice as defined in
Section 714.8 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.8)
42.06   THEFT.
It is unlawful for any person to commit theft as defined in Section 714.1 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
42.07   UNAUTHORIZED COMPUTER ACCESS.
It is unlawful for a person to knowingly and without authorization access a
computer, computer system, or computer network.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.6B)
42.08   OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other activities or conditions that are also deemed
to be public property offenses:
1.   
Chapter 105 – Solid Waste Control and Recycling
   A.   Section
105.07 – Littering Prohibited
2.   
Chapter 135 – Street Use and Maintenance
   A.   Section
135.01 – Removal of Warning Devices
   B.   Section
135.02 – Obstructing or Defacing
   C.   Section
135.03 – Placing Debris On
   D.   Section
135.04 – Playing In
   E.   Section
135.05 – Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley
   F.   Section
135.08 – Burning Prohibited
   G.   Section
135.12 – Dumping of Snow
3.   
Chapter 136 – Sidewalk Regulations
   A.   Section
136.11 – Interference with Sidewalk Improvements
   B.   Section
136.15 – Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
   C.   Section
136.16 – Defacing
   D.   Section
136.17 – Debris on Sidewalks
   E.   Section
136.18 – Merchandise Display
   F.   Section
136.19 – Sales Stands
CHAPTER 45
ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION AND INTOXICATION
 
45.01 Persons Under Legal Age 45.03 Open Containers in Motor Vehicles
45.02 Public Consumption or   45.04 Social Host
Intoxication
 
45.01   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
As used in this section, “legal age” means 21 years of age or more.  
1.   A person under legal age shall not purchase or attempt to purchase,
consume, or individually or jointly have alcoholic beverages in their
possession or control; except in the case of any alcoholic beverage given or
dispensed to a person under legal age within a private home and with the
knowledge, presence, and consent of the parent or guardian, for beverage or
medicinal purposes or as administered to the person by either a physician or
dentist for medicinal purposes and except to the extent that a person under
legal age may handle alcoholic beverages during the regular course of the
person’s employment by a liquor control licensee, or wine or beer permittee
under State laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47[2])
2.   A person under legal age shall not misrepresent the person’s age for the
purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic beverage from any
liquor control licensee or wine or beer permittee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[3])
45.02   PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OR INTOXICATION.
1.   As used in this section unless the context otherwise requires:
   A.   “Arrest” means the same as defined in Section 804.5 of the Code of Iowa
and includes taking into custody pursuant to Section 232.19 of the Code of
Iowa.
   B.   “Chemical test” means a test of a person’s blood, breath, or urine to
determine the percentage of alcohol present by a qualified person using devices
and methods approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
   C.   “Peace officer” means the same as defined in Section 801.4 of the Code
of Iowa.
   D.   “School” means a public or private school or that portion of a public
or private school that provides teaching for any grade from kindergarten
through grade twelve.
2.   A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer upon the
public streets or highways. A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor
in any public place, except premises covered by a liquor control license. A
person shall not possess or consume alcoholic liquors, wine, or beer on public
school property or while attending any public or private school-related
function. A person shall not be intoxicated in a public place.
3.   A person shall not simulate intoxication in a public place.
4.   When a peace officer arrests a person on a charge of public intoxication
under this section, the peace officer shall inform the person that the person
may have a chemical test administered at the person’s own expense. If a device
approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety for testing a sample of a
person’s breath to determine the person’s blood alcohol concentration is
available, that is the only test that need be offered the person arrested. In a
prosecution for public intoxication, evidence of the results of a chemical test
performed under this subsection is admissible upon proof of a proper
foundation. The percentage of alcohol present in a person’s blood, breath, or
urine established by the results of a chemical test performed within two hours
after the person’s arrest on a charge of public intoxication is presumed to be
the percentage of alcohol present at the time of arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.46)
45.03   OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
[See Section
62.01(50) and (51) of this Code of Ordinances.]
45.04   SOCIAL HOST.
A person who is the owner or lessee of, or who otherwise has control over,
property that is not a licensed premises shall not knowingly permit any person,
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the person to be under the age of
eighteen, to consume or possess on such property any alcoholic beverage. The
provisions of this Section shall not apply to a landlord or manager of the
property or to a person under legal age who consumes or possesses any alcoholic
beverage in connection with a religious observance, ceremony, or rite.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47)
CHAPTER 46
MINORS
 
46.01 Curfew                 46.03 Contributing to Delinquency
46.02 Cigarettes and Tobacco
 
46.01   CURFEW.
The purpose of this section is to regulate, by the establishment of a curfew,
the hours minors can be or remain upon alleys, streets, other public places,
and places of business and amusement in the City.
1.   Curfew Established. It is unlawful for any minor under the age of 18 years
to be or remain upon any of the streets, alleys, highways, parks, play grounds,
or other public grounds, public places and public buildings, places of
entertainment or amusement, or vacant lots in the City between the hours of 11:
00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following day on days commencing on Sunday,
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, and between the hours of 12:00 a.m.
and 5:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday.
2.   Exceptions. The restrictions provided by this section do not apply to any
minor who is accompanied by a guardian, parent, or other person charged with
the care and custody of such minor, nor shall the restriction apply to any
minor who is traveling between said minor’s home or place of residence and the
place where any approved church, municipal, or school function is being held,
or to a minor who is on an emergency errand or legitimate business directed by
his or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the care and custody
of the minor, or where the presence of said minor in said place or places is
connected with and required by some legitimate business, trade, profession, or
occupation in which said minor is permitted by law to be engaged. These
exceptions do not apply when a minor is playing or unnecessarily loitering in
or upon the enumerated public or private places even though said minor is
accompanied by a parent, guardian, or other person charged with the minor’s
care and custody.
3.   Responsibility of Adults. It is unlawful for any parent, guardian, or
other person charged with the care and custody of any minor to allow or permit
such minor to be in or upon any of the streets, alleys, highways, places of
business or amusement or other public places within the curfew hours set by
Subsection 1, except as provided in Subsection 3. It is unlawful for any
person, firm, or corporation operating a place of business or amusement to
allow or permit any minor to be in or upon any places of business or amusement
operated by them within the curfew hours set by Subsection 1, except as
provided in Subsection 2.
4.   Penalties. Any parents, minor, person or firm operating a place of
business or amusement who violates the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a municipal infraction as set out in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
46.02   CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO.
It is unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to smoke, use, possess,
purchase, or attempt to purchase any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes. Possession of tobacco,
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes
by an individual under 21 years of age shall not constitute a violation of this
section if the individual under 21 years of age possesses the tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes as part
of the person’s employment and said person is employed by a person who holds a
valid permit under Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or who lawfully offers for
sale or sells cigarettes or tobacco products.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2)
46.03   CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY.
It is unlawful for any person to encourage any child under 18 years of age to
commit any act of delinquency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 709A.1)
CHAPTER 47
PARK REGULATIONS
 
47.01 Purpose              47.06 Camping
47.02 Vehicles Regulations 47.07 Strohbehn Memorial Park
47.03 Fires                47.08 Assemblages
47.04 Littering            47.09 Prohibited Acts
47.05 Parks Closed
 
47.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the enjoyment of park facilities
by the general public by establishing rules and regulations governing the use
of park facilities.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12)
47.02   VEHICLES REGULATIONS.
1.   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, no person shall ride or
drive an automobile, motorcycle, moped, mini-bike, go-cart, snowmobile, or
other vehicle in any City park except upon established roadways and parking
areas, and shall not exceed a speed limit of 20 miles per hour at any time or
such lower speed limits as are posted in designated areas. The Park and
Recreation Board may grant special permission, upon written application filed
with the Park and Recreation Board at least seven days prior to the meeting at
which the application will be considered, for restricted use of vehicles on
such established trails within a park as the Park and Recreation Board may
assign. The Park and Recreation Board may require the posting of a bond by
persons or groups to whom permission has been granted in such amount as is
necessary to protect the City against loss of and damage to public property and
to indemnify against public liability. Persons or groups to whom permission is
granted shall ride or drive only on established trails and only on the trails
assigned to them, shall conduct themselves in a lawful manner, and shall abide
by any conditions or restrictions required by the Park and Recreation Board. If
requested in the application, the Park and Recreation Board may waive speed
limit restrictions as to portions of the roadway and the designated trails for
participants in special competitive events. Any use of the trails and roadways
under this section shall be at the participant’s own risk.
2.   No automobiles or other vehicles shall be permitted to stand on the
roadways of any park except in designated parking areas; nor shall any vehicle
be driven contrary to any traffic sign, including direction, stop, yield,
caution, or other proper control devices.
3.   Parking of cars in the parks for purpose of repair, washing, cleaning,
general maintenance, non-park use or during hours when the parks are closed is
prohibited.
47.03   FIRES.
No fires shall be lighted or made in the parks except by permission of the Park
and Recreation Board. This section does not apply to fires in grills provided
by the Park and Recreation Board or brought to the parks by the patron, or
designated bonfire pits constructed by the Park and Recreation Board.
47.04   LITTERING.
No person shall place, deposit, or throw any waste, refuse, litter or foreign
substance in any area or receptacle except those provided for that purpose.
47.05   PARKS CLOSED.
No person, except those camping in designated areas, shall enter or remain
within any park between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. unless special
permission is obtained from the Park and Recreation Board.
47.06   CAMPING.
No person shall camp in any portion of a park except in portions prescribed or
designated by the Park and Recreation Board, and the Park and Recreation Board
may refuse camping privileges or rescind any and all camping privileges for
cause.
47.07   STROHBEHN MEMORIAL PARK.
The planning for and operation of the land dedicated to the City for use as a
public park known as “Strohbehn Memorial Park” shall be under the jurisdiction
of the Park and Recreation Board but subject to the following:
1.   The park shall be maintained as a primitive wildlife preserve with only
limited improvements.
2.   Playground equipment shall not be placed in the park, except that of a
primitive nature.
3.   Existing boundary fences shall be maintained in good condition.
4.   Vehicle barriers shall be maintained in good condition along the roadway
and parking areas.
5.   The Park and Recreation Board shall actively enforce the rules and
restrictions of this section and shall make no rule or regulation inconsistent
therewith.
6.   The Park and Recreation Board shall maintain compliance with all State and
federal requirements of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Program under
which the park was acquired.
7.   The Park and Recreation Board shall cooperate with the Grundy County
Conservation Board and other conservation agencies in coordinating the use and
development of the park with the Grundy County Greenbelt.
47.08   ASSEMBLAGES.
Public meetings (religious, political, or otherwise), including picnic parties
and entertainment for charitable or religious purposes, which will be attended
by more than 50 persons, may be held in a park only after first obtaining
permission of the Park and Recreation Board. A written application shall be
filed with the Park and Recreation Board at least seven days prior to the
meeting at which the application will be considered. Such assemblages shall be
conducted in a lawful and orderly manner and shall occupy such ground or
facilities as may be assigned to or reserved for them. The Park and Recreation
Board may require the posting of a bond by groups using the parks and park
facilities in such amount as is necessary to protect the City against loss of
and damage to public property and to indemnify against public liability.
47.09   PROHIBITED ACTS.
1.   No person shall throw or place any foreign or waste substance in any body
of water in or adjacent to any park. No person shall swim or bathe in any creek
within a park.
2.   No person shall, in any manner, deface, injure, or remove any tree, shrub,
or plant standing or growing in any park, or pick or destroy any flowers or
seeds growing therein.
3.   No person shall disturb, move, damage or interfere with any building,
fence, gate, picnic table, grill, vehicle barrier, sign, or improvement of any
kind made or being made in or about any park, or disturb, injure, or interfere
with birds or animals kept or found therein.
4.   No person shall enter upon portions of any park in disregard of signs or
posted notices forbidding the same.
5.   No person, other than the Park and Recreation Board, shall post, paste,
fasten, paint, or affix any placard, bill, notice, or sign upon any structure,
tree, stone fence or enclosure along or within any park.
6.   No person shall cut or remove any wood, plants, turf, grass, soil, rock,
sand, or gravel from any park unless authorized by the Park and Recreation
Board.
7.   No person shall ride or lead a horse in any park except on public drives
or designated bridle paths.
8.   No person shall hunt or trap in any park. This includes the use of
firearms, air or pellet guns, bow and arrow, trained hawk or falcon, and
harassment of animal and bird life by whatever means.
CHAPTER 50
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
 
50.01 Definition of Nuisance 50.05 Nuisance Abatement
50.02 Nuisances Enumerated   50.06 Abatement of Nuisance by Written Notice
50.03 Other Conditions       50.07 Municipal Infraction Abatement Procedure
50.04 Nuisances Prohibited   50.08 Adult Establishments
 
50.01   DEFINITION OF NUISANCE.
Whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or unreasonably offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is a
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.1)
50.02   NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions that are
deemed to be nuisances in the City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.2)
1.   The erecting, continuing or using of any building or other place for the
exercise of any trade, employment or manufacture which, by occasioning noxious
exhalations, offensive smells or other annoyances, becomes injurious and
dangerous to the health, comfort or property of individuals or the public.
2.   The causing, permitting or allowing of any refuse, solid waste, garbage,
noxious substances, hazardous wastes, junk, or salvage materials to be
collected or to remain in any place. The term “noxious substances,” shall
include, but not be limited to, substances, solid or fluid, which are
offensive, detrimental to health, hurtful or dangerous, including any dead
animal or portion thereof, together with human or animal excrement.
3.   The causing, preventing or allowing any refuse, solid waste, garbage,
noxious substances or hazardous wastes, junk, salvage material, or other
offensive substances to be thrown, left or deposited in or upon any street,
avenue, alley, sidewalk, park, public square, lot, whether vacant or occupied,
or upon any pond or pool of water.
4.   The obstructing or impeding, without legal authority, of the passage of
any navigable river, harbor or collection of water.
5.   Creating, maintaining, causing or allowing to exist any stagnant water
standing on any property, including any container or material kept in such a
condition that water can accumulate and stagnate therein.
6.   The corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure of the water of any
river, stream or pond, or unlawfully diverting the river, stream or pond from
its natural course or state, to the injury or prejudice of others.
7.   Creating, maintaining, causing or allowing to exist any ditch, drain, or
water course which is now or hereafter may be constructed so as to prevent or
unduly interfere with the surface and overflow water drainage from adjacent
lands, or any stormwater detention basin not properly maintained, as determined
by the City engineer.
8.   Facilities for the storage or processing of sewage, such as septic tanks,
cesspools, and drain fields, which have failed or do not function properly, or
which are overflowing, leaking, or emanating odors; or septic tanks, cisterns,
and cesspools which are abandoned or no longer in use, unless properly emptied
and filled with clean fill; or any cesspool or septic tank which does not
comply with the County Department of Health regulations.
9.   The obstructing or encumbering, by fences, buildings, structures, signs,
or otherwise, of the public roads, private ways, streets, alleys, commons,
landing places, or burying grounds.
10.   Any gathering of persons or vehicles upon a public street or sidewalk or
any use of property abutting a public street or sidewalk which obstructs
pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other lawful use of streets or sidewalks,
except as permitted by permit or ordinance.
11.   Houses of ill fame, kept for the purpose of prostitution and lewdness,
gambling houses, or places resorted to by persons using controlled substances,
as defined in I.C.A. § 204.101(6), in violation of law, or houses where
drunkenness, quarreling, fighting or breaches of the peace are carried on or
permitted to the disturbance of others.
12.   Unoccupied buildings or unoccupied portions of buildings which are
unsecured or abandoned.
13.   Billboards, signboards, and advertising signs, whether erected and
constructed on public or private property, which so obstruct and impair the
view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway, boulevard, or
alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render dangerous the use
thereof.
14.   Cotton-bearing cottonwood trees and all other cotton-bearing poplar
trees.
15.   The depositing or storing of inflammable junk, such as old rags, rope,
cordage, rubber, bones, and paper, by dealers in such articles, within the fire
limits of the City, unless it is in a building of fireproof construction.
16.   The depositing or allowing the depositing of any mud, dirt, gravel, or
other debris on any public street, alley, sidewalk, or other public property.
17.   The emission of dense smoke, noxious fumes or fly ash in the City. The
City may provide the necessary rules for inspection, regulation and control.
18.   Dense growth of all weeds, vines, brush, or other vegetation in the City
so as to constitute a health, safety or fire hazard.
19.   Creating, maintaining, causing, or allowing to exist conditions which are
conducive to the harborage or breeding of vermin; or allowing to exist
infestations of vermin, such as rats, mice, skunks, snakes, bats, starlings,
pigeons, wasps, cockroaches, or flies.
20.   Trees infected with Dutch elm or other infectious disease as identified
by the City arborist or park division manager; or any dead, diseased, or
damaged trees or plant materials which may harbor serious insect or disease
pests or disease injurious to other trees or plant materials, or any healthy
tree in such a state of deterioration that any part of such tree is likely to
fall and damage property or cause injury to persons.
21.   Creating, maintaining, causing, or allowing to exist any noxious weeds
described as a nuisance in
Chapter 52 of this Code of Ordinances.
22.   The following items stored in outdoor areas or in partially enclosed
sheds, lean-tos or other structures not totally enclosed by structural walls,
roof, and properly functioning doors: building materials not part of an active
building project authorized by a current City building permit, abandoned,
inoperable vehicles, or junk vehicles (as defined in
Chapter 51) nonregistered or unlicensed vehicles, auto parts, miscellaneous
steel, plastic, rubber, or metal parts or junk, tires, packing boxes, wooden
pallets, tree limbs, brush piles, discarded lumber, not including neatly
stacked and cut fire wood, broken or unused furniture and appliances, any
upholstered or finished furniture intended for indoor usage such as couches,
beds, mattresses, desks, chairs, shelving, or wooden tables, other broken or
unused household furnishings or equipment including carpeting, appliances and
other typical household items intended for indoor usage, plastic tarps, trash
bags containing leaves, debris, garbage or other items, trash and garbage not
properly contained within a trash disposal container or any other discarded or
miscellaneous item or items not normally required in the day to day use of the
exterior area of the property, when stored continuously in excess of 48 hours
on any portion of any property outside of a totally enclosed structure located
on the property.
23.   Any attractive nuisance dangerous to children in the form of abandoned
vehicles, abandoned or broken equipment, including abandoned refrigerators,
hazardous pools, ponds, excavations, materials, including building material,
debris, or neglected machinery.
24.   Real property maintained in such condition as it becomes so defective,
unsightly, or in such condition of deterioration or disrepair that the same
causes substantial depreciation of the property values of the surrounding
properties or is materially detrimental to properties and improvements.
25.   Any violation of the provisions requiring removal of accumulations of ice
and snow set forth in Section
136.03 of this Code of Ordinances.
26.   Any wall, fence or hedge in such condition as to constitute a hazard to
persons or property or to cause depreciation in the value of any adjacent or
nearby property.
27.   Any discarded or unused material on real property that is not consistent
with the condition and visual appearance of surrounding adjacent real
properties. Types of unacceptable materials include those items enumerated in
Subsection 22 and also include dirt and gravel piles, rock piles, incomplete
landscaping projects, eroded soil areas, pits, holes, and excavations.
28.   The causing of the accumulation of building debris or construction
materials, tools, equipment or machinery on any property within the City limits
of the City after the expiration of a building permit as outlined in
Chapter 165 of this Code of Ordinances, the occasioning of which becomes
injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort, or property of individuals or
the public.
29.   Creating, maintaining, causing, or allowing to exist for a continuous
period of more than 30 days, any man-made excavation, hole, or other depression
in the ground in or on any lot or parcel of land in the City of a depth of more
than three feet below the surrounding grade, other than as part of the active
construction of a building or other structure on the lot which will ultimately
close in and completely cover such excavation, hole or depression. Upon a
finding by the court that the owner of the lot or parcel of land has violated
the provisions of this subsection, the lot owner shall be required to fill in
any such excavation, hole or depression and grade the same to a topographic
elevation equal to or level with the surrounding adjacent grade, and seed the
site with grass or similar vegetative ground cover, and take reasonable
measures to ensure the proper germination of the planted vegetation.
30.   On properties being used by an allowable commercial use, any items stored
on the property that are not normally utilized in the daily operation of the
commercial use must be stored in structures totally enclosed by structural
walls, roof, and properly functioning doors.
31.   All structures, both commercial and residential, including detached
accessory structures, on any commercial, residential, agricultural or
industrial property shall be free of significant structural defects. The term
“free from significant structural defect” means:
   A.   The roof and roofing material are of such a nature and condition that
they do not permit water, snow, or ice to penetrate into the structure. Roofing
materials shall be in good condition and of consistent materials and consistent
coloration throughout the roof area.
   B.   Drainage gutters and downspouts are securely attached to the structure
and in proper functioning order.
   C.   All exterior trim and exterior exposed surfaces, including siding
materials, must be sound, in good condition and securely attached to the
structure.
   D.   Exterior walls must be free of holes and made of a consistent material,
such that patches or repairs consisting of dissimilar materials or colors
compared to the prevailing surface material of the exterior walls are not
present.
   E.   The foundation of the structure is sound, capable of supporting the
structure and not deteriorated to the point that failure is judged to be
inevitable, but not necessarily imminent. The foundation shall be plumb and
free from cracks, breaks and holes so as to prevent the entry of animals.
   F.   Windows and doors, including outer screen or storm windows and doors,
must be intact, containing no holes, squarely hung with properly operating
latches or locks so as to be securely closed, and where the windows have intact
glass or normal window material that allows the entry of light with no holes in
said window surface areas.
   G.   All points of egress and ingress into and out of the structure must be
of a secure and safe design and made of standard building materials and must
also provide clear and easy access via properly installed steps, porches,
entryway landings and hand rails that are intact, with no protruding or loose
boards or surface materials causing a hazard, and which provide ready access to
all points of entry to the structure.
   H.   Exterior wall surfaces are properly painted or maintained with
appropriate exterior wall materials, including wood, vinyl, steel or metal
siding materials, stucco or exterior insulation finish system (EIFS) materials,
brick, or similar masonry materials, that are in all cases intact, not in a
condition of deterioration, are of uniform coloration and are not patched with
dissimilar materials. Plastic wrap material shall not be considered to be an
acceptable siding material. No flaking or chipped paint or outer loose material
dominates or detracts from the exterior appearance of the structure.
   I.   All fencing, including gates, shall be maintained in good condition,
free from damage, breaks, holes, or missing structural members. All fencing
shall be of consistent materials and coloration.
   J.   Detached accessory structures, including garages and storage sheds,
must conform to the standards outlined above. In addition, all doors and
windows must be of functional design and materials and in proper working order.
No plastic wrap material or tarps shall be used to substitute for doorways or
windows.
   K.   Reconstruction and repair: Materials and practices used in the
reconstruction/repair of any building structure, whether of roofing materials,
siding materials, foundation, walls, windows, doorways, entryways, or detached
accessory structures shall be of standard quality and appearance, consistent
with currently applicable International Building Code requirements and
consistent with the appearance and character of the structure under repair and
consistent with other properties in the immediate vicinity of the premises.
   L.   Vacant structures: All vacant structures shall comply with the above-
cited maintenance provisions with the exception that windows and doors may be
secured with boards or other materials intended to provide security and
protection to the structure. All vandalized portions of the structure must be
promptly repaired including repainting of areas that are defaced with paint or
graffiti.
32.   All real property defaced by graffiti vandalism which is visible to the
public view.
33.   Any hazardous thing or condition on property which may contribute to
injury of any person present on the property, including, but not limited to,
open holes, open foundations, open wells, or dangerous trees or limbs.
34.   Anything or condition on property creating a fire hazard, as determined
by the Fire Chief.
35.   Anything or condition on property creating an imminent threat to human
health or in violation of any health or sanitation law.
36.   Any object or structure hereafter erected within 1000 feet of the limits
of any municipal or regularly established airport or landing place, which may
endanger or obstruct aerial navigation including take-off and landing, unless
such object or structure constitutes a proper use or enjoyment of the land on
which the same is located.
50.03   OTHER CONDITIONS.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other conditions that are deemed to be nuisances:
1.   Junk and Junk Vehicles (See
Chapter 51)
2.   Grass and Weeds (See
Chapter 52)
3.   Storage and Disposal of Solid Waste (See
Chapter 105)
4.   Dangerous Buildings (See
Chapter 145)
5.   Trees (See
Chapter 151)
50.04   NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited, and a nuisance, public
or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in this chapter or State
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.3)
50.05   NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
Whenever any authorized municipal officer finds that a nuisance exists, such
officer has the authority to determine on a case-by-case basis whether to
utilize the nuisance abatement procedure described in Section
50.06 or the municipal infraction procedure referred to in Section
50.07. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
50.06   ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY WRITTEN NOTICE.
Any nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in
this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
1.   Contents of Notice to Property Owner. The notice to abate shall contain: †
3   
   A.   Description of Nuisance. A description of what constitutes the
nuisance.
   B.   Location of Nuisance. The location of the nuisance.
   C.   Acts Necessary to Abate. A statement of the act or acts necessary to
abate the nuisance.
   D.   Reasonable Time. A reasonable time within which to complete the
abatement.
   E.   Assessment of City Costs. A statement that if the nuisance or condition
is not abated as directed and no request for hearing is made within the time
prescribed, the City will abate it and assess the costs against the property
owner.
2.   Method of Service. The notice may be in the form of an ordinance or sent
by certified mail to the property owner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
3.   Request for Hearing. Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a
hearing with the Council as to whether a nuisance exists. A request for a
hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the Clerk within the time
stated in the notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that a nuisance
exists and it must be abated as ordered. The hearing will be before the Council
at a time and place fixed by the Council. The findings of the Council shall be
conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered abated
within a reasonable time under the circumstances.
4.   Abatement in Emergency. If it is determined that an emergency exists by
reason of the continuing maintenance of the nuisance or condition, the City may
perform any action that may be required under this chapter without prior
notice. The City shall assess the costs as provided in Subsection 6 of this
section after notice to the property owner under the applicable provisions of
Subsections 1 and 2, and the hearing as provided in Subsection 3.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
5.   Abatement by City. If the person notified to abate a nuisance or condition
neglects or fails to abate as directed, the City may perform the required
action to abate, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred. The
itemized expense account shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall pay such
expenses on behalf of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
6.   Collection of Costs. The Clerk shall send a statement of the total expense
incurred by certified mail to the property owner who has failed to abide by the
notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has not been paid
within one month, the Clerk shall certify the costs to the County Treasurer and
such costs shall then be collected with, and in the same manner as, general
property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
7.   Installment Payment of Cost of Abatement. If the amount expended to abate
the nuisance or condition exceeds $500.00, the City may permit the assessment
to be paid in up to 10 annual installments, to be paid in the same manner and
with the same interest rates provided for assessments against benefited
property under State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.13)
8.   Failure to Abate. Any person causing or maintaining a nuisance who shall
fail or refuse to abate or remove the same within the reasonable time required
and specified in the notice to abate is in violation of this Code of
Ordinances.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: A suggested form of notice for the abatement of nuisances is
  included in the Appendix of this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use
  of this administrative abatement procedure, particularly where cost of abatement
3 is more than minimal or where there is doubt as to whether or not a nuisance does
  in fact exist. If compliance is not secured following notice and hearings, we
  recommend you review the situation with your attorney before proceeding with
  abatement and assessment of costs. Your attorney may recommend proceedings in
  court under Chapter 657 of the Code of Iowa rather than this procedure.
50.07   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
In lieu of the abatement procedures set forth in Section
50.06, the requirements of this chapter may be enforced under the procedures
applicable to municipal infractions as set forth in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
50.08   ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS.
1.   As used in this section, “adult establishment” means any business that
provides nude or topless dancing or operates any other adult-oriented business.
2.   A public safety nuisance exists when it is established by clear and
convincing evidence that an owner, manager, employee, contemporaneous patron,
or guest of an adult establishment commits any of the following acts either on
the premises or in any parking lots or areas, including but not limited to
public rights-of-way, adjacent to the premises:
   A.   Unlawfully discharges a firearm or uses an offensive weapon, as defined
in Section 724.1 of the Code of Iowa, regardless of whether it inflicts injury
or death.
   B.   Assaults another person with a dangerous weapon as defined in Section
702.7 of the Code of Iowa resulting in injury or death.
   C.   Engages in a riot as defined in Section 723.1 of the Code of Iowa on
three or more dates within a 12-month period to which the police respond and
disperse a crowd. The participants need not be the same persons for each
incident.
3.   When the City Attorney believes a serious threat to the public safety
exists, the City Attorney or any other attorney on behalf of the City Attorney,
may file a suit in equity in the district court without bond seeking abatement
of the public safety nuisance arising from an adult establishment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.12)
(Section 50.08 – Ord. 2024-04OR – Oct. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 51
JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES
 
51.01 Definitions                       51.04 Exceptions
51.02 Junk and Junk Vehicles Prohibited 51.05 Notice to Abate
51.03 Junk and Junk Vehicles a Nuisance
 
51.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other non-
ferrous metal; old or discarded rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste or used lumber, or salvaged wood; dismantled vehicles, machinery
and appliances or parts of such vehicles, machinery, or appliances; iron,
steel, or other old or scrap ferrous materials; old or discarded glass,
tinware, plastic, or old or discarded household goods or hardware. Neatly
stacked firewood located on a side yard or a rear yard is not considered junk.
2.   “Junk vehicle” means any vehicle stored within the corporate limits of the
City which, because of any one of the following characteristics, constitutes a
threat to the public health and safety:
   A.   Unlicensed. Any vehicle which is not licensed for the current year as
provided by law.
   B.   Broken Glass. Any vehicle with a broken or cracked windshield, window,
headlight or tail light, or any other cracked or broken glass.
   C.   Broken, Loose, or Missing Part. Any vehicle with a broken, loose, or
missing fender, door, bumper, hood, steering wheel or trunk lid.
   D.   Habitat for Nuisance Animals or Insects. Any vehicle that has become
the habitat for rats, mice, snakes, or any other vermin or insects.
   E.   Flammable Fuel. Any vehicle that contains gasoline or any other
flammable fuel.
   F.   Inoperable. Any motor vehicle that lacks an engine or two or more
wheels or other structural parts, rendering said motor vehicle totally
inoperable, or that cannot be moved under its own power or has not been used as
an operating vehicle for a period of 30 days or more.
   G.   Defective or Obsolete Condition. Any other vehicle that, because of its
defective or obsolete condition, in any other way constitutes a threat to the
public health and safety.
3.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which a person or property is
or may be transported or drawn upon a highway or street, except devices moved
by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and
includes without limitation a motor vehicle, automobile, truck, motorcycle,
tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery, or any combination thereof.
51.02   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any person to store, accumulate, or allow to remain on any
private property within the corporate limits of the City any junk or junk
vehicle.
51.03   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES A NUISANCE.
It is hereby declared that any junk or junk vehicle located upon private
property, unless excepted by Section
51.04, constitutes a threat to the health and safety of the citizens and is a
nuisance within the meaning of Section 657.1 of the Code of Iowa. If any junk
or junk vehicle is kept upon private property in violation hereof, the owner of
or person occupying the property upon which it is located shall be prima facie
liable for said violation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
51.04   EXCEPTIONS.
The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any junk or a junk vehicle
stored within:
1.   Structure. A garage or other enclosed structure; or
2.   Salvage Yard. An auto salvage yard or junk yard lawfully operated within
the City.
51.05   NOTICE TO ABATE.
Upon discovery of any junk or junk vehicle located upon private property in
violation of Section
51.03, the City shall within five days initiate abatement procedures as
outlined in
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
CHAPTER 52
GRASS AND WEEDS
 
52.01 Purpose                                 52.06 Notice
52.02 Definitions                             52.07 Failure to Cut
52.03 Cutting Specifications and Standards of 52.08 Additional Violation
Practice
52.04 Uniform Height Specifications           52.09 Exception
52.05 Violation
 
52.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to beautify and preserve the appearance of the
City by requiring property owners and occupants to maintain grass lawns at a
uniform height within the boundaries of their property and on abutting street
right-of-way in order to prevent unsightly, offensive, or nuisance conditions.
52.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Curb,” “curb line,” or “curbing” means the outer boundaries of a street
at the edge of that portion of the street usually traveled by vehicular
traffic.
2.   “Cut,” or “mow” means to mechanically maintain the growth of grass or
weeds at a uniform height.
3.   “Owner” means a person owning private property in the City and any person
occupying private property in the City.
4.   “Parking” means that part of a street in the City not covered by a
sidewalk and lying between the lot line or property line and the curb line; or
on unpaved streets, that part of the street lying between the lot line or
property line and that portion of the street usually traveled by vehicular
traffic.
52.03   CUTTING SPECIFICATIONS AND STANDARDS OF PRACTICE.
1.   Every owner shall cut, mow, and maintain all grass and weeds upon the
owner’s property and adjacent to the curb line or outer boundary of any street,
which includes the parking area abutting the owner’s property, to a uniform
height as defined in Section
52.04.
2.   Every owner shall cut, mow and maintain grass and weeds adjacent to the
curb line, including the parking area abutting the owner’s property, in such a
manner so as to be in conformity with and at an even height with all other
grass or weeds growing on the remainder of the owner’s property.
52.04   UNIFORM HEIGHT SPECIFICATIONS.
Grass or weeds shall be cut, mowed and maintained so as not to exceed the
following height specifications:
1.   Developed Residential Areas – not to exceed six inches.
2.   Undeveloped Residential Areas – not to exceed eight inches.
3.   Business and Industrial Areas – not to exceed six inches.
Grass and weeds which are allowed to grow in excess of the above specified
limitations are deemed to be violations of this chapter.
52.05   VIOLATION.
Upon a determination, by visual observation and measurement, that a violation
of this chapter has occurred the City will send written notice by certified
mail to the landowner informing said owner of the problem and the action that
is to be taken. Notice shall be deemed given when mailed.
52.06   NOTICE.
The notice will set forth that the property owner has five days from the date
of the notice to have the grass and weeds cut so that the height conforms with
this chapter. The notice will set forth the address of the property in question
and will instruct the landowner that this notice constitutes notice for the
balance of the summer and that further action will be taken by the City to
remedy the problem if it occurs again on the same property without additional
written notice being given.
52.07   FAILURE TO CUT.
If any such owner, who has been sent notice, fails to cut or mow the grass or
weeds on said owner’s property as set forth in the notice so that it conforms
with this chapter within the time period set forth in the notice, the City
Administrator will instruct the designated independent contractor to mow the
grass or weeds so that the property conforms with this chapter. The cost of
this action will be assessed against the property. The fee for this service
will be set by resolution.
52.08   ADDITIONAL VIOLATION.
Any landowner who violates this chapter will be given one notice per summer and
the City will be authorized to respond to additional violations without
additional written notice being given.
52.09   EXCEPTION.
This chapter pertains to all residential, commercial and industrial land within
the City limits, but excludes agricultural land within the City.
CHAPTER 55
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND CONTROL
55.01 Definitions                  55.09 Rabies Vaccination
55.02 Animal Neglect               55.10 Owner’s Duty
55.03 Livestock Neglect            55.11 Confinement
55.04 Abandonment of Cats and Dogs 55.12 At Large: Impoundment
55.05 Livestock                    55.13 Disposition of Animals
55.06 At Large Prohibited          55.14 Pet Awards Prohibited
55.07 Damage or Interference       55.15 Tampering With A Rabies Vaccination
                                   Tag
55.08 Annoyance or Disturbance     55.16 Tampering With An Electronic Handling
                                   Device
 
55.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
1.   “Advertise” means to present a commercial message in any medium, including
(but not limited to) print, radio, television, sign, display, label, tag, or
articulation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
2.   “Animal” means a nonhuman vertebrate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.1)
3.   “Animal shelter” means a facility which is used to house or contain dogs
or cats, or both, and which is owned, operated, or maintained by an
incorporated humane society, animal welfare society, society for the prevention
of cruelty to animals, or other nonprofit organization devoted to the welfare,
protection, and humane treatment of such animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
4.   “At large” means off the premises of the owner and not under the control
of a competent person, restrained within a motor vehicle, or housed in a
veterinary hospital or kennel.
5.   “Business” means any enterprise relating to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   A.   The sale or offer for sale of goods or services.
   B.   A recruitment for employment or membership in an organization.
   C.   A solicitation to make an investment.
   D.   An amusement or entertainment activity.
6.   “Commercial establishment” means an animal shelter, boarding kennel,
commercial breeder, commercial kennel, dealer, pet shop, pound, public auction,
or research facility.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
7.   “Fair” means any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   A.   The annual fair and exposition held by the Iowa State Fair Board
pursuant to Chapter 173 of the Code of Iowa or any fair event conducted by a
fair under the provisions of Chapter 174 of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   An exhibition of agricultural or manufactured products.
   C.   An event for operation of amusement rides or devices or concession
booths.
8.   “Game” means a “game of chance” or “game of skill” as defined in Section
99B.1 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
9.   “Injury” means an animal’s disfigurement; the impairment of an animal’s
health; or an impairment to the functioning of an animal’s limb or organ, or
the loss of an animal’s limb or organ.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
10.   “Livestock” means an animal belonging to the bovine, caprine, equine,
ovine or porcine species, ostriches, rheas, and emus; farm deer (as defined in
Section 170.1 of the Code of Iowa); or poultry.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.1)
11.   “Owner” means any person owning, keeping, sheltering, or harboring an
animal.
12.   “Pet” means a living dog, cat, or an animal normally maintained in a
small tank or cage in or near a residence, including but not limited to a
rabbit, gerbil, hamster, mouse, parrot, canary, mynah, finch, tropical fish,
goldfish, snake, turtle, gecko, or iguana.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
13.   “Pound” means a facility for the prevention of cruelty to animals
operated by the State, a municipal corporation, or other political subdivision
of the State for the purpose of impounding or harboring seized stray, homeless,
abandoned, or unwanted dogs, cats, or other animals; or a facility operated for
such a purpose under a contract with any municipal corporation or incorporated
society.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
14.   “Research facility” means any school or college of medicine, veterinary
medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, or osteopathic medicine, or hospital, diagnostic
or research laboratories, or other educational or scientific establishment
situated in the State concerned with the investigation of, or instruction
concerning the structure or function of living organisms, the cause,
prevention, control, or cure of diseases or abnormal conditions of human beings
or animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
15.   “Veterinarian” means a veterinarian licensed pursuant to Chapter 169 of
the Code of Iowa who practices veterinary medicine in the State.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
55.02   ANIMAL NEGLECT.
1.   It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of an animal and
confines that animal to fail to provide the animal with any of the following
conditions for the animal’s welfare:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.3)
   A.   Access to food in an amount and quality reasonably sufficient to
satisfy the animal’s basic nutrition level to the extent that the animal’s
health or life is endangered.
   B.   Access to a supply of potable water in an amount reasonably sufficient
to satisfy the animal’s basic hydration level to the extent that the animal’s
health or life is endangered.  Access to snow or ice does not satisfy this
requirement.
   C.   Sanitary conditions free from excessive animal waste or the
overcrowding of animals to the extent that the animal’s health or life is
endangered.
   D.   Ventilated shelter reasonably sufficient to provide adequate protection
from the elements and weather conditions suitable for the age, species, and
physical condition of the animal so as to maintain the animal in a state of
good health to the extent that the animal’s health or life is endangered. The
shelter must protect the animal from wind, rain, snow, or sun and have adequate
bedding to provide reasonable protection against cold and dampness. A shelter
may include a residence, garage, barn, shed, or doghouse.
   E.   Grooming, to the extent it is reasonably necessary to prevent adverse
health effects or suffering.
   F.   Veterinary care deemed necessary by a reasonably prudent person to
relieve an animal’s distress from any of the following:
      (1)   A condition caused by failing to provide for the animal’s welfare
as described in this section.
      (2)   An injury or illness suffered by the animal causing the animal to
suffer prolonged pain and suffering.
2.   This section does not apply to any of the following:
   A.   A person operating a commercial establishment under a valid
authorization issued or renewed under Section 162.2A of the Code of Iowa, or a
person acting under the direction or supervision of that person, if all of the
following apply:
      (1)   The animal, as described in Subsection 1, was maintained as part of
the commercial establishment’s operation.
      (2)   In providing conditions for the welfare of the animal, as described
in Subsection 1, the person complied with the standard of care requirements
provided in Section 162.10A[1] of the Code of Iowa, including any applicable
rules adopted by the Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship applying
to: (i) a State licensee or registrant operating pursuant to Section 162.10A
[2a] or [2b] of the Code of Iowa; or (ii) a permittee operating pursuant to
Section 162.10A[2c] of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   A research facility if the research facility has been issued or renewed
a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship
pursuant to Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa, and performs functions within the
scope of accepted practices and disciplines associated with the research
facility.
55.03   LIVESTOCK NEGLECT.
It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines livestock in any place to
fail to provide the livestock with care consistent with customary animal
husbandry practices, or to deprive the livestock of necessary sustenance, or to
injure or destroy livestock by any means that causes pain or suffering in a
manner inconsistent with customary animal husbandry practices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.2)
55.04   ABANDONMENT OF CATS AND DOGS.
It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of a cat or dog to
relinquish all rights in and duties to care for the cat or dog. This section
does not apply to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.8)
1.   The delivery of a cat or dog to another person who will accept ownership
and custody of the cat or dog.
2.   The delivery of a cat or dog to an animal shelter or that has been issued
or renewed a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and Land
Stewardship under Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa.
3.   A person who relinquishes custody of a cat at a location in which the
person does not hold a legal or equitable interest, if previously the person
had taken custody of the cat at the same location and provided for the cat’s
sterilization by a veterinarian.
55.05   LIVESTOCK.
It is unlawful for a person to keep livestock within the City except by written
consent of the Council or except in compliance with the City’s zoning
regulations.
55.06   AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any owner to allow an animal to run at large within the
corporate limits of the City.
55.07   DAMAGE OR INTERFERENCE.
It is unlawful for the owner of an animal to allow or permit such animal to
pass upon the premises of another thereby causing damage to, or interference
with, the premises.
55.08   ANNOYANCE OR DISTURBANCE.
It is unlawful for the owner of a dog to allow or permit such dog to cause
serious annoyance or disturbance to any person by frequent and habitual
howling, yelping, barking, or otherwise, or by running after or chasing
persons, bicycles, automobiles, or other vehicles.
55.09   RABIES VACCINATION.
Every owner of a dog shall obtain a rabies vaccination for such animal. It is
unlawful for any person to own or have a dog in said person’s possession, six
months of age or over, which has not been vaccinated against rabies. Dogs kept
in State or federally licensed kennels and not allowed to run at large are not
subject to these vaccination requirements.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.33)
55.10   OWNER’S DUTY.
It is the duty of the owner of any dog, cat, or other animal that has bitten or
attacked a person or any person having knowledge of such bite or attack to
report this act to a local health or law enforcement official. It is the duty
of physicians and veterinarians to report to the local board of health the
existence of any animal known or suspected to be suffering from rabies.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.38)
55.11   CONFINEMENT.
If a local board of health receives information that an animal has bitten a
person or that a dog or animal is suspected of having rabies, the board shall
order the owner to confine such animal in the manner it directs. If the owner
fails to confine such animal in the manner directed, the animal shall be
apprehended and impounded by such board, and after 10 days the board may
humanely destroy the animal. If such animal is returned to its owner, the owner
shall pay the cost of impoundment. This section does not apply if a police
service dog or a horse used by a law enforcement agency and acting in the
performance of its duties has bitten a person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.39)
55.12   AT LARGE: IMPOUNDMENT.
Animals found at large in violation of this chapter shall be seized and
impounded at the impoundment facilities utilized by the City, or at the
discretion of the peace officer, the owner may be served a summons to appear
before a proper court to answer charges made thereunder.
55.13   DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
When an animal has been apprehended and impounded, written notice shall be
provided to the owner within two days after impoundment, if the owner’s name
and current address can reasonably be determined by accessing a tag or other
device that is on or part of the animal. Impounded animals may be recovered by
the owner upon payment of impounding costs established by the impoundment
facility, and if an unvaccinated dog, by having it immediately vaccinated. If
the owner fails to redeem the animal within seven days from the date that the
notice is mailed, or if the owner cannot be located within seven days, the
animal shall be disposed of in accordance with law or destroyed by euthanasia.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.37, 351.41)
55.14   PET AWARDS PROHIBITED.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 717E)
1.   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to award a pet or advertise
that a pet may be awarded as any of the following:
   A.   A prize for participating in a game.
   B.   A prize for participating in a fair.
   C.   An inducement or condition for visiting a place of business or
attending an event sponsored by a business.
   D.   An inducement or condition for executing a contract that includes
provisions unrelated to the ownership, care, or disposition of the pet.
2.   Exceptions. This section does not apply to any of the following:
   A.   A pet shop licensed pursuant to Section 162.5 of the Code of Iowa if
the award of a pet is provided in connection with the sale of a pet on the
premises of the pet shop.
   B.   Youth programs associated with 4-H Clubs; Future Farmers of America;
the Izaak Walton League of America; or organizations associated with outdoor
recreation, hunting, or fishing, including but not limited to the Iowa
Sportsmen’s Federation.
55.15   TAMPERING WITH A RABIES VACCINATION TAG.
It is unlawful to tamper with a rabies vaccination tag.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.45)
1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with a rabies vaccination tag if
all of the following apply:
   A.   The person knowingly removes, damages, or destroys a rabies vaccination
tag as described in Section 351.35 of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   The rabies vaccination tag is attached to a collar worn by a dog,
including as provided in Sections 351.25 and 351.26 of the Code of Iowa.
2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
   A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized to
take action by the owner.
   B.   A peace officer.
   C.   A veterinarian.
   D.   An animal shelter or pound.
55.16   TAMPERING WITH AN ELECTRONIC HANDLING DEVICE.
It is unlawful to tamper with an electronic handling device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.46)
1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with an electronic handling
device if all of the following apply:
   A.   The person knowingly removes, disables, or destroys an electronic
device designed and used to maintain custody or control of the dog or modify
the dog’s behavior.
   B.   The electronic device is attached to or worn by the dog or attached to
an item worn by the dog, including (but not limited to) a collar, harness, or
vest.
2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
   A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized to
take action by the owner.
   B.   A peace officer.
   C.   A veterinarian.
   D.   An animal shelter or pound.
CHAPTER 56
DANGEROUS ANIMALS
 
56.01 Definitions                   56.07 Fees
56.02 Impoundment                   56.08 Harboring Prohibited
56.03 Determination                 56.09 Further Proceedings
56.04 Potentially Dangerous Animals 56.10 Not Exclusive Remedy
56.05 Dangerous Animals             56.11 Exception
56.06 Liability Insurance
 
56.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Animal” means dogs, cats, horses, birds, including fowl and poultry, and/
or other domesticated birds or animals, which are harbored, fed or kept by any
person or group of persons.
2.   “Dangerous animal” means:
   A.   Any animal that inflicts a bite upon or causes injury to a human or
domestic animal either on public or private property.
   B.   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, to cause injury, or otherwise to threaten the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
   C.   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
fighting or any animal trained for fighting, or any animal which has been
trained for or has participated in fighting.
3.   “Potentially dangerous animal” means any animal that chases or approaches
a person upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public grounds in a menacing
fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
56.02   IMPOUNDMENT.
In the event that a peace officer has cause to believe that the animal in
question is a dangerous or potentially dangerous animal and may pose a threat
of serious harm to human beings or to other domestic animals, the peace officer
may seize and impound the animal pending hearing. As an alternative to
impoundment, the peace officer may, in his or her discretion, leave the animal
in the custody of its owner or keeper, upon receipt of the owner or keeper’s
written agreement to keep the animal in a secure enclosure until such time as a
determination is reached and a final disposition made under this chapter.
56.03   DETERMINATION.
1.   In the event that a peace officer has cause to believe that an animal is a
dangerous or potentially dangerous animal under this chapter, upon notification
of the same to the City Administrator, the City Administrator shall be
empowered to convene a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not
the animal in question should be declared a dangerous animal or potentially
dangerous animal and, within the discretion allowed under this chapter, what
disposition should be made of the animal.
2.   The City Administrator shall conduct or cause to be conducted an
investigation and shall notify the owner or keeper of the animal, if known,
that a hearing will be held, at which time the owner or keeper may have the
opportunity to present evidence of why the animal should not be declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous. The hearing shall be held promptly within
no less than five or more than 10 days after service of notice upon the owner
or keeper of the animal. The hearing shall be informal and shall be open to the
public.
3.   After the hearing, the owner or keeper of the animal, if known, shall be
notified in writing of the determination. If a determination is made that the
animal is a dangerous animal or potentially dangerous animal, the owner or
keeper shall comply with the requirements of this chapter and the requirements
imposed by the peace officer hereunder, according to a schedule established by
the peace officer, but in no event more than 30 days from the date of the
determination.
56.04   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
If the City Administrator determines that an animal is a potentially dangerous
animal under this chapter, the City Administrator shall enforce the following:
1.   Microchip Implantation. All potentially dangerous animals shall be
implanted with a microchip for identification purposes. All costs related to
purchase and implantation of the microchip shall be borne by the owner of the
potentially dangerous animal. The name of the microchip manufacturer and
identification number of the microchip must be provided to the City. If the
microchip is not implanted by the owner, the City may have a microchip
implanted in the potentially dangerous animal at the owner’s expense. Upon
request, the owner or custodian of a potentially dangerous animal must make the
animal available to the City for an inspection to determine whether a microchip
has been implanted.
2.   Sterilization.  The City may require a potentially dangerous animal to be
sterilized at the owner’s expense within 14 days of the date the animal is
declared potentially dangerous. If the owner does not have the animal
sterilized, the City may have the animal sterilized at the owner’s expense.
Upon request, the owner or custodian of a potentially dangerous animal must
make the animal available to the City for an inspection to determine whether
the animal has been sterilized.
3.   Removal of Potentially Dangerous Animal Classification. An animal
determined to be a potentially dangerous animal may be evaluated by a
professional animal behaviorist. The owner may provide to the City a report by
such animal behaviorist. If the report states that the animal has been
rehabilitated, the animal shall no longer be classified as potentially
dangerous and shall no longer be subject to the requirements of this chapter.
56.05   DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
If the City Administrator determines that an animal is a dangerous animal under
this chapter, the City Administrator shall enforce the following:
1.   Registration. Any person who has an animal that has been determined to be
a dangerous animal pursuant to this chapter must register the animal as a
dangerous animal with the City within 14 days of receiving notice of the
dangerous animal declaration.
   A.   The owner shall also make the dangerous animal available to be
photographed by the City for identification purposes at a time and place
specified by the City.
   B.   The registration of the dangerous animal must be renewed annually with
the City until the animal is deceased or is determined to be no longer
dangerous. The owner of the dangerous animal must notify the City in writing of
the death of the animal or its transfer to a residence outside of the City
within 30 days of the animal’s death or transfer. If requested by the City, the
owner must execute an affidavit under oath setting forth the circumstances of
the animal’s death and disposition or the complete name, address, and telephone
number of the person to whom the animal was transferred.
2.   Keeping of Dangerous Animals.
   A.   Confinement. A dangerous animal must be securely confined indoors or
confined in a secure outdoor enclosure suitably sized for the animal. An
enclosure is secure within the meaning of this subsection if it is constructed
of heavy gauge steel mesh or other suitable material and contains four sides
and a roof, with the bottom of all sides fastened along their perimeter to a
slab floor of concrete or other suitable material. In cases where no floor is
provided, the sides of the enclosure must be embedded into the ground at least
one foot. When the animal is confined in the enclosure, all access points of
the enclosure must be locked. A peace officer may seize a dangerous animal that
is unconfined.
   B.   Restraint. If the dangerous animal is outside of the outdoor enclosure,
it must be securely muzzled and restrained with a chain not exceeding three
feet in length, and having a tensile strength sufficient to restrain it. The
animal’
   C.   Sterilization. The City may require a dangerous animal to be sterilized
at the owner’s expense within 14 days of the date the animal is declared
dangerous. If the owner does not have the animal sterilized, the City may have
the animal sterilized at the owner’s expense. Upon request, the owner or
custodian of a dangerous animal must make the animal available to the City for
an inspection to determine whether the animal has been sterilized.
   D.   Microchip Implantation. All animals that are determined to be dangerous
shall be implanted with a microchip for identification purposes. All costs
related to purchase and implantation of the microchip shall be borne by the
owner of the animal. The name of the microchip manufacturer and identification
number of the microchip must be provided to the City. If the microchip is not
implanted by the owner, the City may have a microchip implanted in the animal
at the owner’s expense. Upon request, the owner or custodian of a dangerous
animal must make the animal available to the City for an inspection to
determine whether a microchip has been implanted.
3.   Removal of Dangerous Animal Classification. Beginning six months after an
animal is declared a dangerous animal, an owner may request on an annual basis
that the City review the animal’s designation as a dangerous animal. The owner
must provide evidence that the animal’s behavior has changed due to the
animal’s age, neutering, environment, completion of obedience training that
includes modification of aggressive behavior, or other factors. If the animal’s
behavior has changed, the City may rescind the dangerous animal classification.
4.   Seizure of Dangerous Animals. The City may seize any dangerous animal if
the animal has been declared dangerous and the owner has not registered the
animal pursuant to this section. The City may also seize a dangerous animal
that is not being maintained in a secure enclosure or a dangerous animal that
is outside of the enclosure and is not under the required physical restraint.
The City shall provide the animal’s owner with notice of the animal’s seizure.
A dangerous animal seized under this section may be reclaimed by the owner upon
payment of impound fees and presenting proof that all requirements of this
section are being met. A dangerous animal that is not reclaimed within seven
days of the date of the notice may be disposed of as provided in this section
and the animal’s owner shall be responsible for any costs incurred in the
confinement and disposal of the animal.
5.   Destruction of Dangerous Animals. The City Administrator, after having
been advised that an animal has inflicted substantial or great bodily harm on a
human being on public or private property without provocation; or that a
dangerous animal is in violation of this section may proceed as follows:
   A.   The owner of the animal shall be notified by the City in writing either
personally or by mail as to the reasons the animal is subject to destruction
under this section and the dates, times, places, and names of persons harmed
and shall be given seven days to request a hearing for a determination as to
the disposition of the animal. If the owner does not request a hearing within
seven days of the date of receiving the notice, the City Administrator may
order the animal to be destroyed and shall serve or deliver a copy of the
destruction order to the animal’s owner. The City shall not destroy an animal
until at least five business days have passed since the issuance of a
destruction order.
   B.   If the animal’s owner requests a hearing for determination as to the
dangerous nature of the animal, the hearing shall be held before the City
Council at a date not more than 14 days after receipt of the owners request for
the hearing. The records of a peace officer shall be admissible for
consideration without further foundation. After considering all evidence, the
Council shall make a determination as they deem proper. The Council may order
the animal to be destroyed and the City shall serve or deliver a copy of the
Council’s destruction order to the animal’s owner. The decision of the Council
shall be final unless the owner files an appeal to the District Court. The City
shall not destroy an animal until at least five business days have passed since
the issuance of a destruction order.
   C.   A peace officer is authorized to take the animal subject to the
destruction order into custody at the time a destruction order is served or
delivered. The animal’s owner must immediately make the animal available to the
peace officer at the time a destruction order is served or delivered.
56.06   LIABILITY INSURANCE.
The owner or keeper of an animal determined to be a dangerous animal or
potentially dangerous animal under this chapter shall present to the City
Administrator, within 30 days of final determination of the City Administrator
or City Council, proof that the owner or keeper has procured liability
insurance covering any damage or injury which may be caused by such animal. For
a dangerous animal, the amount of insurance coverage shall be at least
$100,000.00, and for a potentially dangerous animal at least $50,000.00. The
owner or keeper shall maintain and shall not voluntarily cancel the liability
insurance required by this section as long as the animal is alive and within
the City, unless the owner or keeper shall cease to own or keep the animal.
Proof of such insurance shall be filed annually with the City Administrator,
within 30 days of the anniversary date of the final determination.
56.07   FEES.
The owner of an animal which has been impounded pursuant to this chapter shall
be charged for all costs incurred in connection with the impoundment of the
animal, including, but not limited to, a pickup fee and a daily boarding fee.
The owner shall be required to pay all such fees before any animal is released
to the owner.
56.08   HARBORING PROHIBITED.
No person shall knowingly harbor or hide or cause to be harbored or hidden any
known dangerous animal and shall immediately surrender any such animal to a
peace officer.
56.09   FURTHER PROCEEDINGS.
In the event that a peace officer has cause to believe that the owner or keeper
of an animal that has been declared a dangerous animal or potentially dangerous
animal under this chapter, has failed to fully comply or to maintain compliance
with the provisions of this chapter or any written agreement entered into
pursuant thereto, upon notification of the same to the City Administrator, the
City Administrator may cause the animal to be impounded and may convene a
hearing for the purpose of determining whether the owner or keeper has failed
to so comply, and what disposition of the animal is appropriate. Said hearing
shall be conducted in the manner of an original proceeding, shall be subject to
appeal, and the City Administrator may take such actions regarding disposition
of the animal as provided in this chapter, including without limitation,
destruction of the animal.
56.10   NOT EXCLUSIVE REMEDY.
The provisions of this chapter are not intended to be exclusive of any other
remedy available to the City or to any private individual, and this chapter
shall not be construed to invalidate or repeal any other remedy provided by
ordinance, statute or common law.
56.11   EXCEPTION.
Animals owned and controlled by local, State and federal law enforcement
agencies that are used in law enforcement or related activities are exempt from
the provisions of this chapter.
CHAPTER 60
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE
 
60.01 Title                          60.05 Reports of Traffic Accidents
60.02 Definitions                    60.06 Peace Officer’s Authority
60.03 Administration and Enforcement 60.07 Obedience to Peace Officers
60.04 Power to Direct Traffic        60.08 Parades Regulated
 
60.01   TITLE.
Chapters
60 through
70 of this Code of Ordinances may be known and cited as the “Reinbeck Traffic
Code” (and are referred to herein as the “Traffic Code”).
60.02   DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in the Traffic Code are defined by State law, such
definitions apply to their use in said Traffic Code and are hereby adopted by
reference. Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, have the following
meanings:
1.   “Business District” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway when 50 percent or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of 300
feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(7))
2.   “MPH” means miles per hour.
3.   “Parade” means any march or procession of persons or vehicles organized
for marching or moving on the streets in an organized fashion or manner or any
march or procession of persons or vehicles represented or advertised to the
public as a parade.
4.   “Park” or “parking” means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
5.   “Peace officer” means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
6.   “Pedestrian” means a person afoot or a person using a pedestrian
conveyance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(51))
7.   “Pedestrian conveyance” means any human-powered device by which a
pedestrian may move other than by walking or by which a pedestrian may move
another person, including but not limited to a wheelchair, stroller,
skateboard, scooter, or other similar device. Pedestrian conveyance also
includes an electric personal assistive mobility device and any other device
used to move a person sitting or standing on the device regardless of whether
the device is powered by an electric motor, so long as the electric motor
produces less than 750 watts. Pedestrian conveyance does not include a bicycle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(51A))
8.   “Residence district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway not comprising a business, suburban, or school district, where 40
percent or more of the frontage on such a highway for a distance of 300 feet or
more is occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings in use for
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(63))
9.   “School district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway for a distance of 200 feet in either direction from a schoolhouse.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(70))
10.   “Stand” or “standing” means the halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving
or discharging passengers.
11.   “Stop” means when required, the complete cessation of movement.
12.   “Stop” or “stopping” means when prohibited, any halting of a vehicle,
even momentarily, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control sign or signal.
13.   “Suburban district” means all other parts of the City not included in the
business, school, or residence districts.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(78))
14.   “Traffic control device” means all signs, signals, markings, and devices
not inconsistent with this chapter, lawfully placed or erected for the purpose
of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
15.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway. Vehicle does not include:
   A.   Any device moved by human power, including a low-speed electric
bicycle.
   B.   Any device used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   C.   Any personal delivery device operated pursuant to Chapter 321O of the
Code of Iowa.
   D.   Any integral part of a truck tractor or road tractor which is mounted
on the frame of the truck tractor or road tractor immediately behind the cab
and which may be used to transport persons and property, but which cannot be
drawn upon the highway by the truck tractor or another motor vehicle.
   E.   Any steering axle, dolly, auxiliary axle, or other integral part of
another vehicle which in and of itself is incapable of commercially
transporting any person or property but is used primarily to support another
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(90))
(Section 60.02 – Ord. 2024-09OR – Oct. 24 Supp.)
60.03   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
Provisions of this Traffic Code and State law relating to motor vehicles and
law of the road are enforced by the peace officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
60.04   POWER TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
A peace officer or, in the absence of a peace officer, any officer of the Fire
Department when at the scene of a fire, is authorized to direct all traffic by
voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws. In the event of an
emergency, traffic may be directed as conditions require, notwithstanding the
provisions of the traffic laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.4 and 321.236[2])
60.05   REPORTS OF TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS.
The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident within the limits of the City
shall file a report as and when required by the Iowa Department of
Transportation. A copy of this report shall be filed with the City for the
confidential use of peace officers and shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 321.271 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.273)
60.06   PEACE OFFICER’S AUTHORITY.
A peace officer is authorized to stop a vehicle to require exhibition of the
driver’s license of the driver, to serve a summons or memorandum of traffic
violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to inspect the vehicle with
reference to size, weight, cargo, log book, bills of lading, or other manifest
of employment, tires and safety equipment, or to inspect the registration
certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or permit of such
vehicle. A peace officer having probable cause to stop a vehicle may require
exhibition of the proof of financial liability coverage card issued for the
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.492)
60.07   OBEDIENCE TO PEACE OFFICERS.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control, or regulate traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.229)
60.08   PARADES REGULATED.
No person shall conduct or cause any parade on any street except as provided
herein:
1.   Permit Required. No parade shall be conducted without first obtaining a
written permit from the City Administrator. Such permit shall state the time
and date for the parade to be held and the streets or general route therefor.
Such written permit granted to the person organizing or sponsoring the parade
shall be permission for all participants therein to parade when such
participants have been invited by the permittee to participate therein. No fee
shall be required for such permit.
2.   Parade Not A Street Obstruction. Any parade for which a permit has been
issued as herein required, and the persons lawfully participating therein,
shall not be deemed an obstruction of the streets notwithstanding the
provisions of any other ordinance to the contrary.
3.   Control by Police and Firefighters. Persons participating in any parade
shall at all times be subject to the lawful orders and directions in the
performance of their duties of law enforcement personnel and members of the
Fire Department.
CHAPTER 61
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
 
61.01 Installation  61.04 Standards
61.02 Crosswalks    61.05 Compliance
61.03 Traffic Lanes
 
61.01   INSTALLATION.
The Mayor shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic control devices when
and as required under this Traffic Code or under State law or emergency or
temporary traffic control devices for the duration of an emergency or temporary
condition as traffic conditions may require to regulate, guide, or warn
traffic. The City Administrator shall keep a record of all such traffic control
devices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.02   CROSSWALKS.
The City Administrator is hereby authorized, subject to approval of the Council
by resolution, to designate and maintain crosswalks by appropriate traffic
control devices at intersections where, due to traffic conditions, there is
particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street or roadway, and at such
other places as traffic conditions require.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] and 321.255)
61.03   TRAFFIC LANES.
The City Administrator is hereby authorized to mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as traffic conditions require, consistent with this
Traffic Code. Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] and 321.255)
61.04   STANDARDS.
Traffic control devices shall comply with standards established by The Manual
of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.05   COMPLIANCE.
No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official traffic
control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, unless
at the time otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject to the exceptions
granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under Section 321.231 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
CHAPTER 62
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
 
62.01 Violation of Regulations 62.05 Quiet Zones
62.02 Play Streets Designated  62.06 Obstructing View at Intersections
62.03 Vehicles on Sidewalks    62.07 Compression Brakes
62.04 Clinging to Vehicle
 
62.01   VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
Any person who willfully fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order of a
peace officer or direction of a Fire Department officer during a fire, or who
fails to abide by the applicable provisions of the following Iowa statutory
laws relating to motor vehicles and the statutory law of the road is in
violation of this section. These sections of the Code of Iowa are adopted by
reference and are as follows:
1.   Section 321.17 – Misdemeanor to violate registration provisions.
2.   Section 321.32 – Registration card, carried and exhibited; exception.
3.   Section 321.37 – Display of plates.
4.   Section 321.38 – Plates, method of attaching, imitations prohibited.
5.   Section 321.57 – Operation under special plates.
6.   Section 321.67 – Certificate of title must be executed.
7.   Section 321.78 – Injuring or tampering with vehicle.
8.   Section 321.79 – Intent to injure.
9.   Section 321.91 – Limitation on liability; penalty for abandonment.
10.   Section 321.98 – Operation without registration.
11.   Section 321.99 – Fraudulent use of registration.
12.   Section 321.104 – Penal offenses against title law.
13.   Section 321.115 – Antique vehicles; model year plates permitted.
14.   Section 321.174 – Operators licensed; operation of commercial vehicles.
15.   Section 321.174A – Operation of motor vehicle with expired license.
16.   Section 321.180 – Instruction permits, commercial learner’s permits, and
chauffeur’s instruction permits.
17.   Section 321.180B – Graduated driver’s licenses for persons aged fourteen
through seventeen.
18.   Section 321.193 – Restrictions on licenses; penalty.
19.   Section 321.194 – Special minors’ licenses.
20.   Section 321.208A – Operation in violation of out-of-service order;
penalties.
21.   Section 321.216 – Unlawful use of license and nonoperator’s
identification card; penalty.
22.   Section 321.216B – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain alcohol.
23.   Section 321.216C – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain tobacco, tobacco products
alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes.
24.   Section 321.218 – Operating without valid driver’s license or when
disqualified; penalties.
25.   Section 321.219 – Permitting unauthorized minor to drive.
26.   Section 321.220 – Permitting unauthorized person to drive.
27.   Section 321.221 – Employing unlicensed chauffeur.
28.   Section 321.222 – Renting motor vehicle to another.
29.   Section 321.223 – Driver’s license inspection for motor vehicle rental.
30.   Section 321.224 – Record kept.
31.   Section 321.232 – Speed detection jamming devices; penalty.
32.   Section 321.234A – All-terrain vehicles, highway use.
33.   Section 321.235A – Electric personal assistive mobility devices.
34.   Section 321.235B – Low-speed electric bicycles.
35.   Section 321.247 – Golf cart operation on City streets.
36.   Section 321.257 – Official traffic control signal.
37.   Section 321.259 – Unauthorized signs, signals or markings.
38.   Section 321.260 – Interference with devices, signs, or signals; unlawful
possession; traffic signal preemption devices.
39.   Section 321.262 – Leaving scene of traffic accident prohibited; vehicle
damage only; removal of vehicles.
40.   Section 321.263 – Information and aid; leaving scene of personal injury
accident.
41.   Section 321.264 – Striking unattended vehicle.
42.   Section 321.265 – Striking fixtures upon a highway.
43.   Section 321.266 – Reporting accidents.
44.   Section 321.275 – Operation of motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
45.   Section 321.276 – Use of electronic communication device while driving;
text-messaging.
46.   Section 321.277 – Reckless driving.
47.   Section 321.277A – Careless driving.
48.   Section 321.278 – Drag racing prohibited.
49.   Section 321.281 – Actions against bicyclists.
50.   Section 321.284 – Open container in motor vehicles, drivers.
51.   Section 321.284A – Open container in motor vehicles, passengers.
52.   Section 321.288 – Control of vehicle; reduced speed.
53.   Section 321.295 – Limitation on bridge or elevated structures.
54.   Section 321.297 – Driving on right-hand side of roadways; exceptions.
55.   Section 321.298 – Meeting and turning to right.
56.   Section 321.299 – Overtaking a vehicle.
57.   Section 321.302 – Overtaking and passing.
58.   Section 321.303 – Limitations on overtaking on the left.
59.   Section 321.304 – Prohibited passing.
60.   Section 321.306 – Roadways laned for traffic.
61.   Section 321.307 – Following too closely.
62.   Section 321.309 – Towing.
63.   Section 321.310 – Towing four-wheel trailers.
64.   Section 321.312 – Turning on curve or crest of grade.
65.   Section 321.313 – Starting parked vehicle.
66.   Section 321.314 – When signal required.
67.   Section 321.315 – Signal continuous.
68.   Section 321.316 – Stopping.
69.   Section 321.317 – Signals by hand and arm or signal device.
70.   Section 321.318 – Method of giving hand and arm signals.
71.   Section 321.319 – Entering intersections from different highways.
72.   Section 321.320 – Left turns; yielding.
73.   Section 321.321 – Entering through highways.
74.   Section 321.322 – Vehicles entering stop or yield intersection.
75.   Section 321.323 – Moving vehicle backward on highway.
76.   Section 321.323A – Approaching certain stationary vehicles.
77.   Section 321.324 – Operation on approach of emergency vehicles.
78.   Section 321.324A – Funeral processions.
79.   Section 321.329 – Duty of driver; pedestrians crossing or working on
highways.
80.   Section 321.330 – Use of crosswalks.
81.   Section 321.332 – White canes restricted to blind persons.
82.   Section 321.333 – Duty of drivers.
83.   Section 321.340 – Driving through safety zone.
84.   Section 321.341 – Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad
train or railroad track equipment.
85.   Section 321.342 – Stop at certain railroad crossings; posting warning.
86.   Section 321.343 – Certain vehicles must stop.
87.   Section 321.344 – Heavy equipment at crossing.
88.   Section 321.344B – Immediate safety threat; penalty.
89.   Section 321.354 – Stopping on traveled way.
90.   Section 321.359 – Moving other vehicle.
91.   Section 321.362 – Unattended motor vehicle.
92.   Section 321.363 – Obstruction to driver’s view.
93.   Section 321.364 – Preventing contamination of food by hazardous material.
94.   Section 321.365 – Coasting prohibited.
95.   Section 321.366 – Acts prohibited on fully-controlled access facilities.
96.   Section 321.367 – Following fire apparatus.
97.   Section 321.368 – Crossing fire hose.
98.   Section 321.369 – Putting debris on highway.
99.   Section 321.370 – Removing injurious material.
100.   Section 321.371 – Clearing up wrecks.
101.   Section 321.372 – Discharging pupils, stopping requirements; penalties.
102.   Section 321.381 – Movement of unsafe or improperly equipped vehicles.
103.   Section 321.381A – Operation of low-speed vehicles.
104.   Section 321.382 – Upgrade pulls; minimum speed.
105.   Section 321.383 – Exceptions; slow vehicles identified.
106.   Section 321.384 – When lighted lamps required.
107.   Section 321.385 – Head lamps on motor vehicles.
108.   Section 321.386 – Head lamps on motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
109.   Section 321.387 – Rear lamps.
110.   Section 321.388 – Illuminating plates.
111.   Section 321.389 – Reflector requirement.
112.   Section 321.390 – Reflector requirements.
113.   Section 321.392 – Clearance and identification lights.
114.   Section 321.393 – Color and mounting.
115.   Section 321.394 – Lamp or flag on projecting load.
116.   Section 321.395 – Lamps on parked vehicles.
117.   Section 321.398 – Lamps on other vehicles and equipment.
118.   Section 321.402 – Spot lamps.
119.   Section 321.403 – Auxiliary driving lamps.
120.   Section 321.404 – Signal lamps and signal devices.
121.   Section 321.404A – Light-restricting devices prohibited.
122.   Section 321.405 – Self-illumination.
123.   Section 321.408 – Back-up lamps.
124.   Section 321.409 – Mandatory lighting equipment.
125.   Section 321.415 – Required usage of lighting devices.
126.   Section 321.417 – Single-beam road-lighting equipment.
127.   Section 321.418 – Alternate road-lighting equipment.
128.   Section 321.419 – Number of driving lamps required or permitted.
129.   Section 321.420 – Number of lamps lighted.
130.   Section 321.421 – Special restrictions on lamps.
131.   Section 321.422 – Red light in front, rear lights.
132.   Section 321.423 – Flashing lights.
133.   Section 321.430 – Brake, hitch, and control requirements.
134.   Section 321.431 – Performance ability.
135.   Section 321.432 – Horns and warning devices.
136.   Section 321.433 – Sirens, whistles, and bells prohibited.
137.   Section 321.434 – Bicycle sirens or whistles.
138.   Section 321.436 – Mufflers, prevention of noise.
139.   Section 321.437 – Mirrors.
140.   Section 321.438 – Windshields and windows.
141.   Section 321.439 – Windshield wipers.
142.   Section 321.440 – Restrictions as to tire equipment.
143.   Section 321.441 – Metal tires prohibited.
144.   Section 321.442 – Projections on wheels.
145.   Section 321.444 – Safety glass.
146.   Section 321.445 – Safety belts and safety harnesses; use required.
147.   Section 321.446 – Child restraint devices.
148.   Section 321.449 – Motor carrier safety rules.
149.   Section 321.449A – Rail crew transport drivers.
150.   Section 321.449B – Texting or using a mobile telephone while operating a
commercial motor vehicle.
151.   Section 321.450 – Hazardous materials transportation regulations.
152.   Section 321.454 – Width of vehicles.
153.   Section 321.455 – Projecting loads on passenger vehicles.
154.   Section 321.456 – Height of vehicles.
155.   Section 321.457 – Maximum length.
156.   Section 321.458 – Loading beyond front.
157.   Section 321.460 – Spilling loads on highways.
158.   Section 321.461 – Trailers and towed vehicles.
159.   Section 321.462 – Drawbars and safety chains.
160.   Section 321.463 – Maximum gross weight; exceptions, penalties.
161.   Section 321.465 – Weighing vehicles and removal of excess.
162.   Section 321.466 – Increased loading capacity; reregistration.
62.02   PLAY STREETS DESIGNATED.
The Council shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a play
street and cause to be placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway
indicating and helping to protect the same. Whenever authorized signs are
erected indicating any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall
drive a vehicle upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of
vehicles having business or whose residences are within such closed area, and
then any said driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such
street or portion thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
62.03   VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk area except
at a driveway.
62.04   CLINGING TO VEHICLE.
No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of the City unless all
passengers of said vehicle are inside the vehicle in the place intended for
their accommodation. No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
in-line skates, sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or
herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
62.05   QUIET ZONES.
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
62.06   OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS.
It is unlawful to allow any tree, hedge, billboard, or other object to obstruct
the view of an intersection by preventing persons from having a clear view of
traffic approaching the intersection from cross streets. Any such obstruction
is deemed a nuisance and in addition to the standard penalty may be abated in
the manner provided by
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
62.07   COMPRESSION BRAKES.
It is unlawful for any person in any part of the City to make, or cause to be
made, loud or disturbing noises with any mechanical devices operated by
compressed air and used for the purpose of assisting braking on any semi-
tractor, commonly referred to as jakebraking.
CHAPTER 63
SPEED REGULATIONS
 
63.01 General                     63.04 Special Speed Zones
63.02 State Code Speed Limits     63.05 Minimum Speed
63.03 Cemeteries and Parking Lots
 
63.01   GENERAL.
Every driver of a motor vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a careful
and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and proper,
having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and of any
other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle on any
street at a speed greater than will permit said driver to bring it to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right to
assume, however, that all persons using said street will observe the law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.285)
63.02   STATE CODE SPEED LIMITS.
The following speed limits are established in Section 321.285 of the Code of
Iowa and any speed in excess thereof is unlawful unless specifically designated
otherwise in this chapter as a special speed zone.
1.   Business District – 20 MPH.
2.   Residence or School District – 25 MPH.
3.   Suburban District – 45 MPH.
63.03   CEMETERIES AND PARKING LOTS.
A speed in excess of 15 MPH in any public cemetery or parking lot, unless
specifically designated otherwise in this chapter, is unlawful.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[5])
63.04   SPECIAL SPEED ZONES.
In accordance with requirements of the Iowa Department of Transportation, or
whenever the Council shall determine upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that any speed limit listed in Section
63.02 is greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found
to exist at any intersection or other place or upon any part of the City street
system, the Council shall determine and adopt by ordinance such higher or lower
speed limit as it deems reasonable and safe at such location. The following
special speed zones have been established:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.290)
1.   Special 25 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 25 MPH is unlawful on any
of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   Blackhawk Street from 20 feet south of Water Plant Street to County
Road T-65 (Pioneer Road).
2.   Special 30 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 30 MPH is unlawful on any
of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   Grundy Avenue (Highway 175) from a point 200 feet west of College
Street to a point 230 feet east of Pine Street.
3.   Special 35 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 35 MPH is unlawful on any
of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   County Road T-65 (Pioneer Road) from 46 feet south of Valley Drive to
County Road D-53
4.   Special 55 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 55 MPH is unlawful on any
of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   County Road T-65 (Pioneer Road) from 1,210 feet north of East Kenwood
Street to the north corporate limits.
   B.   County Road D-53 from 575 feet west of Blackhawk Street.
63.05   MINIMUM SPEED.
A person shall not drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation, or in compliance with law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.294)
CHAPTER 64
TURNING REGULATIONS
 
64.01 Turning at Intersections 64.03 Left Turn for Parking
64.02 U-Turns
 
64.01   TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.311)
1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
2.   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half
of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to depart from the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
3.   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street shall
be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the centerline
thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it enters the
intersection. A left turn from a one-way street into a two-way street shall be
made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street being entered upon
leaving the intersection.
The Council may cause markers, buttons or signs to be placed within or adjacent
to intersections and thereby require and direct, as traffic conditions require,
that a different course from that specified above be traveled by vehicles
turning at intersections, and when markers, buttons or signs are so placed, no
driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as
directed and required by such markers, buttons or signs.
64.02   U-TURNS.
It is unlawful for a driver to make a U-turn except at an intersection;
however, U-turns are prohibited within the Business District at the following
designated intersections and at intersections where there are automatic traffic
signals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[9])
- NONE -
64.03   LEFT TURN FOR PARKING.
No person shall make a left hand turn, crossing the centerline of the street,
for the purpose of parking on said street.
CHAPTER 65
STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED
 
65.01 Through Streets             65.05 School Stops
65.02 Stop Required               65.06 Stop Before Crossing Sidewalk
65.03 Four-Way Stop Intersections 65.07 Stop When Traffic Is Obstructed
65.04 Yield Required              65.08 Pedestrians' Right-of-Way
 
65.01   THROUGH STREETS.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop, unless a yield is permitted by this
chapter, before entering an intersection with the following designated through
streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
1.   Blackhawk Street, from Main Street to the south corporate limits.
2.   Grundy Avenue, from the west corporate limits to the east corporate
limits.
3.   Main Street, from Pioneer Road to College Street.
4.   Park Street, from Pioneer Road to Chestnut Street.
5.   College Street, from Grundy Avenue to Park Street.
65.02   STOP REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
1.   Kenwood Street. Vehicles traveling west on Kenwood Street shall stop at
Pioneer Road.
2.   College Street. Vehicles traveling on College Street shall stop at Park
Street
3.   Commercial Street. Vehicles traveling on Commercial Street shall stop at
Park Street.
4.   West Street. Vehicles traveling on West Street shall stop at Park Street.
5.   Broad Street. Vehicles traveling south on Broad Street shall stop at Cedar
Street.
6.   Broad Street. Vehicles traveling on Broad Street shall stop at Park
Street.
7.   Broad Street. Vehicles traveling on Broad Street shall stop at Main
Street.
8.   Blackhawk Street. Vehicles traveling on Blackhawk Street shall stop at
Main Street.
9.   Blackhawk Street. Vehicles traveling on Blackhawk Street shall stop at
Grundy Avenue.
10.   Center Street. Vehicles traveling south on Center Street shall stop at
Cedar Street.
11.   Center Street. Vehicles traveling on Center Street shall stop at Park
Street.
12.   Pine Street. Vehicles traveling south on Pine Street shall stop at Cedar
Street.
13.   Pine Street. Vehicles traveling on Pine Street shall stop at Park Street.
14.   Pioneer Street. Vehicles traveling on Pioneer Street shall stop at the
County Road at the south corporate limits.
15.   Third Street. Vehicles traveling on Third Street shall stop at College
Street.
16.   Randall Street. Vehicles traveling east on Randall Street shall stop at
Pioneer Road.
17.   Park Street. Vehicles traveling east on Park Street shall stop at Pioneer
Road.
18.   Park Street. Vehicles traveling west on Park Street shall stop at the
County Road at the west corporate limits.
19.   Main Street. Vehicles traveling east on Main Street shall stop at Pioneer
Road.
20.   Hillcrest Street. Vehicles traveling on Hillcrest Street shall stop at
Cedar Street.
21.   Hillcrest Street. Vehicles traveling on Hillcrest Street shall stop at
Park Street.
22.   Eastgate Drive. Vehicles traveling west on Eastgate Drive shall stop at
Pioneer Road.
23.   Ridge Street. Vehicles traveling south on Ridge Street shall stop at
Cedar Street.
24.   East Spruce Street. Vehicles traveling on East Spruce Street shall stop
at College Street.
25.   First Street. Vehicles traveling on First Street shall stop at College
Street.
26.   Second Street. Vehicles traveling on Second Street shall stop at College
Street.
27.   Randall Street. Vehicles traveling west on Randall Street shall stop at
College Street.
28.   Valley Drive. Vehicles traveling east on Valley Drive shall stop at
Pioneer Road.
29.   West Street. Vehicles traveling on West Street shall stop at Main Street.
30.   West Street. Vehicles traveling on West Street shall stop at Clark
Street.
31.   Broad Street. Vehicles traveling on Broad Street shall stop at School
Street.
32.   Cedar Street. Vehicles traveling on Cedar Street shall stop at Broad
Street.
33.   Cedar Street. Vehicles traveling on Cedar Street shall stop at Pine
Street.
65.03   FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the following designated
four-way stop intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
1.   Intersection of Chestnut Street and Park Street.
2.   Intersection of Hillcrest Street and Cedar Street.
65.04   YIELD REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall yield in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
1.   Randall Street. Vehicles traveling on Randall Street shall yield at
Commercial Street.
2.   West Street. Vehicles traveling on West Street shall yield at Clark
Street.
3.   Grundy County Greenbelt Drive. Vehicles traveling on Grundy County
Greenbelt Drive shall yield at North Commercial Street.
4.   Randall Street. Vehicles traveling on Randall Street shall yield at Center
Street.
5.   West Street. Vehicles traveling on West Street shall yield at Cedar
Street.
65.05   SCHOOL STOPS.
At the following school crossing zones every driver of a vehicle approaching
said zone shall bring the vehicle to a full stop at a point 10 feet from the
approach side of the crosswalk marked by an authorized school stop sign and
thereafter proceed in a careful and prudent manner until the vehicle shall have
passed through such school crossing zone.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.249)
1.   Intersection of School Street and Blackhawk Street.
2.   Intersection of Cedar Street and Blackhawk Street.
3.   Intersection of Pine Street and Cedar Street.
4.   Intersection of Broad Street and Cedar Street.
65.06   STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK.
The driver of a vehicle emerging from a private roadway, alley, driveway, or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk
area and thereafter shall proceed into the sidewalk area only when able to do
so without danger to pedestrian traffic and shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicular traffic on the street into which the vehicle is entering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.353)
65.07   STOP WHEN TRAFFIC IS OBSTRUCTED.
Notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed, no driver
shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient
space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the
vehicle.
65.08   PEDESTRIANS' RIGHT-OF-WAY.
Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver of a
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need be, to
so yield to a pedestrian or a person riding a bicycle crossing the roadway
within any marked crosswalk or within any unmarked crosswalk at an
intersection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.327)
(Section 65.08 – Ord. 2024-09OR – Oct. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 66
LOAD AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
 
66.01 Temporary Embargo                  66.03 Load Limits Upon Certain Streets
66.02 Permits for Excess Size and Weight
 
66.01   TEMPORARY EMBARGO.
If the Council declares an embargo when it appears by reason of deterioration,
rain, snow or other climatic conditions that certain streets will be seriously
damaged or destroyed by vehicles weighing in excess of an amount specified by
the signs, no such vehicles shall be operated on streets so designated by such
signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471 and 472)
66.02   PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT.
The Mayor may, upon application and good cause being shown, issue a special
permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles of a size or weight or load exceeding the maximum
specified by State law or the City over those streets or bridges named in the
permit which are under the jurisdiction of the City and for which the City is
responsible for maintenance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 321E.2
66.03   LOAD LIMITS UPON CERTAIN STREETS.
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified on such signs at
any time upon any of the following streets or parts of streets:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 475)
CHAPTER 67
PEDESTRIANS
 
67.01 Walking in Street 67.03 Pedestrian Crossing
67.02 Hitchhiking       67.04 Use of Sidewalks
 
67.01   WALKING IN STREET.
Pedestrians shall at all times when walking on or along a street, walk on the
left side of the street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.326)
67.02   HITCHHIKING.
No person shall stand in the traveled portion of a street for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the driver of any private vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.331)
67.03   PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.328)
67.04   USE OF SIDEWALKS.
Where sidewalks are provided it is unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along
and upon an adjacent street.
CHAPTER 68
ONE-WAY TRAFFIC
68.01   ONE-WAY TRAFFIC REQUIRED.
Upon the following streets and alleys, vehicular traffic, other than permitted
cross traffic, shall move only in the indicated direction when appropriate
signs are in place.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[4])
- NONE -
CHAPTER 69
PARKING REGULATIONS
 
69.01 Park Adjacent to Curb             69.08 No Parking Zones
69.02 Parking on One-Way Streets        69.09 All Night Parking Prohibited
69.03 Angle Parking                     69.10 Truck Parking Limited
69.04 Manner of Angle Parking           69.11 Parking Limited to Twenty Minutes
69.05 Parking for Certain Purposes      69.12 Snow Removal
Illegal
69.06 Parking Prohibited                69.13 Municipal Parking Lots
69.07 Persons with Disabilities Parking
 
69.01   PARK ADJACENT TO CURB.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with
the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and
with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in the case of angle parking and
vehicles parked on the left-hand side of one-way streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.02   PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle on the left-hand side of a one-way
street other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction
of lawful traffic movement and with the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within
18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in
the case of angle parking.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.03   ANGLE PARKING.
Angle or diagonal parking is permitted only in the following locations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
1.   Main Street, on both sides, between Center Street and West Street.
2.   Broad Street, on both sides, between Highway 175 and Clark Street.
3.   Blackhawk Street, on both sides, between Highway 175 and Clark Street.
4.   Spruce Street, on the south side, between Blackhawk Street and West
Street.
69.04   MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
Upon those streets or portions of streets that have been signed or marked for
angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at an angle
to the curb or edge of the roadway or in the center of the roadway as indicated
by such signs and markings. No part of any vehicle or the load thereon, when
said vehicle is parked within a diagonal parking district, shall extend into
the roadway more than a distance of 16 feet when measured at right angles to
the adjacent curb or edge of roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.05   PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES ILLEGAL.
No person shall park a vehicle upon public property for more than 48 hours,
unless otherwise limited under the provisions of this chapter, or for any of
the following principal purposes:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
1.   Sale. Displaying such vehicle for sale.
2.   Repairing. For washing, lubricating, or repairing such vehicle except such
repairs as are necessitated by an emergency.
3.   Advertising. Displaying advertising.
4.   Merchandise Sales. Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a duly
established market place or when so authorized or licensed under this Code of
Ordinances.
5.   Storage. Storage, or as junk or dead storage, without first obtaining
written permission from the Council
69.06   PARKING PROHIBITED.
No one shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
1.   Crosswalk. On a crosswalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[5])
2.   Center Parkway. On the center parkway or dividing area of any divided
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
3.   Mailboxes. Within 20 feet on either side of a mailbox that is so placed
and so equipped as to permit the depositing of mail from vehicles on the
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
4.   Sidewalks. On or across a sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[1])
5.   Driveway. In front of a public or private driveway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[2])
6.   Intersection. Within an intersection or within 10 feet of an intersection
of any street or alley.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[3])
7.   Fire Hydrant. Within five feet of a fire hydrant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[4])
8.   Stop Sign or Signal. Within 10 feet upon the approach to any flashing
beacon, stop or yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[6])
9.   Railroad Crossing. Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing, except when parked parallel with such rail and not exhibiting a red
light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[8])
10.   Fire Station. Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of said entrance when properly sign posted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[9])
11.   Excavations. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction
when such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[10])
12.   Double Parking. On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at
the edge or curb of a street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[11])
13.   Hazardous Locations. When, because of restricted visibility or when
standing or parked vehicles would constitute a hazard to moving traffic, or
when other traffic conditions require, the Council may cause curbs to be
painted with a yellow color and erect no parking or standing signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[13])
14.   Churches, Nursing Homes, and Other Buildings. A space of 50 feet is
hereby reserved at the side of the street in front of any theatre, auditorium,
hotel having more than 25 sleeping rooms, hospital, nursing home, taxicab
stand, bus depot, church, or other building where large assemblages of people
are being held, within which space, when clearly marked as such, no motor
vehicle shall be left standing, parked or stopped except in taking on or
discharging passengers or freight, and then only for such length of time as is
necessary for such purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.360)
15.   Alleys. No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner
or under such conditions as to leave available less than 10 feet of the width
of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall
stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block
the driveway entrance to any abutting property. The provisions of this
subsection do not apply to a vehicle parked in any alley that is 18 feet wide
or less, provided that said vehicle is parked to deliver goods or services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
16.   Ramps. In front of a curb cut or ramp which is located on public or
private property in a manner which blocks access to the curb cut or ramp.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[15])
17.   Area Between Lot Line and Curb Line. That area of the public way not
covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and the curb line, where
curbing has been installed.
18.   In More Than One Space. In any designated parking space so that any part
of the vehicle occupies more than one such space or protrudes beyond the
markings designating such space.
69.07   PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.
The following regulations shall apply to the establishment and use of persons
with disabilities parking spaces:
1.   Establishment. Persons with disabilities parking spaces shall be
established and designated in accordance with Chapter 321L of the Code of Iowa
and Iowa Administrative Code, 661-18. No unauthorized person shall establish
any on-street persons with disabilities parking space without first obtaining
Council approval.
2.   Improper Use. The following uses of a persons with disabilities parking
space, located on either public or private property, constitute improper use of
a persons with disabilities parking permit, which is a violation of this Code
of Ordinances:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321L.4[2])
   A.   Use by an operator of a vehicle not displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit.
   B.   Use by an operator of a vehicle displaying a persons with disabilities
parking permit but not being used by a person issued a permit or being
transported in accordance with Section 321L.2[1b] of the Code of Iowa.
   C.   Use by a vehicle in violation of the rules adopted under Section 321L.8
of the Code of Iowa.
3.   Wheelchair Parking Cones. No person shall use or interfere with a
wheelchair parking cone in violation of the following:
   A.   A person issued a persons with disabilities parking permit must comply
with the requirements of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa when utilizing
a wheelchair parking cone.
   B.   A person shall not interfere with a wheelchair parking cone that is
properly placed under the provisions of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa.
69.08   NO PARKING ZONES.
No one shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any of the following specifically
designated no parking zones except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the direction of a peace officer or traffic
control signal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
- NONE -
69.09   ALL NIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED.
No person, except physicians or other persons on emergency calls, shall park a
vehicle on any of the following named streets for a period of time longer than
30 minutes between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 4:00 a.m. of any day.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
1.   On both sides of the 300, 400, and 500 blocks of Main Street.
2.   On both sides of the 100 block of Blackhawk Street.
3.   On both sides of the 1000 block of Broad Street.
(Section 69.09 – Ord. 2023-01OR – Jul. 23 Supp.)
69.10   TRUCK PARKING LIMITED.
No person shall park a motor truck, semi-trailer, or other motor vehicle with
trailer attached in violation of the following regulations. The provisions of
this section shall not apply to pick-up, light delivery, or panel delivery
trucks.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
1.   Business District. Excepting only when such vehicles are actually engaged
in the delivery or receiving of merchandise or cargo, no person shall park or
leave unattended such vehicle on any streets within the Business District. When
actually receiving or delivering merchandise or cargo such vehicle shall be
stopped or parked in a manner which will not interfere with other traffic.
2.   Residential Districts. No person shall park any truck, truck-trailer,
motor home, trailer, travel trailer, semi-trailer, or any combination thereof
which exceeds 17 feet in length on any street in the residential districts for
a continuous period of more than two hours.
3.   Noise. No such vehicle shall be left standing or parked upon any street,
alley, public or private parking lot, or drive of any service station between
the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. with the engine, auxiliary engine, air
compressor, refrigerating equipment or other device in operation giving off
audible sounds excepting only the drive of a service station when actually
being serviced, and then in no event for more than 30 minutes.
4.   Livestock. No such vehicle containing livestock shall be parked on any
street, alley, or highway for a period of time of more than 20 minutes.
69.11   PARKING LIMITED TO TWENTY MINUTES.
It is unlawful to park any vehicle for a continuous period of more than 20
minutes between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday
upon the following designated streets:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
1.   One parking space on the south side of Main Street in front of City Hall.
2.   The first parking space on the west side of Broad Street and Main Street
and the parking space west of the persons with disabilities parking space in
front of the pharmacy.
3.   One parking space on the north side of Main Street in front of the
laundromat located at the address 515 Main Street.
69.12   SNOW REMOVAL.
No person shall park, abandon or leave unattended any vehicle on any public
street, alley, or City-owned off-street parking area between the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 6:00 a.m. during the months of November, December, January, February,
and March.
(Code of Iowa, 321.236[1])
69.13   MUNICIPAL PARKING LOTS.
Any vehicle left in a municipal parking lot unmoved for seven consecutive days
or more will be ticketed and considered abandoned and will be towed at the
owner’s expense. If the vehicle is moved on the seventh day, it may not be
parked in the parking lot until after three consecutive days. The City shall
not be liable for any damages incurred by said towing.
CHAPTER 70
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
 
70.01 Arrest or Citation            70.04 Parking Violations: Vehicle
                                    Unattended
70.02 Scheduled Violations          70.05 Presumption in Reference to Illegal
                                    Parking
70.03 Parking Violations: Alternate 70.06 Impounding Vehicles
 
70.01   ARREST OR CITATION.
Whenever a peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provision of the Traffic Code, such officer may:
1.   Immediate Arrest. Immediately arrest such person and take such person
before a local magistrate; or
2.   Issue Citation. Without arresting the person, prepare in quintuplicate a
combined traffic citation and complaint as adopted by the Iowa Commissioner of
Public Safety, or issue a uniform citation and complaint utilizing a State-
approved computerized device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.6 and 321.485)
70.02   SCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.
For violations of the Traffic Code that are designated by Section 805.8A of the
Code of Iowa to be scheduled violations, the scheduled fine for each of those
violations shall be as specified in Section 805.8A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.8 and 805.8A)
70.03   PARKING VIOLATIONS: ALTERNATE.
Uncontested violations of parking restrictions imposed by this Code of
Ordinances shall be charged upon a simple notice of a fine payable at the
office of the City Clerk. The fine for each violation charged under a simple
notice of a fine shall be in the amount of $10.00 for all violations except
improper use of a persons with disabilities parking permit and all night
parking prohibited. If such fine is not paid within 30 days, it shall be
increased by $5.00. The simple notice of a fine for violation of all night
parking prohibited is $25.00 and the fine for improper use of a persons with
disabilities parking permit is $100.00.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1b] and 321L.4[2])
70.04   PARKING VIOLATIONS: VEHICLE UNATTENDED.
When a vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the Traffic Code, and
the driver is not present, the notice of fine or citation as herein provided
shall be attached to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
70.05   PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
In any proceeding charging a standing or parking violation, a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred shall be raised by proof that:
1.   Described Vehicle. The particular vehicle described in the information was
parked in violation of the Traffic Code; and
2.   Registered Owner. The defendant named in the information was the
registered owner at the time in question.
70.06   IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
A peace officer is hereby authorized to remove, or cause to be removed, a
vehicle from a street, public alley, public parking lot, or highway to the
nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the City, under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
1.   Disabled Vehicle. When a vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
2.   Illegally Parked Vehicle. When any vehicle is left unattended and is so
illegally parked as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
3.   Snow Removal. When any vehicle is left parked in violation of a ban on
parking during snow removal operations.
4.   Parked Over Limited Time Period. When any vehicle is left parked for a
continuous period in violation of any limited parking time. If the owner can be
located, the owner shall be given an opportunity to remove the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
5.   Costs. In addition to the standard penalties provided, the owner or driver
of any vehicle impounded for the violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be required to pay the reasonable cost of towing and storage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
CHAPTER 75
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND SNOWMOBILES
 
75.01 Purpose                  75.05 Hours of Operation
75.02 Definitions              75.06 Operation of ATVs and UTVs
75.03 General Regulations      75.07 Negligence
75.04 Operation of Snowmobiles 75.08 Accident Reports
 
75.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of all-terrain
vehicles and snowmobiles within the City.
75.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “All-terrain vehicle” or “ATV” means a motorized vehicle, with not less
than three and not more than six non-highway tires, that is limited in engine
displacement to less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to
less than 1,200 pounds and that has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled
by the operator and handlebars for steering control.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
2.   “Off-road motorcycle” means a two-wheeled motor vehicle that has a seat or
saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering
control and that is intended by the manufacturer for use on natural terrain.
“Off-road motorcycle” includes a motorcycle that was originally issued a
certificate of title and registered for highway use under Chapter 321 of the
Code of Iowa, but which contains design features that enable operation over
natural terrain. An operator of an off-road motorcycle is also subject to the
provisions of this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
3.   “Off-road utility vehicle” means a motorized vehicle, with not less than
four and not more than eight non-highway tires or rubberized tracks, that has a
seat that is of bucket or bench design, not intended to be straddled by the
operator, and a steering wheel or control levers for control. “Off-road utility
vehicle” includes the following vehicles:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   A.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 1” includes vehicles with a total dry
weight of 1,200 pounds or less and a width of 50 inches or less.
   B.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 2” includes vehicles, other than Type
1 vehicles, with a total dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less and a width of 65
inches or less.
   C.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 3” includes vehicles with a total dry
weight of more than 2,000 pounds or a width of more than 65 inches, or both.
An operator of an off-road utility vehicle is also subject to the provisions of
this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
4.   “Snowmobile” means a motorized vehicle that weighs less than 1,000 pounds,
that uses sled-type runners or skis, endless belt-type tread with a width of 48
inches or less, or any combination of runners, skis, or tread, and is designed
for travel on snow or ice. “Snowmobile” does not include an all-terrain vehicle
that has been altered or equipped with runners, skis, belt-type tracks, or
treads.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.1)
75.03   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
No person shall operate an ATV, off-road motorcycle, or off-road utility
vehicle within the City in violation of Chapter 321I of the Code of Iowa or a
snowmobile within the City in violation of the provisions of Chapter 321G of
the Code of Iowa or in violation of rules established by the Natural Resource
Commission of the Department of Natural Resources governing their registration,
equipment and manner of operation.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 321G and Ch. 321I)
75.04   OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES.
The operators of snowmobiles shall comply with the following restrictions as to
where snowmobiles may be operated within the City:
1.   Streets. Snowmobiles shall be operated only upon streets that have not
been plowed during the snow season and on such other streets as may be
designated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4a])
2.   Exceptions. Snowmobiles may be operated on prohibited streets only under
the following circumstances:
   A.   Emergencies. Snowmobiles may be operated on any street in an emergency
during the period of time when and at locations where snow upon the roadway
renders travel by conventional motor vehicles impractical.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4c])
   B.   Direct Crossing. Snowmobiles may make a direct crossing of a prohibited
street provided all of the following occur:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
      (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
street;
      (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all on-coming traffic that
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
      (4)   In crossing a divided street, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such street with another street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[2])
3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on an operating
railroad right-of-way. A snowmobile may be driven directly across a railroad
right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any other
provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.13[1h])
4.   Trails. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on all-terrain vehicle trails
except where so designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4f])
5.   Parks and Other City Land. Snowmobiles shall not be operated in any park,
playground, or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City. A snowmobile shall not be operated on any City land
without a snow cover of at least one-tenth of one inch.
6.   Sidewalk or Parking. Snowmobiles shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking” except for
purposes of crossing the same to a public street upon which operation is
authorized by this chapter.
75.05   HOURS OF OPERATION.
No snowmobile shall be operated in the City between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m. except for emergency situations or for loading and unloading from a
transport trailer.
75.06   OPERATION OF ATVS AND UTVS.
The operators of ATVs and UTVs shall comply with the following restrictions as
to where ATVs and UTVs may be operated within the City:
1.   Streets. ATVs and off-road utility vehicles may be operated on streets
only in accordance with Section 321.234A of the Code of Iowa or on such streets
as may be designated by resolution of the Council for the operation of ATVs or
registered off-road utility vehicles. In designating such streets, the Council
may authorize ATVs and off-road utility vehicles to stop at service stations or
convenience stores along a designated street. Except that four-wheeled off-road
utility vehicles may be operated upon the streets of the City so long as the
operation complies with the provisions governing this chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[1 and 3])
2.   Trails. ATVs and off-road utility vehicles shall not be operated on
snowmobile trails except where designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[4])
3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. ATVs and off-road utility vehicles shall not be
operated on an operating railroad right-of-way. An ATV may be driven directly
across a railroad right-of-way only at an established crossing and
notwithstanding any other provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved
portion of the established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.14[1h])
4.   Parks and Other City Land. ATVs and off-road utility vehicles shall not be
operated in any park, playground, or upon any other City-owned property without
the express permission of the City.
5.   Sidewalk or Parking. ATVs and off-road utility vehicles shall not be
operated upon the public sidewalk or that portion of the street located between
the curb line and the sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the
“parking.”
6.   Direct Crossing. An all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle may
make a direct crossing of a highway provided all of the following occur:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[5])
   A.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing.
   B.   The all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle is brought to a
complete stop before crossing the shoulder or main traveled way of the highway.
   C.   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard.
   D.   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another public street or highway.
   E.   The crossing is made from a street, roadway, or highway designated as
an all-terrain vehicle trail by any State agency, the County, or the City to a
street, roadway, or highway designated as an all-terrain vehicle trail by any
State agency, the County, or the City.
(Section 75.06 – Ord. 2024-03OR – Oct. 24 Supp.)
75.07   NEGLIGENCE.
The owner and operator of an ATV or snowmobile are liable for any injury or
damage occasioned by the negligent operation of the ATV or snowmobile. The
owner of an ATV or snowmobile shall be liable for any such injury or damage
only if the owner was the operator of the ATV or snowmobile at the time the
injury or damage occurred or if the operator had the owner’s consent to operate
the ATV or snowmobile at the time the injury or damage occurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.18 and 321I.19)
75.08   ACCIDENT REPORTS.
Whenever an ATV or snowmobile is involved in an accident resulting in injury or
death to anyone or property damage amounting to $1,500.00 or more, either the
operator or someone acting for the operator shall immediately notify a law
enforcement officer and shall file an accident report, in accordance with State
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.10 and 321I.11)
CHAPTER 76
BICYCLE REGULATIONS
 
76.01 Scope of Regulations            76.08 Riding on Sidewalks
76.02 Traffic Code Applies            76.09 Towing
76.03 Double Riding Restricted        76.10 Improper Riding
76.04 Two Abreast Limit               76.11 Parking
76.05 Speed                           76.12 Equipment Requirements
76.06 Emerging From Alley or Driveway 76.13 Special Penalty
76.07 Carrying Articles
 
76.01   SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
These regulations shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street or
upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to
those exceptions stated herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.02   TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by the laws of the State declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or
by the Traffic Code of the City applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except
as to those provisions that by their nature can have no application. Whenever
such person dismounts from a bicycle, the person shall be subject to all
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234)
76.03   DOUBLE RIDING RESTRICTED.
A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent and
regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons
at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234[3 and 4])
76.04   TWO ABREAST LIMIT.
Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles. All bicycles ridden on the roadway shall be kept to the right and
shall be operated as near as practicable to the right-hand edge of the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.05   SPEED.
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.06   EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall,
upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk or
sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.07   CARRYING ARTICLES.
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article that
prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.08   RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
The following provisions apply to riding bicycles on sidewalks:
1.   Business District. No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within
the Business District, as defined in Section
60.02(1) of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
2.   Other Locations. When signs are erected on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, no person shall
disobey the signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
3.   Yield Right-of-Way. Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.09   TOWING.
It is unlawful for any person riding a bicycle to be towed or to tow any other
vehicle upon the streets of the City unless the vehicle is manufactured for
such use.
76.10   IMPROPER RIDING.
No person shall ride a bicycle in an irregular or reckless manner such as
zigzagging, stunting, speeding, or otherwise so as to disregard the safety of
the operator or others.
76.11   PARKING.
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.12   EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
Every person riding a bicycle shall be responsible for providing and using
equipment as provided herein:
1.   Lamps Required. Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped
with a lamp on the front emitting a white light visible from a distance of at
least 300 feet to the front and with a lamp on the rear exhibiting a red light
visible from a distance of 300 feet to the rear, except that a red reflector on
the rear, of a type that is visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet
to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a
motor vehicle, may be used in lieu of a rear light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.397)
2.   Brakes Required. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake that will
enable the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean
pavement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.13   SPECIAL PENALTY.
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter may, in lieu of the
scheduled fine for bicyclists or standard penalty provided for violations of
this Code of Ordinances, allow the person’s bicycle to be impounded by the City
for not less than five days for the first offense, 10 days for a second
offense, and 30 days for a third offense.
CHAPTER 77
GOLF CARTS
 
77.01 Purpose                           77.04 Equipment
77.02 Operation of Golf Carts Permitted 77.05 Hours
77.03 Prohibited Streets                77.06 City Permit Required
 
77.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to permit the operation of golf carts on streets
in the City as authorized by Section 321.247 of the Code of Iowa. This chapter
applies whenever a golf cart is operated on any street or alley.
77.02   OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS PERMITTED.
Golf carts may be operated upon the streets of the City by persons possessing a
valid driver’s license and a City permit.
77.03   PROHIBITED STREETS.
Golf carts shall not be operated upon any City street which is a primary road
extension through the City (Highway No. 175). However, golf carts may cross
such a primary road extension. Anyone who resides on the prohibited street may
operate a golf cart on such prohibited street, but only to get to the nearest
street upon which golf carts are permitted. Golf carts shall not be operated in
or on any park, playground, sidewalk, or any publicly owned property except
with the permission of the governing body thereof.
77.04   EQUIPMENT.
Golf carts operated upon City streets shall be equipped with a slow moving
vehicle sign and a bicycle safety flag at all times during operation and shall
be equipped with adequate brakes. Golf carts shall be equipped with a rearview
mirror to provide the driver with adequate vision from behind. No golf cart
shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the number for which it is
designed and equipped.
77.05   HOURS.
Golf carts may be operated on City streets only between sunrise and sunset.
They shall not be operated when visibility is such that there is insufficient
light to clearly see person and vehicles at a distance of 500 feet.
77.06   CITY PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall operate a golf cart on any City street without first obtaining
a permit from the City.
1.   An application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the City
and shall contain the name and address of applicant, and the make, model, year,
and serial number of the golf cart. The applicant shall also provide proof of a
valid driver’s license.
2.   The applicant shall provide proof of, and maintain, public liability
insurance and bodily injury insurance in the amount required by the Code of
Iowa.
3.   The annual fee for a permit is $30.00 and is payable at the time the
permit is granted. Permits shall be valid from January 1 through December 31.
Permits may be issued at any time during the year but will be valid only
through December 31.
4.   All permits shall be issued for a specific motorized golf cart and
individual, except as otherwise stated. Permit holders will be issued a number
and shall affix
3-inch minimum reflective numbers to the left side of the golf cart near the
front.
5.   A permit may be suspended or revoked upon finding evidence that the permit
holder has violated the conditions of the permit or has abused the privilege of
being a permit holder. There will be no refund of the license fee.
CHAPTER 80
ABANDONED VEHICLES
 
80.01 Definitions                       80.06 Disposal of Abandoned Vehicles
80.02 Authority to Take Possession of   80.07 Disposal of Totally Inoperable
Abandoned Vehicles                      Vehicles
80.03 Notice by Mail                    80.08 Proceeds from Sales
80.04 Reclamation of Abandoned Vehicles 80.09 Duties of Demolisher
80.05 Fees for Impoundment
 
80.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[1] and Sec. 321.90)
1.   “Abandoned vehicle” means any of the following:
   A.   A vehicle that has been left unattended on public property for more
than 24 hours and lacks current registration plates or two or more wheels or
other parts which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
   B.   A vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for more than
24 hours.
   C.   A vehicle that has been unlawfully parked or placed on private property
without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property for more
than 24 hours.
   D.   A vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of a police
authority and has not been reclaimed for a period of 10 days. However, a police
authority may declare the vehicle abandoned within the 10-day period by
commencing the notification process.
   E.   Any vehicle parked on the highway determined by a police authority to
create a hazard to other vehicle traffic.
   F.   A vehicle that has been impounded pursuant to Section 321J.4B of the
Code of Iowa by order of the court and whose owner has not paid the impoundment
fees after notification by the person or agency responsible for carrying out
the impoundment order.
2.   “Demolisher” means a person licensed under Chapter 321H of the Code of
Iowa whose business it is to convert a vehicle to junk, processed scrap, or
scrap metal, or otherwise to wreck, or dismantle vehicles.
3.   “Garage keeper” means any operator of a parking place or establishment,
motor vehicle storage facility, or establishment for the servicing, repair, or
maintenance of motor vehicles.
4.   “Police authority” means the Iowa State Patrol or any law enforcement
agency of a county or city.
80.02   AUTHORITY TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
A police authority, upon the authority’s own initiative or upon the request of
any other authority having the duties of control of highways or traffic, shall
take into custody an abandoned vehicle on public property and may take into
custody any abandoned vehicle on private property. The police authority may
employ its own personnel, equipment, and facilities or hire a private entity,
equipment, and facilities for the purpose of removing, preserving, storing, or
disposing of abandoned vehicles. A property owner or other person in control of
private property may employ a private entity that is a garage keeper to dispose
of an abandoned vehicle, and the private entity may take into custody the
abandoned vehicle without a police authority’s initiative. If a police
authority employs a private entity to dispose of abandoned vehicles, the police
authority shall provide the private entity with the names and addresses of the
registered owners, all lienholders of record, and any other known claimant to
the vehicle or the personal property found in the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[2])
80.03   NOTICE BY MAIL.
1.   A police authority or private entity that takes into custody an abandoned
vehicle shall send notice by certified mail that the vehicle has been taken
into custody, no more than 20 days after taking custody of the vehicle. Notice
shall be sent to the last known address of record of the last known registered
owner of the vehicle, all lienholders of record, and any other known claimant
to the vehicle.
2.   Notice shall be deemed given when mailed. The notice shall include all of
the following:
   A.   A description of the year, make, model and vehicle identification
number of the vehicle.
   B.   The location of the facility where the vehicle is being held.
   C.   Information for the persons receiving the notice of their right to
reclaim the vehicle and personal property contained therein within 10 days
after the effective date of the notice. Persons may reclaim the vehicle or
personal property upon payment of all towing, preservation, and storage charges
resulting from placing the vehicle in custody and upon payment of the costs of
the notice required pursuant to this section.
   D.   A statement that failure of the owner, lienholders, or claimants to
exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
time provided shall be deemed a waiver by the owner, lienholders, and claimants
of all right, title, claim, and interest in the vehicle or personal property.
   E.   A statement that failure to reclaim the vehicle or personal property is
deemed consent for the police authority or private entity to sell the vehicle
at a public auction or dispose of the vehicle to a demolisher and to dispose of
the personal property by sale or destruction.
3.   If the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a private entity
without a police authority’s initiative, the notice shall state that the
private entity may claim a garage keeper’s lien as described in Section 321.90,
Subsection 1, of the Code of Iowa, and may proceed to sell or dispose of the
vehicle.
4.   If the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a police authority or
by a private entity hired by a police authority, the notice shall state that
any person claiming rightful possession of the vehicle or personal property who
disputes the planned disposition of the vehicle or property by the police
authority or private entity, or of the assessment of fees and charges provided
by this section, may ask for an evidentiary hearing before the police authority
to contest those matters.
5.   If the persons receiving notice do not ask for a hearing or exercise their
right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the 10-day reclaiming
period, the owner, lienholders, or claimants shall no longer have any right,
title, claim, or interest in or to the vehicle or the personal property.
6.   A court in any case in law or equity shall not recognize any right, title,
claim, or interest of the owner, lienholders, or claimants after the expiration
of the 10-day reclaiming period.
7.   If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identities
and addresses of the last registered owner and all lienholders, notice by one
publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the area where the
vehicle was abandoned shall be sufficient to meet all requirements of notice
under Subsection 2 of this Section. The published notice may contain multiple
listings of abandoned vehicles, but shall be published within the same time
requirements and contain the same information as prescribed for mailed notice
in Subsection 2 of this Section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3])
80.04   RECLAMATION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
Prior to driving an abandoned vehicle away from the premises, a person who
received (or who is reclaiming the vehicle on behalf of a person who received)
notice under Section
80.03 shall present to the police authority or private entity, as applicable,
the person’s valid driver’s license and proof of financial liability coverage
as provided in Section 321.20B of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.05   FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
The owner, lienholder, or claimant shall pay all towing and storage fees as
established by the storage facility, whereupon the vehicle shall be released.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.06   DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
If an abandoned vehicle has not been reclaimed as provided herein, the police
authority or private entity shall make a determination as to whether or not the
motor vehicle should be sold for use upon the highways, and shall dispose of
the motor vehicle in accordance with State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.07   DISPOSAL OF TOTALLY INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
The City or any person upon whose property or in whose possession is found any
abandoned motor vehicle, or any person being the owner of a motor vehicle whose
title certificate is faulty, lost, or destroyed, may dispose of such motor
vehicle to a demolisher for junk, without a title and without notification
procedures, if such motor vehicle lacks an engine or two or more wheels or
other structural part which renders the vehicle totally inoperable. The police
authority shall give the applicant a certificate of authority. The applicant
shall then apply to the County Treasurer for a junking certificate and shall
surrender the certificate of authority in lieu of the certificate of title.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[2e])
80.08   PROCEEDS FROM SALES.
Proceeds from the sale of any abandoned vehicle shall be applied to the expense
of auction, cost of towing, preserving, storing, and notification required, in
accordance with State law. Any balance shall be held for the owner of the motor
vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days, and then shall be deposited in the
State Road Use Tax Fund. Where the sale of any vehicle fails to realize the
amount necessary to meet costs the police authority shall apply for
reimbursement from the Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.09   DUTIES OF DEMOLISHER.
Any demolisher who purchases or otherwise acquires an abandoned motor vehicle
for junk shall junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or otherwise demolish such motor
vehicle. A demolisher shall not junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or demolish a
vehicle until the demolisher has obtained the junking certificate issued for
the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[3a])
CHAPTER 90
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
90.01 Definitions                   90.11 Installation of Water Service Pipe
90.02 Superintendent’s Duties     90.12 Responsibility for Water Service Pipe
90.03 Mandatory Connections         90.13 Failure to Maintain
90.04 Abandoned Connections         90.14 Curb Valve
90.05 Permit                        90.15 Interior Valve
90.06 Fee for Permit                90.16 Inspection and Approval
90.07 Compliance with Plumbing Code 90.17 Completion by the City
90.08 Plumber Required              90.18 Shutting Off Water Supply
90.09 Excavations                   90.19 Operation of Curb Valve and Hydrants
90.10 Tapping Mains
 
90.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in the chapters in this Code of
Ordinances pertaining to the Water Service System:
1.   “Combined service account” means a customer service account for the
provision of two or more utility services.
2.   “Customer” means, in addition to any person receiving water service from
the City, the owner of the property served, and as between such parties the
duties, responsibilities, liabilities, and obligations hereinafter imposed
shall be joint and several.
3.   “Superintendent” means the Superintendent of the City water system or any
duly authorized assistant, agent, or representative.
4.   “Water main” means a water supply pipe provided for public or community
use.
5.   “Water service pipe” means the pipe from the water main to the building
served.
6.   “Water system” or “water works” means all public facilities for securing,
collecting, storing, pumping, treating, and distributing water.
90.02   SUPERINTENDENT’S DUTIES.
The Superintendent shall supervise the installation of water service pipes and
their connection to the water main and enforce all regulations pertaining to
water services in the City in accordance with this chapter. This chapter shall
apply to all replacements of existing water service pipes as well as to new
ones. The Superintendent shall make such rules, not in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter, as may be needed for the detailed operation of the
water system, subject to the approval of the Council. In the event of an
emergency the Superintendent may make temporary rules for the protection of the
system until due consideration by the Council may be had.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
90.03   MANDATORY CONNECTIONS.
All residences and business establishments within the City limits intended or
used for human habitation, occupancy or use shall be connected to the public
water system, if it is reasonably available and if the building is not
furnished with pure and wholesome water from some other source.
90.04   ABANDONED CONNECTIONS.
When an existing water service is abandoned or a service is renewed with a new
tap in the main, all abandoned connections with the mains shall be turned off
at the corporation stop and made absolutely watertight.
90.05   PERMIT.
Before any person makes a connection with the public water system, a written
permit must be obtained from the City. The application for the permit shall
include a legal description of the property, the name of the property owner,
the name and address of the person who will do the work, and the general uses
of the water. If the proposed work meets all the requirements of this chapter
and if all fees required under this chapter have been paid, the permit shall be
issued. Work under any permit must be completed within 60 days after the permit
is issued, except that when such time period is inequitable or unfair due to
conditions beyond the control of the person making the application, an
extension of time within which to complete the work may be granted. The permit
may be revoked at any time for any violation of these chapters.
90.06   FEE FOR PERMIT.
Before any permit is issued the person who makes the application shall pay
$100.00 to the Clerk to cover the cost of issuing the permit and supervising,
regulating, and inspecting the work.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
90.07   COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE.
The installation of any water service pipe and any connection with the water
system shall comply with all pertinent and applicable provisions, whether
regulatory, procedural, or enforcement provisions, of the State Plumbing Code.
90.08   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installations of water service pipes and connections to the water system
shall be made by a State-licensed plumber.
90.09   EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required in making a connection
shall be performed in accordance with the State Plumbing Code and the
provisions of
Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
90.10   TAPPING MAINS.
All taps into water mains shall be made by or under the direct supervision of
the Superintendent and in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Independent Services. No more than one house, building, or premises shall
be supplied from one tap unless special written permission is obtained from the
Superintendent and unless provision is made so that each house, building, or
premises may be shut off independently of the other.
2.   Sizes and Location of Taps. All mains six inches or less in diameter shall
receive no larger than a three-fourths inch tap. All mains of over six inches
in diameter shall receive no larger than a one-inch tap. Where a larger
connection than a one-inch tap is desired, two or more small taps or saddles
shall be used, as the Superintendent shall order. All taps in the mains shall
be made in the top half of the pipe, at least 18 inches apart. No main shall be
tapped nearer than two feet of the joint in the main.
3.   Corporation Stop. A brass corporation stop, of the pattern and weight
approved by the Superintendent, shall be inserted in every tap in the main. The
corporation stop in the main shall be of the same size as the service pipe.
4.   Location Record. An accurate and dimensional sketch showing the exact
location of the tap shall be filed with the Superintendent in such form as the
Superintendent shall require.
90.11   INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE PIPE.
Water service pipes from the main to the meter setting shall be Type K copper.
The use of any other pipe material for the service line shall first be approved
by the Superintendent. Pipe must be laid sufficiently waving, and to such
depth, as to prevent rupture from settlement or freezing.
90.12   RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER SERVICE PIPE.
The costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the water service pipe shall be in accordance with the
following:
1.   Installation and Connection. The property owner shall be responsible for
all costs and expenses of the initial installation and connection of the
service pipe from the main to the building served.
2.   Maintenance. After the initial installation and connection, the City shall
be responsible for maintenance of the service pipe at the main and the property
owner shall be responsible for maintenance of the service pipe from the main to
the building served including the curb valve.
3.   Equipment. All equipment used for the repair or replacement of the curb
valve and the service pipe shall be approved by the City.
The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation or maintenance of said water
service pipe.
90.13   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
When any portion of the water service pipe which is the responsibility of the
property owner becomes defective or creates a nuisance and the owner fails to
correct such nuisance, the City may do so and assess the costs thereof to the
property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a and h])
90.14   CURB VALVE.
There shall be installed within the public right-of-way a main shut-off valve
on the water service pipe of a pattern approved by the Superintendent. The
shut-off valve shall be constructed to be visible and even with the pavement or
ground.
90.15   INTERIOR VALVE.
There shall be installed a shut-off valve on every service pipe inside the
building as close to the entrance of the pipe within the building as possible
and so located that the water can be shut off conveniently. Where one service
pipe supplies more than one customer within the building, there shall be
separate valves for each such customer so that service may be shut off for one
without interfering with service to the others.
90.16   INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
All water service pipes and their connections to the water system must be
inspected and approved in writing by the Superintendent before they are
covered, and the Superintendent shall keep a record of such approvals. If the
Superintendent refuses to approve the work, the plumber or property owner must
proceed immediately to correct the work. Every person who uses or intends to
use the municipal water system shall permit the Superintendent to enter the
premises to inspect or make necessary alterations or repairs at all reasonable
hours and on proof of authority.
90.17   COMPLETION BY THE CITY.
Should any excavation be left open or only partly refilled for 24 hours after
the water service pipe is installed and connected with the water system, or
should the work be improperly done, the City shall have the right to finish or
correct the work, and the Council shall assess the costs to the property owner
or the plumber. If the plumber is assessed, the plumber must pay the costs
before receiving another permit. If the property owner is assessed, such
assessment may be collected with and in the same manner as general property
taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a and h])
90.18   SHUTTING OFF WATER SUPPLY.
The Superintendent may shut off the supply of water to any customer because of
any violation of the regulations contained in these Water Service System
chapters that is not being contested in good faith. The supply shall not be
turned on again until all violations have been corrected and the Superintendent
has ordered the water to be turned on.
90.19   OPERATION OF CURB VALVE AND HYDRANTS.
It is unlawful for any person except the Superintendent to turn water on at the
curb valve, and no person, unless specifically authorized by the City, shall
open or attempt to draw water from any fire hydrant for any purpose whatsoever.
CHAPTER 91
WATER METERS
 
91.01 Purpose                           91.06 Meter Costs
91.02 Water Use Metered                 91.07 Meter Repairs
91.03 Fire Sprinkler Systems; Exception 91.08 Right of Entry
91.04 Location of Meters                91.09 Meter Testing
91.05 Meter Setting
 
91.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to encourage the conservation of water and
facilitate the equitable distribution of charges for water service among
customers.
91.02   WATER USE METERED.
All water furnished customers shall be measured through meters furnished by the
City and installed by the City.
91.03   FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS; EXCEPTION.
Fire sprinkler systems may be connected to water mains by direct connection
without meters under the direct supervision of the Superintendent. No other
open, unmetered connection shall be incorporated in the system, and there shall
be no valves except a main control valve at the entrance to the building which
must be sealed open.
91.04   LOCATION OF METERS.
All meters shall be so located that they are easily accessible to meter readers
and repairmen and protected from freezing. All meters shall have a remote
reader installed on the outside of the building at a point clearly visible to
meter readers.
91.05   METER SETTING.
The property owner shall provide all necessary piping and fittings for proper
setting of the meter including a valve on the discharge side of the meter.
Meter pits may be used only upon approval of the Superintendent and shall be of
a design and construction approved by the Superintendent.
91.06   METER COSTS.
The full cost of any meter larger than that required for a three-fourths inch
service shall be paid to the City by the property owner or customer prior to
the installation of any such meter by the City, or, at the sole option of the
City, the property owner or customer may be required to purchase and install
such meter in accordance with requirements established by the City.
91.07   METER REPAIRS.
Whenever a water meter owned by the City is found to be out of order the
Superintendent shall have it repaired. If it is found that damage to the meter
has occurred due to the carelessness or negligence of the customer or property
owner, or the meter is not owned by the City, then the property owner shall be
liable for the cost of repairs.
91.08   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Superintendent shall be permitted to enter the premises of any customer at
any reasonable time to read, remove, or change a meter.
91.09   METER TESTING.
The Superintendent shall make a test of the accuracy of any water meter at any
time when requested in writing. If it is found that such meter overruns to the
extent of five percent or more, the cost of the test shall be paid by the City
and a refund shall be made to the customer for overcharges collected since the
last known date of accuracy, but not more than five percent of the total water
bill and not for a longer period than three months. If the meter is found to be
accurate or slow or less than five percent fast, the user shall pay a testing
charge of $25.00.
CHAPTER 92
WATER RATES
 
92.01 Service Charges           92.06 Lien for Nonpayment
92.02 Rates For Service         92.07 Lien Exemption
92.03 Customer Deposits         92.08 Lien Notice
92.04 Billing for Water Service 92.09 Temporary Vacancy
92.05 Service Discontinued
 
92.01   SERVICE CHARGES.
Each customer shall pay for water service provided by the City based upon use
of water as determined by meters provided for in
Chapter 91. Each location, building, premises, or connection shall be
considered a separate and distinct customer whether owned or controlled by the
same person or not.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.02   RATES FOR SERVICE.
Water service shall be furnished at the following monthly rates within the
City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
 
Water Rates for Service
Cubic Feet Used Per Month Rate
First 150                 $15.60 (minimum bill)
All over 150              0.0356 per cubic feet
Before the first of July of each year, the City Administrator shall compute an
adjustment to the water rates based upon the multiplication of the current rate
by a factor equal to the increase in the Consumer Price Index (C.P.I.). This
adjustment shall be submitted to the Council. The City Administrator shall
annually, as part of the budget preparation, review the adequacy of the rates
and make recommendation to the Council concerning the need for any changes. The
rate increase shall go into effect on the July billing.
(Section 92.02 – Ord. 2025-01OR – Jul. 25 Supp.)
92.03   CUSTOMER DEPOSITS.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   There shall be required from every new customer a $100.00 deposit intended
to guarantee the payment of bills for utility service. The deposit shall be
refunded to, or applied to the account of, a homeowner upon completion of 14
months of prompt payment and the establishment of good credit. Tenant deposits
will not be refunded until they have vacated the property and their account is
paid in full.
2.   If a tenant moves in before the deposit is paid, the City will send a 10-
day notice to the tenant requesting payment of the deposit and a copy of the
letter to the property owner. If the tenant doesn’t pay the deposit, the water
will be shut off and will not be turned on until the deposit plus a $25.00
service fee is paid.
92.04   BILLING FOR WATER SERVICE.
Water service shall be billed as part of a combined service account, payable in
accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   Bills Issued. The Clerk shall prepare and issue bills for combined service
accounts on or before the first day of each month.
2.   Bills Payable. Bills for combined service accounts shall be due and
payable at the office of the Clerk by the twentieth day of each month.
3.   Late Payment Penalty. Bills not paid when due shall be considered
delinquent. A monthly late payment penalty of 10 percent of the amount due
shall be added to each delinquent bill. Each account will be forgiven one late
payment penalty during each calendar year.
4.   Shared Water Meter. For premises sharing a common water meter, water
service charge shall be assessed to each portion of the premises occupied or
used separately by the owner or by a tenant under a lease or sublease and shall
be computed on the average number of cubic feet of water usage per unit served
by the meter.
92.05   SERVICE DISCONTINUED.
Water service to delinquent customers shall be discontinued or disconnected in
accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   Notice. The City Administrator shall notify each delinquent customer that
service will be discontinued or disconnected if payment of the combined service
account, including late payment charges, is not received by the date specified
in the notice of delinquency. Such notice shall be sent by ordinary mail to the
customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred and shall inform
the customer of the nature of the delinquency and afford the customer the
opportunity for a hearing prior to the discontinuance or disconnection. The
City will also tag doors of delinquent customers 24 hours prior to
discontinuance of service as final notice of shutoff and a $25.00
administrative fee shall be charged to the delinquent customer for issuance of
the final notice.
2.   Notice to Landlords. If the customer is a tenant, and if the owner or
landlord of the property or premises has made a written request for notice, the
notice of delinquency shall also be given to the owner or landlord. If the
customer is a tenant and requests a change of name for service under the
account, such request shall be sent to the owner or landlord of the property if
the owner or landlord has made a written request for notice of any change of
name for service under the account to the rental property.
3.   Hearing. If a hearing is requested by noon of the day preceding the shut
off, the City Administrator shall conduct an informal hearing and shall make a
determination as to whether the discontinuance or disconnection is justified.
The customer has the right to appeal the City Administrator’s decision to the
Council, and if the Council finds that discontinuance or disconnection is
justified, then such discontinuance or disconnection shall be made, unless
payment has been received.
4.   Fees. A fee of $25.00 shall be charged before service is restored to a
delinquent customer. No fee shall be charged for the usual or customary trips
in the regular changes in occupancies of property.
92.06   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
The owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof shall be
jointly and severally liable for water service charges to the premises. Water
service charges remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon
the property or premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the
County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.07   LIEN EXEMPTION.  
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   Water Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall not apply to
charges for water service to a residential or commercial rental property where
water service is separately metered and the rates or charges for the water
service are paid directly to the City by the tenant, if the landlord gives
written notice to the City that the property is residential or commercial
rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or charges. The
City may require a deposit not exceeding the usual cost of 90 days of such
services to be paid to the City. When the tenant moves from the rental
property, the City shall refund the deposit if all service charges are paid in
full. The lien exemption does not apply to delinquent charges for repairs
related to any of the services.
2.   Other Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall also not apply to
the charges for any of the services of sewer systems, stormwater drainage
systems, sewage treatment, solid waste collection, and solid waste disposal for
a residential rental property where the charge is paid directly to the City by
the tenant, if the landlord gives written notice to the City that the property
is residential rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or
charges for such service. The City may require a deposit not exceeding the
usual cost of 90 days of such services to be paid to the City. When the tenant
moves from the rental property, the City shall refund the deposit if all
service charges are paid in full. The lien exemption does not apply to
delinquent charges for repairs related to any of the services.
3.   Written Notice. The landlord’s written notice shall contain the name of
the tenant responsible for charges, the address of the residential or
commercial rental property that the tenant is to occupy, and the date that the
occupancy begins. Upon receipt, the City shall acknowledge the notice and
deposit. A change in tenant for a residential rental property shall require a
new written notice to be given to the City within 30 business days of the
change in tenant. A change in tenant for a commercial rental property shall
require a new written notice to be given to the City within 10 business days of
the change in tenant. A change in the ownership of the residential rental
property shall require written notice of such change to be given to the City
within 30 business days of the completion of the change of ownership. A change
in the ownership of the commercial rental property shall require written notice
of such change to be given to the City within 10 business days of the
completion of the change of ownership.
4.   Mobile Homes, Modular Homes, and Manufactured Homes. A lien for nonpayment
of utility services described in Subsections 1 and 2 of this section shall not
be placed upon a premises that is a mobile home, modular home, or manufactured
home if the mobile home, modular home, or manufactured home is owned by a
tenant of and located in a mobile home park or manufactured home community and
the mobile home park or manufactured home community owner or manager is the
account holder, unless the lease agreement specifies that the tenant is
responsible for payment of a portion of the rates or charges billed to the
account holder.
92.08   LIEN NOTICE.
A lien for delinquent water service charges shall not be certified to the
County Treasurer unless prior written notice of intent to certify a lien is
given to the customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred. If
the customer is a tenant and if the owner or landlord of the property or
premises has made a written request for notice, the notice shall also be given
to the owner or landlord. The notice shall be sent to the appropriate persons
by ordinary mail not less than 30 days prior to certification of the lien to
the County Treasurer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.09   TEMPORARY VACANCY.
A property owner may request water service be temporarily discontinued and shut
off at the curb valve when the property is expected to be vacant for an
extended period of time. There shall be a $75.00 fee collected for restoring
service. During a period when service is temporarily discontinued as provided
herein there shall be no minimum water or sewer service charge but solid waste
fees will still be charged to the customer. The City will not drain pipes or
pull meters for temporary vacancies.
CHAPTER 93
PRIVATE WATER WELLS
 
93.01 Scope           93.03 Registration of Pre-Existing Wells
93.02 Permit Required 93.04 Permit Process
 
93.01   SCOPE.
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all private water wells located
or to be constructed within the City, including, but not limited to, new
construction and modification of existing wells.
93.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall construct a private well in the City or own or use a well
constructed after the effective date of this provision, unless the City
Administrator has issued a permit for the well. This permit shall be in
addition to any permits required by the State or County. This requirement shall
not apply to monitoring wells used for soil and groundwater investigation.
93.03   REGISTRATION OF PRE-EXISTING WELLS.
Any person who owns property in the City which has a well (other than a
monitoring well) which was constructed prior to the effective date of the
ordinance codified by this chapter, shall register said well with the City.
Registration forms for this may be obtained from the Water Department or from
the City Administrator’s office. There will be no fee charged for the
registration of a pre-existing well.
93.04   PERMIT PROCESS.
1.   Any person desiring a well permit shall make application to the City on
the form prescribed by the City. The City Administrator shall determine the
necessary information, date, and testing required for the issuance of the
permit.
2.   In determining whether to issue a permit or not, the City Administrator
shall consider the availability of public water to serve the real property,
building, or facility; the estimated amount of water to be consumed; possible
contamination of the water; and the purpose for which the water will be used.
The applicant shall be required to have an environmental assessment completed
to determine if there are known sources of contamination within 500 feet of the
proposed site.
3.   If the property, building, or facility to be served is located within 200
feet of public water, the City Administrator shall automatically deny the
permit, and the applicant shall be required to use the public water system.
4.   If the City Administrator determines that the water is in an area of
contamination or is otherwise unfit, said official may deny the permit or make
such limitations as to the use of the water from said private well as are
necessary to protect life and property. In determining what the actual area of
contamination is, the City Administrator shall consider current levels and
areas of contamination, as well as where the contamination might reasonably be
expected to expand to the foreseeable future.
5.   The application shall not be deemed complete until all information, data,
and testing results required by the City Administrator have been submitted to
said official for consideration and required fee is paid in full.
6.   The City Administrator shall rule upon the permit application within 30
working days of the submitting of the completed application. The City
Administrator may, upon good cause, extend said period for approval of the
application an additional 30 working days by issuing a written notice to the
applicant. Any application that is not acted upon in a timely manner by the
City Administrator shall be deemed to have been denied upon the expiration of
time provided by this section.
7.   The applicant may appeal the decision of the City Administrator to the
City Council by filing a written notice of appeal with the City Administrator
within 10 business days of the decision. The City Council shall meet to
determine the appeal within 45 days of the date the appeal is filed.
8.   The applicant shall pay an application fee in the amount set by resolution
of the Council.
9.   All required testing and collection of information and data shall be at
the applicant’s expense.
CHAPTER 94
WELLHEAD PROTECTION
94.01 Purpose                           94.11 Activities Relating to Toxic and
                                        Hazardous Substances
94.02 Definitions                       94.12 Permit Procedures
94.03 Substances Regulated              94.13 Wellhead Protection Officer
                                        Designated
94.04 Wellhead Protection Zone Maps and 94.14 Inspections
Listing
94.05 Primary and Secondary Zones       94.15 Transfer of Property
94.06 Determination of Location of      94.16 Building Permit Issuance
Properties Within Zones
94.07 Regulations Governing Primary     94.17 Underground Tank Restrictions
Protection Zones
94.08 Regulations Governing Secondary   94.18 City Action for Injunctive Relief
Protection Zones
94.09 Exempt Activities                 94.19 Notice of Violation
94.10 Existing Uses
 
94.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to institute land use regulations and
restrictions to protect the City’s water supply and well fields, restrict the
location of potential sources of contamination in close proximity to a public
water supply, and to promote the public health, safety and general welfare of
the residents of the City.
94.02   DEFINITIONS.
As used in this chapter:
1.   “Aquifer” means a rock formation, group of rock formations or part of a
rock formation that contains enough saturated permeable material to yield
significant quantities of water.
2.   “Contamination” means the presence of any harmful or deleterious
substances in the water supply.
3.   “Groundwater” means subsurface water in the saturated zone from which
wells, springs and groundwater runoff are supplied.
4.   “Hazardous substances” means those materials specified in Section
94.03.
5.   “Labeled quantities” means the maximum quantity of chemical as recommended
on the label, for specific applications.
6.   “Petroleum product” means fuels (gasoline, diesel fuels, kerosene, and
mixtures of these products), lubricating oils, motor oils, hydraulic fluids,
and other similar products.
7.   “Pollution” means the presence of any substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) or condition (temperature, pH, turbidity) in water
that tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a hazard or impair the
usefulness of the water.
8.   “Potable water” means water that is satisfactory for drinking, culinary
and domestic purposes, meeting current drinking water standards.
9.   “Primary containment” means the first level of product-tight containment,
i.e., the inside portion of that container which comes into immediate contact
on its inner surface with the hazardous material being contained.
10.   “Public utility” means any utility (gas, water, sewer, electrical,
telephone, cable television, etc.) whether publicly owned or privately owned.
11.   “Regulated substance” means substances included under Section
94.03.
12.   “Secondary containment” means the level of product-tight containment
external to and separate from the primary containment. Secondary containment
shall consist of leakproof trays under containers, floor curbing or other
containment systems and shall be of adequate size and design to handle all
spills, leaks, overflows and precipitation until appropriate action can be
taken. The specific design and selection of materials shall be sufficient to
preclude any substance loss. Containment systems shall be sheltered so that the
intrusion of precipitation is effectively prevented.
13.   “Toxic substance” means any substance that has the capacity to produce
personal injury or illness to humans through ingestion, inhalation or
absorption into the body.
14.   “Water pollution” means the introduction in any surface or underground
water of any organic or inorganic deleterious substance in such quantities,
proportions and accumulations that are injurious to human, plant, animal, fish,
and other aquatic life or property or that unreasonably interferes with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property or the conduct of business.
15.   “Well” means a pit or hole sunk into the earth to reach a resource supply
such as water.
16.   “Wellhead protection zone” means zones delineated by fixed radii around
wellheads, within which toxic substances will be regulated to protect the
quality of the underground resource.
94.03   SUBSTANCES REGULATED.
The materials regulated by this chapter consist of the following:
1.   Petroleum products as defined in Section
94.02.
2.   Substances listed in 40 CFR part 261, Subparts C and D, of the Federal
Hazardous Waste List.
3.   Substances listed by the Iowa Labor Commissioner pursuant to Section
898.12 of the Code of Iowa (Hazardous Chemicals Risks–Right to Know).
94.04   WELLHEAD PROTECTION ZONE MAPS AND LISTING.
Wellhead protection zone maps and listing of locations and any amendments
thereto are incorporated by reference and made a part of this chapter. These
maps shall be on file at City Hall. At the time of adoption of the ordinance
codified in this chapter, the location of all wells in the City supplying
potable water to the City water system shall be located on the official
wellhead protection map with primary and secondary protection zones indicated.
Such maps shall be provided to the City Clerk, Building Official, County Health
Department, and any other agency requesting the maps. The wellhead protection
zone maps may be updated on an annual basis. The basis for such an update may
include, but is not limited to, the following:
1.   Changes in the technical knowledge concerning the aquifer;
2.   Changes in permitted pumping capacity of City well fields;
3.   Addition or deletion of wells;
4.   Designation of new well fields.
94.05   PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ZONES.
The zones of protection indicated on the wellhead protection maps are as
follows:
1.   Primary Protection Zone. An area extending 200 feet radially from any well
supplying potable water to the City water system.
2.   Secondary Protection Zone. An area extending between 200 and 2,640 feet
radially from any well supplying potable water to the City water system.
94.06   DETERMINATION OF LOCATION OF PROPERTIES WITHIN ZONES.
In determining the location of properties within the zones depicted on the
wellhead protection zone maps, the following rules shall apply:
1.   Properties located wholly within one zone reflected on the applicable
wellhead protection zone map shall be governed by the restrictions applicable
to that zone.
2.   For properties having parts lying within more than one zone as reflected
on the applicable wellhead protection zone map, each part shall be governed by
the restrictions applicable to the zone in which it is located.
94.07   REGULATIONS GOVERNING PRIMARY PROTECTION ZONES.
1.   Permitted Uses. The following uses are permitted uses within the primary
protection zone (Zone A):
   A.   Parks, provided there is no on-site waste disposal or fuel storage tank
facilities associated within this use, and the Iowa Department of Natural
Resources (IDNR) Separation Distances From Wells for sources of contamination
is complied with;
   B.   Playgrounds;
   C.   Wildlife areas;
   D.   Nonmotorized trails, such as biking, skiing, nature, and fitness
trails.
2.   Prohibited Uses. The following uses are prohibited uses within the primary
protection zone (Zone A). Uses not listed are not considered permitted uses
unless specifically listed under Subsection 1 of this section, Subsection 3 of
this section, or issued a permit under Section
94.12:
   A.   Wastewater treatment facilities;
   B.   Septage or sludge spreading;
   C.   Agricultural activities;
   D.   Animal waste facilities;
   E.   Animal confinement facilities;
   F.   Animal waste land spreading;
   G.   Gas stations;
   H.   Asphalt products manufacturing;
   I.   Electroplating facilities;
   J.   Landfills or waste disposal facilities;
   K.   Spray wastewater facilities;
   L.   Junkyards or auto salvage yards;
   M.   Pesticide, herbicide, or fertilizer use, storage, mixing, handling, or
manufacturing facilities (excluding residential uses consistent with labeled
quantities);
   N.   Hazardous and toxic materials storage and use;
   O.   Hazardous and toxic waste facilities;
   P.   Radioactive waste facilities;
   Q.   Paint or coating manufacturing;
   R.   Salt Storage.
3.   Uses Requiring Permits. The following uses are prohibited uses within the
primary protection zone (Zone A) unless a permit is granted by the City Council
for such use as under Section
94.12. Uses not listed are not to be considered permitted uses, unless
specifically listed above under Subsection 1 or issued a permit under Section
94.12:
   A.   Sewered or unsewered residential uses;
   B.   On-site private sewage systems;
   C.   Underground storage tanks;
   D.   Vehicle repair establishments, including auto body repair;
   E.   Printing and duplicating businesses;
   F.   Bus or truck terminals;
   G.   Dry cleaning businesses;
   H.   Exterminating businesses;
   I.   Basement storage tanks;
   J.   Repair shops for items other than vehicles;
   K.   All commercial or industrial businesses not specifically listed
elsewhere in this chapter.
4.   Discharge of Hazardous Substances Prohibited. No person shall discharge or
cause or permit the discharge of a hazardous substance, in excess of labeled
quantities, to the soils, groundwater, or surface water within the primary
protection zone (Zone A). Any person knowing or having evidence of a discharge
shall report such information to the wellhead protection officer.
94.08   REGULATIONS GOVERNING SECONDARY PROTECTION ZONES.
1.   Permitted Uses. The following uses are permitted in the secondary
protection zone (Zone B):
   A.   All uses listed as permitted in the primary protection zone (Zone A);
   B.   Sewered residential, commercial, or industrial uses not prohibited
under Subsection 2 of this Section;
   C.   Aboveground storage tanks of 660 gallons or less;
   D.   Basement storage tanks.
2.   Prohibited Uses. The following uses are prohibited uses within the
secondary protection zone (Zone B). Uses not listed are not considered
permitted uses unless they are specifically listed under Subsection 1 of this
section, specifically listed under Subsection 3, or issued a permit under
Section
94.12:
   A.   Landfills or waste disposal facilities;
   B.   Spray wastewater facilities;
   C.   Junkyards or auto salvage yards;
   D.   Hazardous and toxic materials storage and use;
   E.   Hazardous and toxic waste facilities;
   F.   Radioactive waste facilities.
3.   Uses Requiring Permits. The following uses are prohibited within the
secondary protection zone (Zone B) unless a permit is issued for such use by
the City Council as under Section
94.12. Uses not listed are not to be considered permitted uses unless
specifically listed under Subsection 1 of this section or issued a permit under
Section
94.12:
   A.   Underground storage tanks of any size;
   B.   Private sewage systems;
   C.   Agricultural activities;
   D.   Septage or sludge spreading;
   E.   Animal waste land spreading;
   F.   Animal waste facilities;
   G.   Animal confinement facilities;
   H.   Gas stations;
   I.   Pesticide, herbicide or fertilizer use, storage, mixing, handling, or
manufacturing facilities (excluding residential uses consistent with labeled
quantities);
   J.   Asphalt products manufacturing;
   K.   Dry cleaning facilities;
   L.   Electroplating facilities.
4.   Discharge of Hazardous Substances Prohibited. No person shall discharge or
cause or permit the discharge of a hazardous substance, in excess of labeled
quantities, to the soils, groundwater, or surface water within the secondary
protection zone (Zone B). Any person knowing or having evidence of a discharge
shall report such information to the wellhead protection officer.
94.09   EXEMPT ACTIVITIES.
The following activities or uses are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter:
1.   The transportation of any hazardous substance through the well field
protection zones, provided the transporting vehicle is in transit;
2.   Silviculture uses and mosquito-control spraying, providing that such uses
shall comply with the Iowa Commercial and Public Pesticide Applicators and
Dealers Licensing through the Iowa Department of Agriculture. The use and
storage of herbicides and pesticides for silviculture uses is prohibited within
the primary protection zone (Zone A), but is allowed within the secondary
protection zone (Zone B);
3.   The use of any hazardous substance solely as fuel in a vehicle fuel tank
or as lubricant in a vehicle;
4.   Fire, police, emergency medical services, emergency management center
facilities or public utility transmission facilities;
5.   Retail sales establishments that store and handle hazardous substances for
resale in their original unopened containers;
6.   Consumer products limited to use at a facility solely for janitorial or
minor maintenance purposes;
7.   Consumer products located in the home which are used for personal, family
or household purposes;
8.   The storage and use of hazardous substances as a fuel or lubricant to
provide auxiliary power for emergency use to the well field, provided an
enclosed secondary containment system is provided for the hazardous substance;
9.   The use of water treatment chemicals connected with the operation of the
well.
94.10   EXISTING USES.
The use of structures or facilities existing at the time of the adoption of the
ordinance codified in this chapter may be continued even though such use may
not conform with the regulations of this chapter. However, such structure or
facility may not be enlarged, extended, reconstructed or substituted subsequent
to adoption of said ordinance unless an exemption is granted by the City
Council.
94.11   ACTIVITIES RELATING TO TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES.
Any person who engages in nonresidential activities relating to the storage,
handling, use or production of any toxic or hazardous substances who is exempt
from this chapter by law shall not be subject to the restrictions contained
herein.
94.12   PERMIT PROCEDURES.
All written requests for permits allowed under Subsections 2 and 3 of Sections
94.07 and
94.08 of this chapter will be made in writing to the City Council. Any permits
granted will be made conditional and may include environmental and safety
monitoring or a bond posted for future monitoring and cleanup costs. The permit
will be made void if environmental or safety monitoring indicate the facility
is emitting any releases of harmful contaminates to the surrounding
environment. The facility will be held financially responsible for all
environmental cleanup costs as under Section
36.04 of this Code of Ordinances. The construction of new structures or the
structural modification or expansion of existing structures within the primary
protection zone (Zone A) requires Council approval conditional upon the City
Engineer’s approval of the site plan. Site plan review costs will be the
responsibility of the owner.
94.13   WELLHEAD PROTECTION OFFICER DESIGNATED.
The Water and Sewer Supervisor is designated as the wellhead protection officer
unless another person is specifically designated by the Council to supervise
the implementation and enforcement of this chapter.
94.14   INSPECTIONS.
1.   The wellhead protection officer or inspector shall have the power and
authority to enter and inspect all buildings, structures, and land field zones
of influence for the purpose of making an inspection. Failure of a person
having common authority over a property to permit an inspection shall be
sufficient grounds and probable cause for a court of competent jurisdiction to
issue a search warrant to the protection officer to inspect such premises.
2.   In the event a building or structure appears to be vacant or abandoned,
and the owner cannot be readily contacted in order to obtain consent for an
inspection, the officer or inspector may enter into or upon any open or
unsecured portion of the premises in order to conduct an inspection thereof.
3.   The wellhead protection officer or inspector may inspect each well field
annually and shall maintain an inventory, if applicable, of all hazardous
substances which exist in each well field zone. An emergency plan shall be
prepared and filed with the County Emergency Management Agency indicating the
procedures which will be followed in the event of spillage of a regulated
substance so as to control and collect all such spilled materials.
4.   It shall be the duty of all law enforcement officers to assist in making
inspection when such assistance is requested by the officer or inspector.
94.15   TRANSFER OF PROPERTY.
The City requires that all abandoned wells and cisterns be properly sealed
prior to finalization of property sales or transfers within the corporate
limits of the City.
94.16   BUILDING PERMIT ISSUANCE.
No building permits shall be issued which are a violation of this chapter or a
source of contamination for a City well, and no commercial or industrial
building permits shall be issued which are a violation of the IDNR Separation
Distances From Wells.
94.17   UNDERGROUND TANK RESTRICTIONS.
No new underground tanks will be allowed for auxiliary fuel storage in the
primary or secondary zones.
94.18   CITY ACTION FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
If any person who engages in nonresidential activities stores, handles, uses,
or produces toxic substances within the wellhead protection zones as indicated
on the wellhead protection zone maps, continues to operate in violation of the
provisions of this chapter, then the City may file an action for injunctive
relief in the court of jurisdiction.
94.19   NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
Whenever an officer or an inspector determines that there is a violation of
this chapter, said officer or inspector shall give notice thereof, which notice
shall:
1.   Be in writing;
2.   Be dated and signed by the officer or inspector;
3.   Specify the violation or violations;
4.   State that the violation shall be corrected within a specified period of
time as issued in writing by the inspector.
CHAPTER 95
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
 
95.01 Purpose                   95.06 Service Outside the City
95.02 Definitions               95.07 Right of Entry
95.03 Superintendent            95.08 Use of Easements
95.04 Prohibited Acts           95.09 Special Penalties
95.05 Sewer Connection Required
 
95.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters of this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Sanitary
Sewers is to establish rules and regulations governing the treatment and
disposal of sanitary sewage within the City in order to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
95.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise,
the following terms are defined:
1.   “B.O.D.” (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand) means the quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20?, expressed in milligrams per liter or
parts per million.
2.   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the
building sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
3.   “Building sewer” means that part of the horizontal piping from the
building wall to its connection with the main sewer or the primary treatment
portion of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system conveying the
drainage of one building site.
4.   “Combined sewer” means a sewer receiving both surface run-off and sewage.
5.   “Customer” means any person responsible for the production of domestic,
commercial, or industrial waste that is directly or indirectly discharged into
the public sewer system.
6.   “Garbage” means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of
produce.
7.   “Industrial wastes” means the liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
8.   “Inspector” means the person duly authorized by the Council to inspect and
approve the installation of building sewers and their connections to the public
sewer system; and to inspect such sewage as may be discharged therefrom.
9.   “Natural outlet” means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake,
or other body of surface or groundwater.
10.   “On-site wastewater treatment and disposal system” means all equipment
and devices necessary for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment,
and disposal of wastewater from four or fewer dwelling units or other
facilities serving the equivalent of 15 persons (1,500 gpd) or less.
11.   “pH” means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions
in grams per liter of solution.
12.   “Public sewer” means a sewer in which all owners of abutting properties
have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
13.   “Sanitary sewage” means sewage discharging from the sanitary conveniences
of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office buildings,
factories, or institutions, and free from storm, surface water, and industrial
waste.
14.   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer that carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
15.   “Sewage” means a combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with
such ground, surface, and stormwaters as may be present.
16.   “Sewage treatment plant” means any arrangement of devices and structures
used for treating sewage.
17.   “Sewage works” or “sewage system” means all facilities for collecting,
pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage.
18.   “Sewer” means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
19.   “Sewer service charges” means any and all charges, rates or fees levied
against and payable by customers, as consideration for the servicing of said
customers by said sewer system.
20.   “Slug” means any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste that in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
21.   “Storm drain” or “storm sewer” means a sewer that carries storm and
surface waters and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
22.   “Superintendent” means the Superintendent of sewage works and of water
pollution control of the City or any authorized deputy, agent, or
representative.
23.   “Suspended solids” means solids that either float on the surface of, or
are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and that are removable by
laboratory filtering.
24.   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
95.03   SUPERINTENDENT.
The Superintendent shall exercise the following powers and duties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Operation and Maintenance. Operate and maintain the City sewage system.
2.   Inspection and Tests. Conduct necessary inspections and tests to assure
compliance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
3.   Records. Maintain a complete and accurate record of all sewers, sewage
connections, and manholes constructed showing the location and grades thereof.
95.04   PROHIBITED ACTS.
No person shall do, or allow, any of the following:
1.   Damage Sewer System. Maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment that is a part of the sewer system.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
2.   Surface Run-Off or Groundwater. Connect a roof downspout, sump pump,
exterior foundation drain, areaway drain, or other source of surface run-off or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
3.   Manholes. Open or enter any manhole of the sewer system, except by
authority of the Superintendent.
4.   Objectionable Wastes. Place or deposit in any unsanitary manner on public
or private property within the City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
5.   Septic Tanks. Construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage except
as provided in these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
6.   Untreated Discharge. Discharge to any natural outlet within the City, or
in any area under its jurisdiction, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
95.05   SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
The owners of any houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in
the future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer, are hereby required
to install, at such owner’s expense, suitable toilet facilities therein and a
building sewer connecting such facilities directly with the proper public
sewer, and to maintain the same all in accordance with the provisions of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters, such compliance to be completed within 90 days after
date of official notice from the City to do so provided that said public sewer
is located within 100 feet of the property line of such owner and is of such
design as to receive and convey by gravity such sewage as may be conveyed to
it. Billing for sanitary sewer service will begin the date of official notice
to connect to the public sewer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
95.06   SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
The owners of property outside the corporate limits of the City so situated
that it may be served by the City sewer system may apply to the Council for
permission to connect to the public sewer upon the terms and conditions
stipulated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 and 3])
95.07   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
The Superintendent or representatives shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper,
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
95.08   USE OF EASEMENTS.
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
95.09   SPECIAL PENALTIES.
The following special penalty provisions shall apply to violations of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters:
1.   Notice of Violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of
these chapters except Subsections 1, 3, and 4 of Section
95.04, shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
2.   Continuing Violations. Any person who shall continue any violation beyond
the time limit provided for in Subsection 1 hereof shall be in violation of
this Code of Ordinances. Each day in which any such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
3.   Liability Imposed. Any person violating any of the provisions of these
chapters shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the City by reason of such violation.
CHAPTER 96
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
 
96.01 Permit                  96.07 Sewer Tap
96.02 Permit Fee              96.08 Inspection Required
96.03 Plumber Required        96.09 Property Owner’s Responsibility
96.04 Excavations             96.10 Abandoned Connections
96.05 Connection Requirements 96.11 Abatement of Violations
96.06 Interceptors Required
 
96.01   PERMIT.
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening into,
use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the City. The application for the permit shall
set forth the location and description of the property to be connected with the
sewer system and the purpose for which the sewer is to be used, and shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent. The permit shall require the owner to complete construction and
connection of the building sewer to the public sewer within 60 days after the
issuance of the permit, except that when a property owner makes sufficient
showing that due to conditions beyond the owner’s control or peculiar hardship,
such time period is inequitable or unfair, an extension of time within which to
comply with the provisions herein may be granted. Any sewer connection permit
may be revoked at any time for a violation of these chapters.
96.02   PERMIT FEE.
The person who makes the application shall pay a fee in the amount of $100.00
to the Clerk to cover the cost of issuing the permit and supervising,
regulating, and inspecting the work.
96.03   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installations of building sewers and connections to the public sewer shall
be made by a State-licensed plumber.
96.04   EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required for the installation of a
building sewer shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the
State Plumbing Code and the provisions of
Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
96.05   CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
Any connection with a public sanitary sewer must be made under the direct
supervision of the Superintendent and in accordance with the following:
1.   Old Building Sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test conducted by
the owner and observed by the Superintendent, to meet all requirements of this
chapter.
2.   Separate Building Sewers. A separate and independent building sewer shall
be provided for every occupied building; except where one building stands at
the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can
be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or
driveway. In such cases the building sewer from the front building may be
extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
3.   Installation. The installation and connection of the building sewer to the
public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the State Plumbing Code and
applicable rules and regulations of the City. All such connections shall be
made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
4.   Water Lines. When possible, building sewers should be laid at least 10
feet horizontally from a water service. The horizontal separation may be less,
provided the water service line is located at one side and at least 12 inches
above the top of the building sewer.
5.   Size. Building sewers shall be sized for the peak expected sewage flow
from the building with a minimum building sewer size of four inches.
6.   Alignment and Grade. All building sewers shall be laid to a straight line
to meet the following:
   A.   Recommended grade at one-fourth inch per foot.
   B.   Minimum grade of one-eighth inch per foot.
   C.   Minimum velocity of two feet per second with the sewer half full.
   D.   Any deviation in alignment or grade shall be made only with the written
approval of the Superintendent and shall be made only with approved fittings.
7.   Depth. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. The depth of cover above the
sewer shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost.
8.   Sewage Lifts. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain
shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building
sewer.
9.   Pipe Specifications. Building sewer pipe shall be free from flaws, splits,
or breaks. Materials shall be as specified in the State Plumbing Code except
that the building sewer pipe, from the property line to the public sewer, shall
comply with the current edition of one of the following:
   A.   Clay sewer pipe – A.S.T.M. C-700 (extra strength).
   B.   Extra heavy cast iron soil pipe – A.S.T.M. A-74.
   C.   Ductile iron water pipe – A.W.W.A. C-151.
   D.   P.V.C. – SDR26 – A.S.T.M. D-3034.
10.   Bearing Walls. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within
three feet of any bearing wall that might thereby be weakened.
11.   Jointing. Fittings, type of joint, and jointing material shall be
compatible with the type of pipe used, subject to the approval of the
Superintendent. Solvent-welded joints are not permitted.
12.   Unstable Soil. No sewer connection shall be laid so that it is exposed
when crossing any watercourse. Where an old watercourse must of necessity be
crossed or where there is any danger of undermining or settlement, cast iron
soil pipe or vitrified clay sewer pipe thoroughly encased in concrete shall be
required for such crossings. Such encasement shall extend at least six inches
on all sides of the pipe. The cast iron pipe or encased clay pipe shall rest on
firm, solid material at either end.
13.   Preparation of Basement or Crawl Space. No connection for any residence,
business or other structure with any sanitary sewer shall be made unless the
basement floor is poured, or in the case of a building with a slab or crawl
space, unless the ground floor is installed with the area adjacent to the
foundation of such building cleared of debris and backfilled. The backfill
shall be well compacted and graded so that the drainage is away from the
foundation. Prior to the time the basement floor is poured, or the first floor
is installed in buildings without basements, the sewer shall be plugged and the
plug shall be sealed by the Superintendent. Any accumulation of water in any
excavation or basement during construction and prior to connection to the
sanitary sewer shall be removed by means other than draining into the sanitary
sewer.
96.06   INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
Grease, oil, sludge, and sand interceptors shall be provided by gas and service
stations, convenience stores, car washes, garages, and other facilities when,
in the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of such wastes that contain grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable waste, sand, or other harmful ingredients. Such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. When required,
such interceptors shall be installed in accordance with the following:
1.   Design and Location. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity as
specified in the State Plumbing Code, to be approved by the Superintendent, and
shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
2.   Construction Standards. The interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious material capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped
with easily removable covers that shall be gastight and watertight.
3.   Maintenance. All such interceptors shall be maintained by the owner at the
owner’s expense and shall be kept in continuously efficient operations at all
times.
96.07   SEWER TAP.
Connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the “Y”
branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If no properly
located “Y” branch is available, a saddle “Y” shall be installed at the
location specified by the Superintendent. The public sewer shall be tapped with
a tapping machine and a saddle appropriate to the type of public sewer shall be
glued or attached with a gasket and stainless steel clamps to the sewer. At no
time shall a building sewer be constructed so as to enter a manhole unless
special written permission is received from the Superintendent and in
accordance with the Superintendent’s direction if such connection is approved.
96.08   INSPECTION REQUIRED.
All connections with the sanitary sewer system before being covered shall be
inspected and approved, in writing, by the Superintendent. As soon as all pipe
work from the public sewer to inside the building has been completed, and
before any backfilling is done, the Superintendent shall be notified and the
Superintendent shall inspect and test the work as to workmanship and material;
no sewer pipe laid underground shall be covered or trenches filled until after
the sewer has been so inspected and approved. If the Superintendent refuses to
approve the work, the plumber or owner must proceed immediately to correct the
work.
96.09   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
96.10   ABANDONED CONNECTIONS.
When an existing building sewer is abandoned or is to be unused, it shall be
capped at the main.
96.11   ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
Construction or maintenance of building sewer lines, whether located upon the
private property of any owner or in the public right-of-way, which construction
or maintenance is in violation of any of the requirements of this chapter,
shall be corrected, at the owner’s expense, within 30 days after date of
official notice from the Council of such violation. If not made within such
time, the Council shall, in addition to the other penalties herein provided,
have the right to finish and correct the work and assess the cost thereof to
the property owner. Such assessment shall be collected with and in the same
manner as general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3])
CHAPTER 97
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
 
97.01 Stormwater               97.05 Restricted Discharges; Powers of
                               Superintendent
97.02 Surface Waters Exception 97.06 Special Facilities
97.03 Prohibited Discharges    97.07 Control Manholes
97.04 Restricted Discharges    97.08 Testing of Wastes
 
97.01   STORMWATER.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof run-off, sub-surface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers
that are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a
natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the Superintendent,
to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
97.02   SURFACE WATERS EXCEPTION.
Special permits for discharging surface waters to a public sanitary sewer may
be issued by the Council upon recommendation of the Superintendent where such
discharge is deemed necessary or advisable for purposes of flushing, but any
permit so issued shall be subject to revocation at any time when deemed to be
in the best interests of the sewer system.
97.03   PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
1.   Flammable or Explosive Material. Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil,
or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
2.   Toxic or Poisonous Materials. Any waters or wastes containing toxic or
poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or
create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant,
including but not limited to cyanides (CN) in excess of two milligrams per
liter as CN in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
3.   Corrosive Wastes. Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
4.   Solid or Viscous Substances. Solid or viscous substances in quantities or
of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not
limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
5.   Excessive B.O.D., Solids or Flow.
   A.   Any waters or wastes: (i) having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand
greater than 300 parts per million by weight; or (ii) containing more than 350
parts per million by weight of suspended solids; or (iii) having an average
daily flow greater than two percent of the average sewage flow of the City,
shall be subject to the review of the Superintendent.
   B.   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner shall
provide, at the owner’s expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to: (i) reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight; or (ii) reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
or (iii) control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes. Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent, and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
97.04   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances restricted are:
1.   High Temperature. Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than
150°F (65°C).
2.   Fat, Oil, Grease. Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or 600
milligrams per liter of dispersed or other soluble matter.
3.   Viscous Substances. Water or wastes containing substances that may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C to
65°C).
4.   Garbage. Any garbage that has not been properly shredded, that is, to such
a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions
normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half
inch in any dimension.
5.   Acids. Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solution, whether neutralized or not.
6.   Toxic or Objectionable Wastes. Any waters or wastes containing iron,
chromium, copper, zinc, and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or
wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such
material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials.
7.   Odor or Taste. Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or
odor producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits that may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of State, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
8.   Radioactive Wastes. Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life
or concentration as may exceed limits established by the in compliance with
applicable State or federal regulations.
9.   Excess Alkalinity. Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
10.   Unusual Wastes. Materials that exert or cause:
   A.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
   B.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
   C.   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
   D.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting “slugs”
as defined herein.
11.   Noxious or Malodorous Gases. Any noxious or malodorous gas or other
substance that, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, is capable
of creating a public nuisance or hazard to life or of preventing entry into
sewers for their maintenance and repair.
12.   Damaging Substances. Any waters, wastes, materials, or substances that
react with water or wastes in the sewer system to release noxious gases,
develop color of undesirable intensity, form suspended solids in objectionable
concentration, or create any other condition deleterious to structures and
treatment processes.
13.   Untreatable Wastes. Waters or wastes containing substances that are not
amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed,
or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment
plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
97.05   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES; POWERS OF SUPERINTENDENT.
If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the
public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in Section
97.04 and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
1.   Rejection. Reject the wastes by requiring disconnection from the public
sewage system.
2.   Pretreatment. Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for
discharge to the public sewers.
3.   Controls Imposed. Require control over the quantities and rates of
discharge.
4.   Special Charges. Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and
treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the
provisions of
Chapter 99.
97.06   SPECIAL FACILITIES.
If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws. Where preliminary treatment or
flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
the owner’s expense.
97.07   CONTROL MANHOLES.
When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at the owner’s
expense, and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
97.08   TESTING OF WASTES.
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids analyses are obtained
from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined from
periodic grab samples.)
CHAPTER 98
ON-SITE WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
 
98.01 When Prohibited             98.06 Maintenance of System
98.02 When Required               98.07 Systems Abandoned
98.03 Compliance with Regulations 98.08 Disposal of Septage
98.04 Permit Required             98.09 Minimum Lot Area
98.05 Discharge Restrictions
 
98.01   WHEN PROHIBITED.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.02   WHEN REQUIRED.
When a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of Section
95.05, every building wherein persons reside, congregate or are employed shall
be provided with an approved on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system
complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
98.03   COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system shall comply with the specifications and
requirements set forth by the Iowa Administrative Code 567, Chapter 69, and
with such additional requirements as are prescribed by the regulations of the
County Board of Health.
(567 IAC 69.1[3 and 4])
98.04   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall install or alter an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system without first obtaining a permit from the County Board of Health.
98.05   DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.
It is unlawful to discharge any wastewater from an on-site wastewater treatment
and disposal system (except under an NPDES permit) to any ditch, stream, pond,
lake, natural or artificial waterway, drain tile, or to the surface of the
ground.
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
98.06   MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
The owner of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system shall operate
and maintain the system in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to
the City.
98.07   SYSTEMS ABANDONED.
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by an on-
site wastewater treatment and disposal system, as provided in Section
95.05, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
these Sanitary Sewer chapters and the on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.08   DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE.
No person shall dispose of septage from an on-site treatment system at any
location except an approved disposal site.
98.09   MINIMUM LOT AREA.
No permit shall be issued for any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system employing sub-surface soil absorption facilities where the area of the
lot is less than 43,560 square feet.
CHAPTER 99
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
 
99.01 Sewer Service Charges Required 99.04 Payment of Bills
99.02 Special Rates                  99.05 Lien for Nonpayment
99.03 Private Water Systems          99.06 Special Agreements Permitted
 
99.01   SEWER SERVICE CHARGES REQUIRED.
Each customer shall pay sewer service charges for the use of and for the
service supplied by the municipal sanitary sewer system based upon the amount
of water consumed as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
 
Sewer Rates for Service
Cubic Feet Used Per Month Rate
First 150                 $24.12 (minimum bill)
All over 150              $0.1040 per cubic feet
 
Before the first of July each year, the City Administrator shall compute an
adjustment to the sewer rates based upon the multiplication of the current rate
by a factor equal to the increase in the Consumer Price Index (C.P.I.). This
adjustment shall be submitted to the Council. The City Administrator shall
annually, as part of the budget preparation, review the adequacy of the rates
and make recommendation to the Council concerning the need for any changes. The
rate increase shall go into effect on the July billing. 1
(Section 99.01 – Ord. 2024-02OR – Oct. 24 Supp.)
 
Notes
  EDITOR’S NOTE:  Ordinance No. 2023-02OR was adopted by the City Council on
1 July 5, 2023 with an effective date stating that “the rates will be applied
  to the August 15, 2023, readings and August 31, 2023, billings.”
99.02   SPECIAL RATES.
Where, in the judgment of the Mayor and the Council, special conditions exist
to the extent that the application of the sewer charges provided in Section
99.01 would be inequitable or unfair to either the City or the customer, a
special rate shall be proposed by the City Administrator and submitted to the
Council for approval by resolution.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.03   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS.
Customers whose premises are served by a private water system shall pay sewer
charges based upon the water used as determined by the City either by an
estimate agreed to by the customer or by metering the water system at the
customer’s expense. Any negotiated or agreed-upon sales or charges shall be
subject to approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.04   PAYMENT OF BILLS.
All sewer service charges are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section
92.04 of this Code of Ordinances. Sewer service may be discontinued or
disconnected in accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
99.05   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.07 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof shall be jointly and severally liable for sewer
service charges to the premises. Sewer service charges remaining unpaid and
delinquent shall constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and
shall be certified by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the
same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.06   SPECIAL AGREEMENTS PERMITTED.
No statement in these chapters shall be construed as preventing a special
agreement, arrangement, or contract between the Council, and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted subject to special conditions, rate, and cost as established by the
Council.
CHAPTER 100
DISCHARGE OF STORMWATER INTO PUBLIC SEWERS
 
100.01 Purpose                  100.06 Abatement of Violations
100.02 Testing Procedures       100.07 Service Disconnection
100.03 Inspection Authorization 100.08 Owner/Occupant Responsibility
100.04 Violations               100.09 City Grants
100.05 Sump Pump Exceptions
 
100.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to set forth the procedures, including
incentives, that will be used to enforce the provisions of Section
97.01 of this Code of Ordinances which prohibits the discharge of stormwater
into the public sewer system.
100.02   TESTING PROCEDURES.
The Superintendent is authorized and directed to cause “smoke tests,” “dye
tests,” “TV monitor tests,” or any combination of such tests to be conducted
within any area subject to surcharging and any area that may contribute to
surcharging in order to locate conditions which would permit stormwater,
surface water, or ground water drainage to enter a building sanitary drain,
building sanitary sewer, or public sanitary sewer, or if the exact location of
such conditions cannot be determined, to at least determine if, during such
tests, water or dye placed in or on any such premises or in any stormwater
collection or diversion device located on such premises, reaches the public
sanitary sewer or if smoke pumped into the public sanitary sewer emerges from
locations on private property. The testing shall be paid for by the City.
100.03   INSPECTION AUTHORIZATION.
1.   The Superintendent is authorized and directed to cause an inspection of
the plumbing fixtures and facilities, down spouts, sump pumps, building drains,
building sewers, yard drains, area drains and building or lot stormwater,
surface water or ground water drainage devices located on or used by premises
located in the City, in an effort to locate conditions which would permit
stormwater, surface water or ground water drainage to enter directly or
indirectly the public sanitary sewer. In certain cases, an inspection may
require more than one entry to the premises.
2.   The Superintendent shall notify the owner and occupant of a premises that
the City desires to inspect the premises for the purposes set forth in this
chapter. Notification shall be by personal contact or by written notice sent by
first class mail. In those cases where an owner does not reside in the premises
or within the corporate limits of the City, the owner shall be notified by
first class mail. Notification by mail shall be sufficient and complete upon
deposit in the U.S. mail, postage prepaid, in an envelope addressed to the
recipient's last known address.
3.   The owner, and the occupant (if the owner does not reside on the
premises), shall have 30 days from the date of notification in which to give
voluntary consent to the inspection and to allow the inspection. Refusal to
allow inspection shall be deemed to have occurred in the following events:
   A.   When upon request for inspection by the City employee, the owner or
occupant gives a verbal statement denying entrance to the premises or
physically restricts the City employee from entering the premises.
   B.   When there is no response to the mailed notice by the owner, or by the
occupant (in those cases where an owner does not reside in the premises),
within 30 days of the date the City has mailed the written notice.
4.   Each owner and occupant of a premises shall provide access in the premises
to allow the inspection. Access for the purposes of this chapter shall include
providing unobstructed physical access to all portions of the premises and
providing a cleanout to allow entrance into sewer pipes on the premises. The
owner or occupant must also remove any obstructions that prevent access to a
cleanout. The Superintendent shall notify the owner, and the occupant (in those
cases where an owner does not reside in the premises), of the existence of any
condition which the Superintendent believes may constitute a failure to provide
an adequate unobstructed cleanout.
5.   If the City is unable to secure the consent of the owner, and of the
occupant (in those cases where an owner does not reside in the premises), of
the premises to conduct the inspection or to provide proper access, then the
City Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to seek judicial authorization
for the City to enter the premises and conduct the inspection and/or provide
access.
100.04   VIOLATIONS.
1.   After the City has inspected the premises, the Superintendent shall notify
the owner, and the occupant (in those cases where an owner does not reside in
the premises), of the results of the inspection. If the inspection reveals a
violation of Section
97.01, the owner shall have the following periods to correct the violations:
   A.   If a sump pump is hooked into the sanitary sewer, it shall be
permanently unhooked within 10 days of such notice.
   B.   If a perimeter tile or any other source of surface water or groundwater
is hooked into the sanitary sewer, then all such tiles and sources shall be
disconnected within one year of the date of such notice.
2.   The time limits set forth in this section are deemed to be critical to the
procedures set forth herein, and to the orderly elimination of the problems
cited herein. Therefore, no extensions to the time limits will be allowed, and
failure to comply with same shall cause an owner to lose the grant incentive
referred to in Section
100.09.
3.   With respect to the requirement of disconnecting perimeter tiles or other
sources, all such work shall be done in accordance with all City regulations.
The owner and occupant shall allow the City to inspect all work to ensure that
it has been done in conformity with such regulations.
100.05   SUMP PUMP EXCEPTIONS.
1.   The Superintendent may grant a special, limited permit to allow
discharging of groundwater into a building sewer or building drain which is
connected to a public sanitary sewer. This permit will apply only during the
period from November 15 through March 15 each year, and only if all of the
following conditions are met:
   A.   The building or other structure from which the discharge occurs
regularly and consistently experiences an influx of groundwater throughout the
period of November 15 through March 15, sufficient to create flooding of the
building or structure if the water is not removed.
   B.   The discharge of groundwater into the building sewer or building drain
occurs through the mechanism of a sump pump.
   C.   The water cannot be discharged outside of the building or structure
without creating a serious hazard and risk to the public safety from ice
accumulations on City streets or sidewalks.
   D.   The owner of the premises submits a written application for the permit,
explaining the need therefor, and providing the names, addresses and phone
numbers of at least two persons who have personal knowledge of the influx of
water into the premises during the winter months and can confirm the need for
the special permit.
   E.   The applicant pays a non-refundable $30.00 fee with the application.
   F.   The owner, at his or her own expense, purchases, installs and maintains
in good working order a valve with a lock-out tag, of a type acceptable to the
Superintendent, and purchases from the Superintendent a uniform padlock (to be
provided at the City's cost plus shipping), so that groundwater from the sump
pump can be diverted through the lock-out valve away from the building sewers
and drains, to an acceptable discharge point outside of the building or
structure.
   G.   The owner and the occupant (in those cases where an owner does not
reside in the premises), give voluntary consent and allow the Superintendent to
enter the premises upon request for the following purposes:
      (1)   To inspect the premises to determine whether a permit should be
granted.
      (2)   To inspect the premises to determine ongoing need for the permit
and confirm compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   To install and remove the padlock on the lockout valve at the
beginning and ending of each winter permit period.
   H.   The owner and occupant do not tamper with or alter the padlock or lock-
out valve, and discharge water into the system only during the winter permit
period.
2.   The Superintendent shall inspect the premises and notify the owner, and
the occupant (in those cases where an owner does not reside in the premises),
of a time and place where they may be heard on the matter of granting the
permit. Upon hearing, the Superintendent may grant or deny the permit.
3.   The Superintendent may revoke a permit following notice and opportunity
for hearing, if at any time the conditions no longer warrant the permit or the
requirements of this chapter are not met. If the permit is revoked, the owner,
at his own expense, shall remove the lock-out valve and replace it with a
permanent pipe which bypasses the sanitary sewer system.
100.06   ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
A violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a nuisance, and
the same may be abated by the City in the manner provided for the abatement of
nuisances as outlined in Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
100.07   SERVICE DISCONNECTION.
In the event an owner, or an occupant (in those cases where an owner does not
reside in the premises), fails or refuses to provide access, fails or refuses
to complete all corrective action, or otherwise fails or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter, the City shall have the right to
terminate water service and sewer service to the premises. Water service and
sewer service shall remain terminated as long as such failure or refusal
persists. The owner shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss or
damage occasioned the City by reason of such failure or refusal.
100.08   OWNER/OCCUPANT RESPONSIBILITY.
1.   In certain cases the occupant of the premises will not be the owner of the
premises. Notice of actions required by this chapter will be given to the owner
of the premises. It shall be the responsibility of the owner to secure the
consent and cooperation of all occupants for all procedures required by this
chapter, and if the owner does not or is unable to secure for any reason
whatsoever the consent and cooperation of all occupants of a premises as to any
procedure, then the owner shall be subject to all remedies provided for in this
chapter.
2.   Owner is used in the singular in this chapter. Where there is more than
one owner of a premises, notice need be given to only one owner, and consent
may be obtained from one owner only. Occupant is used in the singular in this
chapter. Notice or consent need be given to or obtained from only one occupant
in those cases where an owner does not reside in the premises. (This is in
addition to the notice and consent required by an owner.)
100.09   CITY GRANTS.
1.   Grant Incentive. The owner of a premises shall be eligible to receive a
grant of the lesser of $500.00 or the reasonable costs of unhooking the
perimeter tile or other source of surface water or groundwater from the
sanitary sewer (except sump pumps), if all of the following conditions are met:
   A.   An owner, or the occupant (in those cases where an owner does not
reside in the premises), have voluntarily provided access to the premises.
   B.   An owner, and the occupant (in those cases where an owner does not
reside in the premises), have voluntarily consented to and allowed an
inspection of the premises within the time frame set forth in Section
100.03.
   C.   The owner has disconnected the perimeter tile or other source within
the time-limits prescribed in Section
100.04. (There is no grant incentive for disconnecting a sump pump.)
   D.   The owner submits to the City Administrator a written request for the
grant and copies of the bills for actual costs incurred in disconnecting the
tile or other source, within six months of completion of the work.
2.   Ineligibility for Grant. An owner shall be ineligible to receive a grant
if the owner or the occupant (in those cases where an owner does not reside in
the premises) have done any of the following:
   A.   Failed to voluntarily provide access or remove any obstruction to
access.
   B.   Failed to consent to and allow inspection of the premises within the
time period set forth in Section
100.03. Failure to allow inspection includes withholding of consent by an
occupant of the premises in those cases where an owner does not reside in the
premises.
   C.   Failed to complete all corrective action within the time period set
forth in Section
100.04.
   D.   Failed to comply with any other provisions of this chapter.
CHAPTER 101
STORMWATER DRAINAGE UTILITY
 
101.01 Purpose                             101.06 Use of Fund
101.02 Definitions                         101.07 Governing Board
101.03 Stormwater Drainage System District 101.08 Payment of Bills
Established
101.04 Rates Categories                    101.09 Lien for Nonpayment
101.05 Rates
 
101.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish a Stormwater Utility and provide a
means of funding the construction, operation, and maintenance of stormwater
management facilities, including (but not limited to) detention and retention
basins, stormwater sewers, inlets, ditches, and drains, and cleaning of
streets. The Council finds that the construction, operation, and maintenance of
the City’s storm and surface water drainage system should be funded through
charging users of property which may connect or discharge, directly or
indirectly, into the storm and surface water drainage system.
101.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use on this chapter, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise,
the following terms are defined:
1.   “Connection” means the physical act or process of tapping a public
stormwater sewer or drainage line, or joining onto an existing side sewer, for
the purpose of connecting private impervious surface or other storm and surface
water sources or systems to the public storm and surface water system. It also
includes creation or maintenance of impervious surface that causes or is likely
to cause an increase in the quantity or decrease in quality or both from
natural state of stormwater runoff, and which drains, directly or indirectly,
to the storm and surface water system.
2.   “Customer” means, in addition to any person receiving stormwater service
from the City, the owner of the property served, and as between such parties
the duties, responsibilities, liabilities, and obligations hereinafter imposed
shall be joint and several.
3.   “Storm and surface water drainage system” means any combination of
publicly owned storm and surface water quantity and quality facilities,
pumping, or lift facilities, storm and secondary drain pipes and culverts, open
channels, creeks and ditches, force mains, laterals, manholes, catch basins and
inlets, including the grates and covers thereof, detention and retention
facilities, laboratory facilities and equipment, and other publicly owned
facilities for the collection, conveyance, treatment, and disposal of storm and
surface water system within the City, to which sanitary sewage flows are not
intentionally admitted.
4.   “User” means any person who uses property that maintains connection to,
discharges to, or otherwise receives services from the City for stormwater
management. An occupant who receives services from the City for stormwater
management is deemed the user. If the property is not occupied, the person who
has the right to occupy it is deemed the user.
101.03   STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM DISTRICT ESTABLISHED.
Pursuant to the authority of Section 384.84(5) of the Code of Iowa, the entire
City is hereby declared a Stormwater Drainage System District for the purpose
of establishing, imposing, adjusting, and providing for the collection of rates
for the operation and maintenance of stormwater management facilities. The
entire City, as increased from time to time by annexation, shall constitute a
single Stormwater Drainage System District.
101.04   RATES CATEGORIES.
Billing rates are divided into categories, as follows:
1.   Residential: single-family residential and duplex family dwelling units
used for residential (i.e., non-commercial) purposes.
2.   Commercial: triplex and multi-family dwelling units (including
condominiums, apartment units, and town homes).
3.   Commercial and Industrial Uses:
   A.   Small: commercial (including not-for-profit commercial users) with less
than a 7,000 square foot impervious coverage area.
   B.   Medium: commercial (including not-for-profit commercial users) with
more than 7,000 and less than a 30,000 square foot impervious coverage area.
   C.   Large: commercial (including not-for-profit commercial users) with more
than a 30,000 square foot impervious coverage area.
Triplex and multi-family dwelling units shall pay the applicable commercial
rate, but the residential rate shall not be imposed on individual dwelling
units. Square footage is determined by adding the square footage of both
contiguous and noncontiguous impervious coverage areas together to measure the
total square footage of impervious coverage areas on the property.
101.05   RATES.
The billing rates are as follows:
 
Category            Monthly Rate
Residential         $2.00
Commercial – Small$4.00
Commercial – Mediu$10.00
Commercial – Large$20.00
 
101.06   USE OF FUND.
The money paid and collected pursuant to this chapter shall be held by the City
in a special fund to be expended only for the purpose of constructing,
operating, managing, repairing, and maintaining all kinds of conduits, drains,
stormwater detention devices, flow impediments, ponds, ditches, sloughs, filter
strips, rip-raps, erosion control devices, and any other things and activities
useful to the proper control management, collection, drainage, and disposition
of stormwater in the City.
101.07   GOVERNING BOARD.
The governing board of the Stormwater Drainage Utility is the City Council. The
Stormwater Drainage Utility shall be under the direction, management, and
control of the City Administrator, who shall function as its Director. In that
capacity, the Director shall supervise the day-to-day operation of the
Stormwater Drainage Utility, shall enforce this chapter and the provisions of
all ordinances and regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter and shall carry
out the policy directives of the Council acting in its role as governing body
of the Stormwater Drainage Utility.
101.08   PAYMENT OF BILLS.
All stormwater service charges are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section
92.04 of this Code of Ordinances. Stormwater service may be discontinued or
disconnected in accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
101.09   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.07 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof shall be jointly and severally liable for stormwater
service charges to the premises. Stormwater service charges remaining unpaid
and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and
shall be certified by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the
same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
CHAPTER 105
SOLID WASTE CONTROL
 
105.01 Purpose                           105.07 Littering Prohibited
105.02 Definitions                       105.08 Toxic and Hazardous Waste
105.03 Sanitary Disposal Required        105.09 Waste Storage Containers
105.04 Health and Fire Hazard            105.10 Prohibited Practices
105.05 Open Burning Restricted           105.11 Recycling Program
105.06 Separation of Yard Waste Required
 
105.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters in this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Solid
Waste Control and Collection is to provide for the sanitary storage,
collection, and disposal of solid waste and, thereby, to protect the citizens
of the City from such hazards to their health, safety, and welfare as may
result from the uncontrolled disposal of solid waste.
105.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters the following terms are defined:
1.   “Collector” means any person authorized to gather solid waste from public
and private places.
2.   “Discard” means to place, cause to be placed, throw, deposit, or drop.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[1])
3.   “Dwelling unit” means any room or group of rooms located within a
structure and forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used or
are intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
4.   “Garbage” means all solid and semisolid, putrescible animal and vegetable
waste resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing, serving, and
consuming of food or of material intended for use as food, and all offal,
excluding useful industrial by-products, and includes all such substances from
all public and private establishments and from all residences.
(567 IAC 100.2)
5.   “Landscape waste” means any vegetable or plant waste except garbage. The
term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves,
grass, shrubbery, and yard trimmings.
(567 IAC 20.2)
6.   “Litter” means any garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, waste materials, or
debris not exceeding 10 pounds in weight or 15 cubic feet in volume. Litter
includes but is not limited to empty beverage containers, cigarette butts, food
waste packaging, other food or candy wrappers, handbills, empty cartons, or
boxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[2])
7.   “Owner” means, in addition to the record titleholder, any person residing
in, renting, leasing, occupying, operating, or transacting business in any
premises, and as between such parties the duties, responsibilities,
liabilities, and obligations hereinafter imposed shall be joint and several.
8.   “Refuse” means putrescible and non-putrescible waste, including but not
limited to garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator residues, street cleanings,
market and industrial solid waste, and sewage treatment waste in dry or
semisolid form.
(567 IAC 100.2)
9.   “Residential premises” means a single-family dwelling and any multiple-
family dwelling up to and including eight separate dwelling units.
10.   “Residential waste” means any refuse generated on the premises as a
result of residential activities. The term includes landscape waste grown on
the premises or deposited thereon by the elements, but excludes garbage, tires,
trade wastes, and any locally recyclable goods or plastics.
(567 IAC 20.2)
11.   “Rubbish” means non-putrescible solid waste consisting of combustible and
non-combustible waste, such as ashes, paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, or litter of any kind.
(567 IAC 100.2)
12.   “Sanitary disposal” means a method of treating solid waste so that it
does not produce a hazard to the public health or safety or create a nuisance.
(567 IAC 100.2)
13.   “Sanitary disposal project” means all facilities and appurtenances
(including all real and personal property connected with such facilities) that
are acquired, purchased, constructed, reconstructed, equipped, improved,
extended, maintained, or operated to facilitate the final disposition of solid
waste without creating a significant hazard to the public health or safety, and
which are approved by the Director of the State Department of Natural
Resources. “Sanitary disposal project” does not include a pyrolysis or
gasification facility as defined in Section 455B.301 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
14.   “Solid waste” means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar discarded
solid or semisolid materials, including but not limited to such materials
resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic activities.
Solid waste may include vehicles, as defined by Section 321.1 of the Code of
Iowa. Solid waste does not include any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
   A.   Hazardous waste regulated under the Federal Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6921-6934.
   B.   Hazardous waste as defined in Section 455B.411 of the Code of Iowa,
except to the extent that rules allowing for the disposal of specific wastes
have been adopted by the State Environmental Protection Commission.
   C.   Source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined in the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended to January 1, 1979.
   D.   Petroleum contaminated soil that has been remediated to acceptable
State or federal standards.
   E.   Steel slag which is a product resulting from the steel manufacturing
process and is managed as an item of value in a controlled manner and not as a
discarded material.
   F.   Material that is legitimately recycled pursuant to Section 455D.4A of
the Code of Iowa.
   G.   Post-use polymers or recoverable feedstocks that are any of the
following:
      (1)   Processed at a pyrolysis or gasification facility.
      (2)   Held at a pyrolysis or gasification facility prior to processing to
ensure production is not interrupted.
15.   “Toxic and hazardous waste” means waste materials, including (but not
limited to) poisons, pesticides, herbicides, acids, caustics, pathological
waste, flammable or explosive materials, and similar harmful waste that
requires special handling and that must be disposed of in such a manner as to
conserve the environment and protect the public health and safety.
(567 IAC 100.2)
16.   “Yard waste” means any debris such as grass clippings, leaves, garden
waste, brush, and trees. Yard waste does not include tree stumps.
105.03   SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
It is the duty of each owner to provide for the sanitary disposal of all refuse
accumulating on the owner’s premises before it becomes a nuisance. Any such
accumulation remaining on any premises for a period of more than 30 days shall
be deemed a nuisance and the City may proceed to abate such nuisances in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 50 or by initiating proper action in district court.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 657)
105.04   HEALTH AND FIRE HAZARD.
It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any premises, improved
or vacant, or on any public place, such quantities of solid waste that
constitute a health, sanitation or fire hazard.
105.05   OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED.
No person shall allow, cause, or permit open burning of combustible materials
where the products of combustion are emitted into the open air without passing
through a chimney or stack, except that open burning is permitted in the
following circumstances:
(567 IAC 23.2 and 100.2)
1.   Disaster Rubbish. The open burning of rubbish, including landscape waste,
for the duration of the community disaster period in cases where an officially
declared emergency condition exists, provided that the burning of any
structures or demolished structures is conducted in accordance with 40 CFR
Section 61.145.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“a”)
2.   Trees and Tree Trimmings. The open burning of trees and tree trimmings at
a City-operated burning site, provided such burning is conducted in compliance
with the rules established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“b”)
3.   Flare Stacks. The open burning or flaring of waste gases, provided such
open burning or flaring is conducted in compliance with applicable rules of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“c”)
4.   Landscape Waste. The disposal by open burning of landscape waste
originating on the premises. The burning may be conducted only on Monday,
Thursday, and Saturday between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. and must be completed
and extinguished by 6:00 p.m.. However, the burning of landscape waste produced
in clearing, grubbing, and constructions operation shall be limited to areas
located at least one-fourth mile from any building inhabited by other than the
landowner or tenant conducting the open burning. Rubber tires shall not be used
to ignite landscape waste.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“d”)
5.   Recreational Fires. Open fires for cooking, heating, recreation, and
ceremonies, provided they comply with the limits for emission of visible air
contaminants established by the State Department of Natural Resources. Rubber
tires shall not be burned in a recreational fire.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“e”)
6.   Training Fires. Fires set for the purpose of conducting bona fide training
of public or industrial employees in firefighting methods, provided that the
training fires are conducted in compliance with rules established by the State
Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“g”)
7.   Pesticide Containers and Seed Corn Bags. The disposal by open burning of
paper or plastic pesticide containers (except those formerly containing organic
forms of beryllium, selenium, mercury, lead, cadmium, or arsenic) and seed corn
bags resulting from farming activities occurring on the premises if burned in
accordance with rules established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“h”)
8.   Agricultural Structures. The open burning of agricultural structures if in
accordance with rules and limitations established by the State Department of
Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“i”])
9.   Controlled Burning of a Demolished Building. The controlled burning of a
demolished building by the City, subject to approval of the Council, provided
that the controlled burning is conducted in accordance with rules and
limitations established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“j”)
10.   Variance. Any person wishing to conduct open burning of materials not
permitted herein may make application for a variance to the Director of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[2])
105.06   SEPARATION OF YARD WASTE REQUIRED.
All yard waste shall be separated by the owner or occupant from all other solid
waste accumulated on the premises and shall be composted or burned on the
premises or deposited at the City’s yard waste or burn site.
105.07   LITTERING PROHIBITED.
No person shall discard any litter onto or in any water or land, except that
nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authorized collection
and discarding of such litter in or on areas or receptacles provided for such
purpose. When litter is discarded from a motor vehicle, the driver of the motor
vehicle shall be responsible for the act in any case where doubt exists as to
which occupant of the motor vehicle actually discarded the litter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.363)
105.08   TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS WASTE.
No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for
collection any toxic or hazardous waste. Such materials shall be transported
and disposed of as prescribed by the Director of the State Department of
Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 100.2)
(567 IAC 102.13[2] and 400 IAC 27.14[2])
105.09   WASTE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing, or renting any premises,
dwelling unit or any place where refuse accumulates shall provide and at all
times maintain in good order and repair portable containers for refuse in
accordance with the following:
1.   Container Specifications. Waste storage containers shall comply with the
following specifications:
   A.   Residential. Residential solid waste must be placed in disposable City
garbage bags. Such bags shall be securely fastened and may be placed in
reusable containers which shall be lightweight and of sturdy construction and
have suitable lifting devices. The weight of any bag shall not exceed 40
pounds.
   B.   Commercial. Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing, or
renting any commercial premises where an excessive amount of refuse accumulates
and where its storage in portable containers as required above is impractical,
shall maintain metal bulk storage containers approved by the City.
2.   Storage of Containers. Residential solid waste containers shall be stored
upon the residential premises. Commercial solid waste containers shall be
stored upon private property, unless the owner has been granted written
permission from the City to use public property for such purposes. The storage
site shall be well drained and fully accessible to collection equipment, public
health personnel, and fire inspection personnel. All owners of residential and
commercial premises shall be responsible for proper storage of all garbage and
yard waste to prevent materials from being blown or scattered around
neighboring yards and streets.
3.   Location of Containers for Collection. Containers for the storage of solid
waste awaiting collection shall be placed at the curb line or other such place
as specified by the collector by the owner or occupant of the premises served.
Containers or other solid waste placed at the curb line shall not be so placed
more than 12 hours in advance of the regularly scheduled collection day and
shall be removed within 24 hours following collection.
4.   Nonconforming Containers. Solid waste placed in containers that are not in
compliance with the provisions of this section will not be collected.
105.10   PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
It is unlawful for any person to:
1.   Unlawful Use of Containers. Deposit refuse in any solid waste containers
not owned by such person without the written consent of the owner of such
containers.
2.   Interfere with Collectors. Interfere in any manner with solid waste
collection equipment or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance
of their duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors be those of the
City, or those of any other authorized waste collection service.
3.   Incinerators. Burn rubbish or garbage except in incinerators designed for
high temperature operation, in which solid, semisolid, liquid, or gaseous
combustible refuse is ignited and burned efficiently, and from which the solid
residues contain little or no combustible material, as acceptable to the
Environmental Protection Commission.
4.   Scavenging. Take or collect any solid waste that has been placed out for
collection on any premises, unless such person is an authorized solid waste
collector.
105.11   RECYCLING PROGRAM.
The City shall provide for the collection of recyclable material in accordance
with the provisions of the contract between the City and the collector. All
recyclable material shall be separated and prepared for collection in
accordance with the rules and regulations as established by the collector.
Recyclable material may also be taken to the City’s recycling drop off site.
CHAPTER 106
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
 
106.01 Collection Service      106.06 Right of Entry
106.02 Collection Vehicles     106.07 Contract Requirements
106.03 Loading                 106.08 Collection Fees
106.04 Frequency of Collection 106.09 Lien for Nonpayment
106.05 Bulky Rubbish
 
106.01   COLLECTION SERVICE.
The City shall provide by contract for the collection of solid waste, except
bulky rubbish as provided in Section
106.05, from residential premises only. The owners or operators of commercial,
industrial, or institutional premises shall provide for the collection of solid
waste produced upon such premises.
106.02   COLLECTION VEHICLES.
Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of garbage
and similar putrescible waste or solid waste containing such materials shall be
leak-proof, durable, and of easily cleanable construction. They shall be
cleaned to prevent nuisances, pollution, or insect breeding and shall be
maintained in good repair.
(567 IAC 104.9)
106.03   LOADING.
Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of any solid
waste shall be loaded and moved in such a manner that the contents will not
fall, leak, or spill therefrom, and shall be covered to prevent blowing or loss
of material. Where spillage does occur, the material shall be picked up
immediately by the collector or transporter and returned to the vehicle or
container and the area properly cleaned.
106.04   FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
All solid waste shall be collected from residential premises at least once each
week and from commercial, industrial, residential dumpster, and institutional
premises as frequently as may be necessary, but not less than once each
week.   
(Section 106.04 – Ord. 2024-01O – Oct. 24 Supp.)
106.05   BULKY RUBBISH.
Bulky rubbish that is too large or heavy to be collected in the normal manner
of other solid waste may be collected by the collector upon request.
106.06   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
Solid waste collectors are hereby authorized to enter upon private property for
the purpose of collecting solid waste, as required by this chapter; however,
solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling units or other residential
buildings.
106.07   CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.
No person shall engage in the business of collecting, transporting, processing
or disposing of solid waste from residential premises for the City without
first entering into a contract with the City. This section does not prohibit an
owner from transporting solid waste accumulating upon premises owned, occupied,
or used by such owner, provided such refuse is disposed of properly in an
approved sanitary disposal project. Furthermore, a contract is not required for
the removal, hauling, or disposal of earth and rock material from grading or
excavation activities, provided that all such materials are conveyed in tight
vehicles, trucks or receptacles so constructed and maintained that none of the
material being transported is spilled upon any public right-of-way.
106.08   COLLECTION FEES.
The collection and disposal of solid waste as provided by this chapter are
declared to be beneficial to the property served or eligible to be served and
there shall be levied and collected fees for the same, in accordance with the
following:
(Goreham vs. Des Moines, 1970, 179 NW 2nd, 449 [Iowa 1970])
1.   Schedule of Fees. The fees for solid waste collection and disposal
service, used or available, are:
   A.   Residential Fees. For each residential premises and for each dwelling
unit of a multiple-family dwelling – $7.00 per month plus $3.00 per month for
recycling. Provided, however, non-profit housing complexes with eight or fewer
dwelling units shall be billed as one dwelling unit for the entire complex. No
exemption shall be made for temporary absences as long as household furnishings
remain in the residence.
   B.   Commercial Fees. Each commercial, industrial, or institutional premises
with an active water service account shall pay a recycling fee of $3.00 per
month.
2.   Payment of Bills. All fees are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section
92.04 of this Code of Ordinances. Solid waste collection service may be
discontinued in accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
The City Administrator shall annually, as part of the budget preparation,
review the adequacy of the rates and make recommendation to the Council
concerning the need for any changes. If the rate needs to be adjusted a new
ordinance must be established.
106.09   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.07 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof are jointly and severally liable for fees for solid
waste collection and disposal. Fees remaining unpaid and delinquent shall
constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and shall be certified
by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as
property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
CHAPTER 107
CITY YARD WASTE AND BURN SITE
 
107.01 Purpose              107.04 Hours
107.02 Acceptable Materials 107.05 Fires
107.03 Prohibited Materials 107.06 Rules
 
107.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide regulations regarding the use of the
City yard waste site and the City burn site and to identify materials that are
acceptable and unacceptable for deposit at either site.
107.02   ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS.
1.   Yard Waste Site. The following materials may be deposited at the City yard
waste site:
   A.   Leaves.
   B.   Grass clippings.
   C.   Garden waste.
2.   Burn Site. The following materials may be deposited at the City burn site:
   A.   Trees and tree trimmings.
   B.   Bushes and bush trimmings.
107.03   PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
It is unlawful for any person to place or deposit or permit to be placed or
deposited at the City yard waste site or at the City burn site any materials
other than those specifically authorized for the respective sites under Section
107.02 of this chapter. Materials prohibited at both sites include (but are not
limited to) tires, batteries, appliances, wire, boards, lumber, construction
waste, metal, glass, plastic, plastic bags, paper, paper bags, food and food
products, garbage, and any other natural or processed materials not
specifically identified in Section
107.02.
107.04   HOURS.
It is unlawful for any person to deposit materials at the City yard waste site
or City burn site other than during the hours when the sites are open to the
public pursuant to City Council resolution. The City Superintendent shall have
authority to schedule special appointments for depositing materials during
hours when the sites are otherwise closed.
107.05   FIRES.
It is unlawful for any person, other than the City Superintendent, to light
fires at the City burn site or City yard waste site.
107.06   RULES.
The City Superintendent shall have the power to make such additional rules and
regulations pertaining to use of the City yard waste site and City burn site as
do not conflict with this chapter.
CHAPTER 110
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
 
110.01 Grant of Franchise   110.05 Nonexclusive Franchise
110.02 Indemnification      110.06 Term of Franchise
110.03 Excavations          110.07 Amendments
110.04 Standards of Service
 
110.01   GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
There is hereby granted to Interstate Power and Light Company, hereinafter
referred to as the “Company,” its successors, and assigns, the right,
franchise, and privilege for the term of 25 years, subject to a limited right
of cancellation at the end of the tenth, fifteenth, and twentieth anniversaries
of the anniversary date, as defined in this chapter, from and after the
passage, adoption, approval, and acceptance of the ordinance codified in this
chapter,† 4  to lay down, maintain, and operate the necessary pipes, mains, and
other conductors and appliances in, along, and under the streets, avenues,
alleys, and public places in the City, as now or hereafter constituted, for the
purpose of distributing, supplying, and selling gas to the City and the
residents thereof and to persons and corporations beyond the limits thereof,
and also includes the right of eminent domain as provided in Section 364.2 of
the Code of Iowa. The term “gas” as used in this franchise shall be construed
to mean natural gas only.
 
Notes
4 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 46 adopting a natural gas franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted by the Council in 2002.
110.02   INDEMNIFICATION.
The mains and pipe of the Company must be so placed as not to unnecessarily
interfere with water pipes, drains, sewers, and fire plugs which have been or
may hereafter be placed in any street, alley, and public places in said City or
unnecessarily interfere with the proper use of the same, including ordinary
drainage, or with the sewers, underground pipe, and other property of the City,
and the said Company, its successors and assigns shall hold the City free and
harmless from all damages arising from the negligent acts or omissions of the
Company in the laying down, operation, and maintenance of said natural gas
distribution system.
110.03   EXCAVATIONS.
In making any excavations in any street, alley, avenue, or public place, the
Company, its successors, and assigns, shall protect the site while work is in
progress by guards, barriers or signals, shall not unnecessarily obstruct the
use of the streets, shall back fill all openings in such manner as to prevent
settling or depressions in surface, and shall replace the surface, pavement, or
sidewalk of such excavations with same materials, restoring the condition as
nearly as practical and if defects are caused shall repair the same.
110.04   STANDARDS OF SERVICE.
Said Company, its successors, and assigns, shall throughout the term of the
franchise distribute to all consumers gas of good quality and shall furnish
uninterrupted service, except as interruptible service may be specifically
contracted for with consumers; provided, however, any prevention of service
caused by fire, act of God, or unavoidable event or accident shall not be a
breach of this condition if the Company resumes service as quickly as is
reasonably practical after the happening of the act causing the interruption.
110.05   NONEXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE.
The franchise granted by this chapter shall not be exclusive.
110.06   TERM OF FRANCHISE.
The term of the franchise granted by this chapter and the rights granted
hereunder shall continue for the period of 25 years from and after its
acceptance by the said Company, as herein provided. The City may cancel the
franchise on the tenth, fifteenth, or twentieth anniversary of the anniversary
date of the franchise by notifying Company in writing of its desire to do so,
said notification to be given within 30 days of the tenth, fifteenth, or
twentieth anniversary of the franchise. If Company is not notified of the
cancellation by the tenth, fifteenth, or twentieth anniversary, then the
franchise shall continue without cancellation until the twenty-fifth year. The
anniversary date shall be the date the franchise is filed with the City Clerk
or is otherwise effective by operation of law.
110.07   AMENDMENTS.
This chapter sets forth and constitutes the entire agreement between the
Company and the City with respect to the rights contained herein, and may not
be superseded, modified, or otherwise amended without the approval and
acceptance of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the
City enact any ordinance or place any limitations, either operationally or
through the assessment of fees, that create additional burdens upon the
Company, or which delay utility operations.
CHAPTER 111
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
 
111.01 Franchise Granted       111.05 Nonexclusive Franchise
111.02 Placement of Facilities 111.06 No Interruption of Service
111.03 Meters                  111.07 Term of Franchise
111.04 Quality of System       111.08 Amendments
 
111.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
There is hereby granted unto Interstate Power and Light Company, hereinafter
referred to as the “Company,” its successors, and assigns, the right and
franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain, and operate in the City works
and plants for the manufacture and generation of electricity and a distribution
system for electric light, heat, and power and the right to erect and maintain
the necessary poles, lines, wires, conduits, and other appliances for the
transmission of electric current along, under, and upon the streets, avenues,
alleys, and public places in the City, and also includes the right to erect and
maintain upon the streets, avenues, alleys, and public places transmission
lines through the City, to supply individuals, corporations, communities, and
municipalities both inside and outside of the City with electric light, heat,
and power for the period of 25 years,† 5  subject to a limited right of
cancellation at the end of the tenth, fifteenth, and twentieth anniversaries of
the anniversary date as defined herein, and also includes the right of eminent
domain as provided in Section 364.2 of the Code of Iowa. 
 
Notes
5 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 47, adopting an electric franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted by the Council in 2002.
111.02   PLACEMENT OF FACILITIES.
The poles, wires, and appliances shall be placed and maintained so as not to
unnecessarily interfere with the travel on said streets, alleys, and public
places in the City or unnecessarily interfere with the proper use of the same,
including ordinary drainage, or with the sewers, underground pipe, and other
property of the City, and the said Company, its successors, and assigns shall
hold the City free and harmless from all damages arising from the negligent
acts or omissions of the Company in the erection or maintenance of said system.
111.03   METERS.
The Company, its successors, and assigns shall furnish and install all meters
at their own expense, and shall provide the service wire to building as set
forth in the Company’s tariff filed with the Iowa Utilities Board.
111.04   QUALITY OF SYSTEM.
The system authorized by this chapter shall be modern and up-to-date and shall
be of sufficient capacity to supply all reasonable demands of the City and its
inhabitants and shall be kept in a modern and up-to-date condition.
111.05   NONEXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE.
The franchise granted by this chapter shall not be exclusive.
111.06   NO INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
Service to be rendered by the Company under this chapter shall be continuous
unless prevented from doing so by fire, acts of God, unavoidable accidents or
casualties, or reasonable interruptions necessary to properly service the
Company’s equipment, and in such event service shall be resumed as quickly as
is reasonably possible.
111.07   TERM OF FRANCHISE.
The term of the franchise granted by this chapter and the rights granted
hereunder shall continue for the period of 25 years from and after its
acceptance by the said Company, as herein provided. The City may cancel the
franchise on the tenth, fifteenth, or twentieth anniversary of the anniversary
date of the franchise by notifying Company in writing of its desire to do so,
said notification to be given within 30 days of the tenth, fifteenth, or
twentieth anniversary of the franchise. If Company is not notified of the
cancellation by the tenth, fifteenth, or twentieth anniversary, then the
franchise shall continue without cancellation until the twenty-fifth year. The
anniversary date shall be the date the franchise is filed with the City Clerk
or is otherwise effective by operation of law.
111.08   AMENDMENTS.
This chapter sets forth and constitutes the entire agreement between the
Company and the City with respect to the rights contained herein, and may not
be superseded, modified, or otherwise amended without the approval and
acceptance of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the
City enact any ordinance or place any limitations, either operationally or
through the assessment of fees, that create additional burdens upon the
Company, or which delay utility operations.
CHAPTER 120
LIQUOR LICENSES AND WINE AND BEER PERMITS
 
120.01 License or Permit Required 120.04 Action by Council
120.02 General Prohibition        120.05 Prohibited Sales and Acts
120.03 Investigation              120.06 Amusement Devices
 
120.01   LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall manufacture for sale, import, sell, or offer or keep for sale,
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer without first securing a liquor control
license, wine permit, or beer permit in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.22, 123.122, and 123.171)
120.02   GENERAL PROHIBITION.
It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, sell, offer, or keep for sale, possess,
or transport alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer except upon the terms, conditions,
limitations, and restrictions enumerated in Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa,
and a license or permit may be suspended or revoked or a civil penalty may be
imposed for a violation thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.2, 123.39, and 123.50)
120.03   INVESTIGATION.
Upon receipt of an application for a liquor license, wine or beer permit, the
Clerk may forward it to the Police Chief, who shall then conduct an
investigation and submit a written report as to the truth of the facts averred
in the application. The Fire Chief may also inspect the premises to determine
if they conform to the requirements of the City. The Council shall not approve
an application for a license or permit for any premises that does not conform
to the applicable law and ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.30)
120.04   ACTION BY COUNCIL.
The Council shall either approve or disapprove the issuance of a liquor control
license, a retail wine permit, or a retail beer permit and shall endorse its
approval or disapproval on the application, and thereafter the application,
necessary fee, and bond, if required, shall be forwarded to the Alcoholic
Beverages Division of the State Department of Commerce for such further action
as is provided by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.32[2])
120.05   PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS.
A person holding a liquor license or retail wine or beer permit and the
person’s agents or employees shall not do any of the following:
1.   Sell, dispense, or give to any intoxicated person, or one simulating
intoxication, any alcoholic beverage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[1])
2.   Sell or dispense any alcoholic beverage on the premises covered by the
license or permit, or permit its consumption thereon between the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on a weekday, and between the hours of 2:00 a.m. on Sunday
and 6:00 a.m. on the following Monday; however, a holder of a liquor control
license or retail wine or beer permit granted the privilege of selling
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer on Sunday may sell or dispense alcoholic
liquor, wine, or beer between the hours of 6:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. of
the following Monday, and further provided that a holder of any class of liquor
control license or the holder of a Class “B” beer permit may sell or dispense
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer for consumption on the premises between the
hours of 6:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on Monday when that Monday is New
Year’s Day and beer for consumption off the premises between the hours of 6:00
a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on the following Monday when that Sunday is the
day before New Year’s Day.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2b] and 123.150)
3.   Sell alcoholic beverages to any person on credit, except with a bona fide
credit card. This provision does not apply to sales by a club to its members,
to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide registered guests, or to retail sales
by the managing entity of a convention center, civic center, or events center.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2c])
4.   Employ a person under 18 years of age in the sale or serving of alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises where sold.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2f])
5.   In the case of a retail wine or beer permittee, knowingly allow the mixing
or adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to wine, beer, or any other
beverage in or about the permittee’s place of business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2i])
6.   Knowingly permit any gambling, except in accordance with Iowa law, or
knowingly permit any solicitation for immoral purposes, or immoral or
disorderly conduct on the premises covered by the license or permit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2a])
7.   Knowingly permit or engage in any criminal activity on the premises
covered by the license or permit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2j])
8.   Keep on premises covered by a liquor control license any alcoholic liquor
in any container except the original package purchased from the Alcoholic
Beverages Division of the State Department of Commerce and except mixed drinks
or cocktails mixed on the premises for immediate consumption. However, mixed
drinks or cocktails that are mixed on the premises and are not for immediate
consumption may be consumed on the licensed premises, subject to rules adopted
by the Alcoholic Beverages Division.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2d])
9.   Reuse for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine any container or receptacle
used originally for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine; or adulterate, by the
addition of any substance, the contents or remaining contents of an original
package of an alcoholic liquor or wine; or knowingly possess any original
package that has been reused or adulterated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2e])
10.   Allow any person other than the licensee, permittee, or employees of the
licensee or permittee to use or keep on the licensed premises any alcoholic
liquor in any bottle or other container that is designed for the transporting
of such beverages, except as allowed by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2g])
11.   Sell, give, possess, or otherwise supply a machine that is used to
vaporize an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of being consumed in a vaporized
form.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[21])
120.06   AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
The following provisions pertain to electrical or mechanical amusement devices
possessed and used in accordance with Chapter 99B of the Code of Iowa. (Said
devices are allowed only in premises with a liquor control license or beer
permit, as specifically authorized in said Chapter 99B.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 99B.57)
1.   As used in this section, “registered electrical or mechanical amusement
device” means an electrical or mechanical device required to be registered with
the Iowa Department of Inspection and Appeals, as provided in Section 99B.53 of
the Code of Iowa.
2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to participate in the
operation of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device.
3.   It is unlawful for any person owning or leasing a registered electrical or
mechanical amusement device, or an employee of a person owning or leasing a
registered electrical or mechanical amusement device, to knowingly allow a
person under the age of 21 to participate in the operation of a registered
electrical or mechanical amusement device.
4.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly participate in the operation of
a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device with a person under the
age of 21.
CHAPTER 121
CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO PERMITS
 
121.01 Definitions             121.06 Refunds
121.02 Permit Required         121.07 Persons Under Legal Age
121.03 Application             121.08 Self-Service Sales Prohibited
121.04 Fees                    121.09 Permit Revocation
121.05 Issuance and Expiration
 
121.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.1)
1.   “Alternative nicotine product” means a product, not consisting of or
containing tobacco, that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing, or
by any other means. “Alternative nicotine product” does not include cigarettes,
tobacco products, or vapor products, or a product that is regulated as a drug
or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
2.   “Cigarette” means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of tobacco,
or any substitute for tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and irrespective
of tobacco or any substitute for tobacco being flavored, adulterated, or mixed
with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper or cover made of paper
or any other material. However, cigarette shall not be construed to include
cigars.
3.   “Place of business” means any place where cigarettes, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or vapor products are sold, stored, or kept for
the purpose of sale or consumption by a retailer.
4.   “Retailer” means every person who sells, distributes, or offers for sale
for consumption, or possesses for the purpose of sale for consumption,
cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products, irrespective of
the quantity or amount or the number of sales, or who engages in the business
of selling tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products to ultimate consumers.
5.   “Self-service display” means any manner of product display, placement, or
storage from which a person purchasing the product may take possession of the
product, prior to purchase, without assistance from the retailer or employee of
the retailer, in removing the product from a restricted access location.
6.   “Tobacco products” means the following: cigars; little cigars; cheroots;
stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other
smoking tobacco; snuff; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and other
chewing tobaccos; shorts or refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and sweepings
of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such manner as to
be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or for both chewing
and smoking, but does not mean cigarettes.
7.   “Vapor product” means any noncombustible product, which may or may not
contain nicotine, that employs a heating element, power source, electronic
circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of
shape or size, that can be used to produce vapor from a solution or other
substance. “Vapor product” includes an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device, and any
cartridge or other container of a solution or other substance, which may or may
not contain nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar
product or device. “Vapor product” does not include a product regulated as a
drug or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter
V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
121.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
1.   Retail Cigarette Permits. It is unlawful for any person, other than a
holder of a retail permit, to sell cigarettes, alternative nicotine products,
or vapor products at retail and no retailer shall distribute, sell, or solicit
the sale of any cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products
within the City without a valid permit for each place of business. The permit
shall, at all times, be publicly displayed at the place of business so as to be
easily seen by the public and the persons authorized to inspect the place of
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13)
2.   Retail Tobacco Permits. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a retailer of tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products at any place of business without first having
received a permit as a retailer for each place of business owned or operated by
the retailer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A)
A retailer who holds a retail cigarette permit is not required to also obtain a
retail tobacco permit. However, if a retailer only holds a retail cigarette
permit and that permit is suspended, revoked, or expired, the retailer shall
not sell any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products, during such time.
121.03   APPLICATION.
A completed application on forms furnished by the State Department of Revenue
or on forms made available or approved by the Department and accompanied by the
required fee shall be filed with the Clerk. Renewal applications shall be filed
at least five days prior to the last regular meeting of the Council in June. If
a renewal application is not timely filed, and a special Council meeting is
called to act on the application, the costs of such special meeting shall be
paid by the applicant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.04   FEES.
The fee for a retail cigarette or tobacco permit shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
 
FOR PERMITS GRANTED DURING:    FEE:
July, August, or September     $ 75.00
October, November, or December $ 56.25
January, February, or March    $ 37.50
April, May, or June            $ 18.75
 
121.05   ISSUANCE AND EXPIRATION.
Upon proper application and payment of the required fee, a permit shall be
issued. Each permit issued shall describe clearly the place of business for
which it is issued and shall be nonassignable. All permits expire on June 30 of
each year. The Clerk shall submit a duplicate of any application for a permit
to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce within 30
days of issuance of a permit.
121.06   REFUNDS.
A retailer may surrender an unrevoked permit and receive a refund from the
City, except during April, May, or June, in accordance with the schedule of
refunds as provided in Section 453A.13 or 453A.47A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.07   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
A person shall not sell, give, or otherwise supply any tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes to any
person under 21 years of age. The provision of this section includes
prohibiting a person under 21 years of age from purchasing tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, and cigarettes from a
vending machine. If a retailer or employee of a retailer violates the
provisions of this section, the Council shall, after written notice and
hearing, and in addition to the other penalties fixed for such violation,
assess the following:
1.   For a first violation, the retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty in
the amount of $300.00. Failure to pay the civil penalty as ordered under this
subsection shall result in automatic suspension of the permit for a period of
14 days.
2.   For a second violation within a period of two years, the retailer shall be
assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 or the retailer’s permit
shall be suspended for a period of 30 days. The retailer may select its
preference in the penalty to be applied under this subsection.
3.   For a third violation within a period of three years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.
4.   For a fourth violation within a period of three years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 60 days.
5.   For a fifth violation within a period of four years, the retailer’s permit
shall be revoked.
The Clerk shall give 10 days’ written notice to the retailer by mailing a copy
of the notice to the place of business as it appears on the application for a
permit. The notice shall state the reason for the contemplated action and the
time and place at which the retailer may appear and be heard.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2, 453A.22, and 453A.36[6])
121.08   SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED.
Except for the sale of cigarettes through a cigarette vending machine as
provided in Section 453A.36[6] of the Code of Iowa, a retailer shall not sell
or offer for sale tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products, or cigarettes through the use of a self-service display.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.36A)
121.09   PERMIT REVOCATION.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, as provided by the
Code of Iowa, the Council may also revoke a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter for a violation of Division I of Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or
any rule adopted thereunder. If a permit is revoked, a new permit shall not be
issued to the permit holder for any place of business, or to any other person
for the place of business at which the violation occurred, until one year has
expired from the date of revocation, unless good cause to the contrary is shown
to the Council. The Clerk shall report the revocation or suspension of a retail
permit to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce within
30 days of the revocation or suspension.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.22)
CHAPTER 122
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
122.01 Purpose                  122.10 Time Restriction
122.02 Definitions              122.11 Revocation of License
122.03 License Required         122.12 Hearing
122.04 Application for License  122.13 Record and Determination
122.05 License Fees             122.14 Appeal
122.06 Bond Required            122.15 Effect of Revocation
122.07 License Issued           122.16 Rebates
122.08 Display of License       122.17 License Exemptions
122.09 License Not Transferable 122.18 Charitable and Nonprofit Organizations
 
122.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to protect residents of the City against fraud,
unfair competition, and intrusion into the privacy of their homes by licensing
and regulating peddlers, solicitors, and transient merchants.
122.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Peddler” means any person carrying goods or merchandise who sells or
offers for sale for immediate delivery such goods or merchandise from house to
house or upon the public street.
2.   “Solicitor” means any person who solicits or attempts to solicit from
house to house or upon the public street any contribution or donation or any
order for goods, services, subscriptions, or merchandise to be delivered at a
future date.
3.   “Transient merchant” means any person who engages in a temporary or
itinerant merchandising business and in the course of such business hires,
leases, or occupies any building or structure whatsoever, or who operates out
of a vehicle that is parked anywhere within the City limits. Temporary
association with a local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer, or conduct of
such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any
local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer does not exempt any person from
being considered a transient merchant.
122.03   LICENSE REQUIRED.
Any person engaging in peddling, soliciting, or in the business of a transient
merchant in the City without first obtaining a license as herein provided is in
violation of this chapter.
122.04   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
An application in writing shall be filed with the City Clerk for a license
under this chapter. Such application shall set forth the applicant’s name,
permanent and local address, and business address if any. The application shall
also set forth the applicant’s employer, if any, and the employer’s address,
the nature of the applicant’s business, the last three places of such business,
and the length of time sought to be covered by the license.
122.05   LICENSE FEES.
The following license fees shall be paid to the City Clerk prior to the
issuance of any license.
1.   For one day   $10.00
2.   For one week   $15.00
3.   For one month   $20.00
4.   For three months   $25.00
5.   For six months   $40.00
6.   For one year   $50.00
122.06   BOND REQUIRED.
Before a license under this chapter is issued to a transient merchant, an
applicant shall provide to the Clerk evidence that the applicant has filed a
bond with the Secretary of State in accordance with Chapter 9C of the Code of
Iowa.
122.07   LICENSE ISSUED.
If the Clerk finds the application is completed in conformance with the
requirements of this chapter, the facts stated therein are found to be correct,
and the license fee paid, a license shall be issued immediately.
122.08   DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
Each solicitor or peddler shall keep such license in possession at all times
while doing business in the City and shall, upon the request of prospective
customers, exhibit the license as evidence of compliance with all requirements
of this chapter. Each transient merchant shall display publicly such merchant’s
license in the merchant’s place of business.
122.09   LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter are not transferable in
any situation and are to be applicable only to the person filing the
application.
122.10   TIME RESTRICTION.
All peddler’s and solicitor’s licenses shall provide that said licenses are in
force and effect only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
122.11   REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, the Clerk may
revoke any license issued pursuant to this chapter for the following reasons:
1.   Fraudulent Statements. The licensee has made fraudulent statements in the
application for the license or in the conduct of the business.
2.   Violation of Law. The licensee has violated this chapter or has otherwise
conducted the business in an unlawful manner.
3.   Endangered Public Welfare, Health, or Safety. The licensee has conducted
the business in such manner as to endanger the public welfare, safety, order,
or morals.
The Clerk shall send the written notice to the licensee at the licensee’s local
address. The notice shall contain particulars of the complaints against the
licensee, the ordinance provisions or State statutes allegedly violated, and
the date, time, and place for hearing on the matter.
122.12   HEARING.
The Clerk shall conduct a hearing at which both the licensee and any
complainants shall be present to determine the truth of the facts alleged in
the complaint and notice. Should the licensee, or authorized representative,
fail to appear without good cause, the Clerk may proceed to a determination of
the complaint.
122.13   RECORD AND DETERMINATION.
The Clerk shall make and record findings of fact and conclusions of law, and
shall revoke a license only when upon review of the entire record the Clerk
finds clear and convincing evidence of substantial violation of this chapter or
State law.
122.14   APPEAL.
If the Clerk revokes or refuses to issue a license, the Clerk shall make a part
of the record the reasons for such revocation or refusal. The licensee, or the
applicant, shall have a right to a hearing before the Council at its next
regular meeting. The Council may reverse, modify, or affirm the decision of the
Clerk by a majority vote of the Council members present and the Clerk shall
carry out the decision of the Council.
122.15   EFFECT OF REVOCATION.
Revocation of any license shall bar the licensee from being eligible for any
license under this chapter for a period of one year from the date of the
revocation.
122.16   REBATES.
Any licensee, except in the case of a revoked license, shall be entitled to a
rebate of part of the fee paid if the license is surrendered before it expires.
The amount of the rebate shall be determined by dividing the total license fee
by the number of days for which the license was issued and then multiplying the
result by the number of full days not expired. In all cases, at least $5.00 of
the original fee shall be retained by the City to cover administrative costs.
122.17   LICENSE EXEMPTIONS.
The following are excluded from the application of this chapter.
1.   Newspapers. Persons delivering, collecting for or selling subscriptions to
newspapers.
2.   Club Members. Members of local civic and service clubs, Boy Scout, Girl
Scout, 4-H Clubs, Future Farmers of America and similar organizations.
3.   Local Residents and Farmers. Local residents and farmers who offer for
sale their own products.
4.   Students. Students representing the Gladbrook-Reinbeck School District
conducting projects sponsored by organizations recognized by the school.
5.   Route Sales. Route delivery persons who only incidentally solicit
additional business or make special sales.
6.   Resale or Institutional Use. Persons customarily calling on businesses or
institutions for the purposes of selling products for resale or institutional
use.
7.   Produce. Persons selling and distributing fresh meat, fruits, or
vegetables.
8.   Personal Work. Persons selling their own work or production either by
themselves or employees.
9.   Minor Businesses. An on-site transactional business traditionally operated
exclusively by a person under the age of 18, operated on an occasional basis
for no more than 89 calendar days in a calendar year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[13])
122.18   CHARITABLE AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
Authorized representatives of charitable or nonprofit organizations operating
under the provisions of Chapter 504 of the Code of Iowa desiring to solicit
money or to distribute literature are exempt from the operation of Sections
122.04 and
122.05. All such organizations are required to submit to the Clerk in writing
the name and purpose of the cause for which such activities are sought, names
and addresses of the officers and directors of the organization, the period
during which such activities are to be carried on, and whether any commissions,
fees, or wages are to be charged by the solicitor and the amount thereof. If
the Clerk finds that the organization is a bona fide charity or nonprofit
organization, the Clerk shall issue, free of charge, a license containing the
above information to the applicant. In the event the Clerk denies the
exemption, the authorized representatives of the organization may appeal the
decision to the Council, as provided in Section
122.14 of this chapter.
CHAPTER 123
HOUSE MOVERS
 
123.01 House Mover Defined 123.07 Public Safety
123.02 Permit Required     123.08 Time Limit
123.03 Application         123.09 Removal by City
123.04 Insurance Required  123.10 Protect Pavement
123.05 Permit Fee          123.11 Overhead Wires
123.06 Permit Issued
 
123.01   HOUSE MOVER DEFINED.
A “house mover” means any person who undertakes to move a building or similar
structure upon, over or across public streets or property when the building or
structure is of such size that it requires the use of skids, jacks, dollies, or
any other specialized moving equipment.
123.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any person to engage in the activity of house mover as
herein defined without a valid permit from the City for each house, building,
or similar structure to be moved. Buildings of less than 100 square feet are
exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
123.03   APPLICATION.
Application for a house mover’s permit shall be made in writing to the Clerk on
a form provided by the City. The application shall include:
1.   Name and Address. The applicant’s full name and address and, if a
corporation, the names and addresses of its principal officers.
2.   Building Location. An accurate description of the present location and
future site of the building or similar structure to be moved.
3.   Routing Plan. A routing plan approved by the peace officer, street
superintendent, and public utility officials. The route approved shall be the
shortest route compatible with the greatest public convenience and safety.
123.04   INSURANCE REQUIRED.
Each applicant shall also file a certificate of insurance indicating that the
applicant is carrying public liability insurance in effect for the duration of
the permit covering the applicant and all agents and employees for the
following minimum amounts:
1.   Bodily Injury – $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
2.   Property Damage – $50,000.00 per accident.
123.05   PERMIT FEE.
A permit fee of $25.00 shall be payable at the time of filing the application
with the Clerk. A separate permit shall be required for each house, building or
similar structure to be moved.
123.06   PERMIT ISSUED.
Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and insurance certificate, and
payment of the required fee, the Clerk shall issue a permit.
123.07   PUBLIC SAFETY.
At all times when a building or similar structure is in motion upon any street,
alley, sidewalk, or public property, the permittee shall maintain flag persons
at the closest intersections or other possible channels of traffic to the
sides, behind, and ahead of the building or structure. At all times when the
building or structure is at rest upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or public
property the permittee shall maintain adequate warning signs or lights at the
intersections or channels of traffic to the sides, behind, and ahead of the
building or structure.
123.08   TIME LIMIT.
No house mover shall permit or allow a building or similar structure to remain
upon any street or other public way for a period of more than 12 hours without
having first secured the written approval of the City.
123.09   REMOVAL BY CITY.
In the event any building or similar structure is found to be in violation of
Section
123.09, the City is authorized to remove such building or structure and assess
the costs thereof against the permit holder and the surety on the permit
holder’s bond.
123.10   PROTECT PAVEMENT.
It is unlawful to move any house or building of any kind over any pavement,
unless the wheels or rollers upon which the house or building is moved are at
least one inch in width for each 1,000 pounds of weight of such building. If
there is any question as to the weight of a house or building, the estimate of
the City as to such weight shall be final.
123.11   OVERHEAD WIRES.
The holder of any permit to move a building shall see that all telephone, cable
television, and electric wires and poles are removed when necessary and
replaced in good order, and shall be liable for the costs of the same.
CHAPTER 135
STREET USE AND MAINTENANCE
 
135.01 Removal of Warning Devices 135.08 Burning Prohibited
135.02 Obstructing or Defacing    135.09 Excavations
135.03 Placing Debris On          135.10 Property Owner’s Responsibility for
                                  Maintenance
135.04 Playing In                 135.11 Failure to Maintain
135.05 Traveling On Barricaded    135.12 Dumping of Snow
Street or Alley
135.06 Use for Business Purposes  135.13 Driveway Culverts
135.07 Washing Vehicles
 
135.01   REMOVAL OF WARNING DEVICES.
It is unlawful for a person to willfully remove, throw down, destroy, or carry
away from any street or alley any lamp, obstruction, guard, or other article or
things, or extinguish any lamp or other light, erected or placed thereupon for
the purpose of guarding or enclosing unsafe or dangerous places in said street
or alley without the consent of the person in control thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.02   OBSTRUCTING OR DEFACING.
It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, deface or injure any street or alley
in any manner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.03   PLACING DEBRIS ON.
It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street or alley any
glass, glass bottle, nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter,
offal, leaves, grass, or any other debris likely to be washed into the storm
sewer and clog the storm sewer, or any substance likely to injure any person,
animal, or vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.369)
135.04   PLAYING IN.
It is unlawful for any person to coast, sled, or play games on streets or
alleys, except in the areas blocked off by the City for such purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.05   TRAVELING ON BARRICADED STREET OR ALLEY.
It is unlawful for any person to travel or operate any vehicle on any street or
alley temporarily closed by barricades, lights, signs, or flares placed thereon
by the authority or permission of any City official, police officer, or member
of the Fire Department.
135.06   USE FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.
It is unlawful to park, store, or place, temporarily or permanently, any
machinery or junk or any other goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind upon
any street or alley for the purpose of storage, exhibition, sale, or offering
same for sale, without permission of the Council.
135.07   WASHING VEHICLES.
It is unlawful for any person to use any public sidewalk, street, or alley for
the purpose of washing or cleaning any automobile, truck equipment, or any
vehicle of any kind when such work is done for hire or as a business. This does
not prevent any person from washing or cleaning his or her own vehicle or
equipment when it is lawfully parked in the street or alley.
135.08   BURNING PROHIBITED.
No person shall burn any trash, leaves, rubbish, or other combustible material
in any curb and gutter or on any paved or surfaced street or alley.
135.09   EXCAVATIONS.
No person shall dig, excavate, or in any manner disturb any street, parking, or
alley except in accordance with the following:
1.   Permit Required. No excavation shall be commenced without first obtaining
a permit. A written application for such permit shall be filed with the City
and shall contain the following:
   A.   An exact description of the property, by lot and street number, in
front of or along which it is desired to excavate;
   B.   A statement of the purpose, for whom and by whom the excavation is to
be made;
   C.   The person responsible for the refilling of said excavation and
restoration of the street or alley surface; and
   D.   Date of commencement of the work and estimated completion date.
2.   Public Convenience. Streets and alleys shall be opened in the manner that
will cause the least inconvenience to the public and admit the uninterrupted
passage of water along the gutter on the street.
3.   Barricades, Fencing, and Lighting. Adequate barricades, fencing, and
warning lights meeting standards specified by the City shall be so placed as to
protect the public from hazard. Any costs incurred by the City in providing or
maintaining adequate barricades, fencing, or warning lights shall be paid to
the City by the permit holder or property owner.
4.   Insurance Required. Each applicant shall also file a certificate of
insurance indicating that the applicant is carrying public liability insurance
in effect for the duration of the permit covering the applicant and all agents
and employees for the following minimum amounts:
   A.   Bodily Injury - $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
   B.   Property Damage - $50,000.00 per accident.
5.   Restoration of Public Property. Streets, sidewalks, alleys, and other
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored to the
condition of the property prior to the commencement of the work, or in a manner
satisfactory to the City, at the expense of the permit holder/property owner.
6.   Inspection. All work shall be subject to inspection by the City. Backfill
shall not be deemed completed, and no resurfacing of any improved street or
alley surface shall begin, until such backfill is inspected and approved by the
City. The permit holder or property owner shall provide the City with notice at
least 24 hours prior to the time when inspection of backfill is desired.
7.   Completion by the City. Should any excavation in any street or alley be
discontinued or left open and unfinished for a period of 24 hours after the
approved completion date, or in the event the work is improperly done, the City
has the right to finish or correct the excavation work and charge any expenses
for such work to the permit holder or property owner.
8.   Responsibility for Costs. All costs and expenses incident to the
excavation shall be borne by the permit holder or property owner. The permit
holder and owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by such excavation.
9.   Notification. At least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the
excavation, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, the person
performing the excavation shall contact the Statewide Notification Center and
provide the center with the information required under Section 480.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
10.   Permit Issued. Upon approval of the application and filing of insurance
certificate, a permit shall be issued. A separate permit shall be required for
each excavation.
135.10   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall maintain all property outside the lot and
property lines and inside the curb lines upon public streets and shall keep
such area in a safe condition, free from nuisances, obstructions, and hazards.
In the absence of a curb, such property shall extend from the property line to
that portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes. The
abutting property owner shall not be required to remove diseased trees or dead
wood on the publicly owned property or right-of-way. Maintenance includes, but
is not limited to, timely mowing, trimming trees and shrubs, and picking up
litter and debris. The abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused
by failure to maintain the publicly owned property or right-of-way.† 6
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: See also Section
6 136.04 relating to property owner’s responsibility for maintenance of
  sidewalks.
135.11   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
If the abutting property owner does not perform an action required under the
above section within a reasonable time, the City may perform the required
action and assess the cost against the abutting property for collection in the
same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2e])
135.12   DUMPING OF SNOW.
It is unlawful for any person to throw, push, or place or cause to be thrown,
pushed or placed, any ice or snow from private property, sidewalks, or
driveways onto the traveled way of a street or alley so as to obstruct gutters,
or impede the passage of vehicles upon the street or alley or to create a
hazardous condition therein; except where, in the cleaning of large commercial
drives in the Business District it is absolutely necessary to move the snow
onto the street or alley temporarily, such accumulation shall be removed
promptly by the property owner or agent. Arrangements for the prompt removal of
such accumulations shall be made prior to moving the snow.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.13   DRIVEWAY CULVERTS.
The property owner shall, at the owner’s expense, install any culvert deemed
necessary under any driveway or any other access to the owner’s property, and
before installing a culvert, permission must first be obtained from the City.
In the event repairs are needed at any time with respect to culverts, it shall
be the responsibility of the property owner to make such repairs, and, in the
event the owner fails to do so, the City shall have the right to make the
repairs. If the property owner fails to reimburse the City for the cost of said
repairs, the cost shall be certified to the County Treasurer and specially
assessed against the property as by law provided.
CHAPTER 136
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
136.01 Purpose                               136.11 Interference with Sidewalk
                                             Improvements
136.02 Definitions                           136.12 Awnings
136.03 Removal of Snow, Ice, and             136.13 Encroaching Steps
Accumulations
136.04 Property Owner’s Responsibility for 136.14 Openings and Enclosures
Maintenance
136.05 City May Order Repairs                136.15 Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
136.06 Sidewalk Construction Ordered         136.16 Defacing
136.07 Permit Required                       136.17 Debris on Sidewalks
136.08 Sidewalk Standards                    136.18 Merchandise Display
136.09 Barricades and Warning Lights         136.19 Sales Stands
136.10 Failure to Repair or Barricade
 
136.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to enhance safe passage by citizens on
sidewalks, to place the responsibility for the maintenance, repair,
replacement, or reconstruction of sidewalks upon the abutting property owner
and to minimize the liability of the City.
136.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Broom finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by sweeping the
sidewalk when it is hardening.
2.   “Defective sidewalk” means any public sidewalk exhibiting one or more of
the following characteristics:
   A.   Vertical separations equal to three-fourths inch or more.
   B.   Horizontal separations equal to one inch or more.
   C.   Holes or depressions equal to three-fourths inch or more and at least
four inches in diameter.
   D.   Spalling over 50 percent of a single square of the sidewalk with one or
more depressions equal to one-half inch or more.
   E.   Spalling over less than 50 percent of a single square of the sidewalk
with one or more depressions equal to three-fourths inch or more.
   F.   A single square of sidewalk cracked in such a manner that no part
thereof has a piece greater than one square foot.
   G.   A sidewalk with any part thereof missing to the full depth.
   H.   A change from the design or construction grade equal to or greater than
three-fourths inch per foot.
3.   “Established grade” means that grade established by the City for the
particular area in which a sidewalk is to be constructed.
4.   “One-course construction” means that the full thickness of the concrete is
placed at one time, using the same mixture throughout.
5.   “Owner” means the person owning the fee title to property abutting any
sidewalk and includes any contract purchaser for purposes of notification
required herein. For all other purposes, “owner” includes the lessee, if any.
6.   “Portland cement” means any type of cement except bituminous cement.
7.   “Sidewalk” means all permanent public walks in business, residential or
suburban areas.
8.   “Sidewalk improvements” means the construction, reconstruction, repair,
replacement, or removal of a public sidewalk or the excavating, filling, or
depositing of material in the public right-of-way in connection therewith.
9.   “Wood float finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by smoothing the
surface of the sidewalk with a wooden trowel.
136.03   REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, AND ACCUMULATIONS.
The abutting property owner shall remove snow, ice, and accumulations promptly
from sidewalks. If a property owner does not remove snow, ice, or accumulations
within a reasonable time, the City may do so and assess the costs against the
property owner for collection in the same manner as a property tax. The
abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused by failure to remove
snow, ice, and accumulations promptly from the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2b and e])
136.04   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall repair, replace, or reconstruct, or cause to
be repaired, replaced, or reconstructed, all broken or defective sidewalks and
maintain in a safe and hazard-free condition any sidewalk outside the lot and
property lines and inside the curb lines or, in the absence of a curb, any
sidewalk between the property line and that portion of the public street used
or improved for vehicular purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2)(c))
(Section 136.04 – Ord. 2024-11OR – Oct. 24 Supp.)
136.05   CITY MAY ORDER REPAIRS.
If the abutting property owner does not maintain sidewalks as required, the
Council may serve notice on such owner, by certified mail, requiring the owner
to repair, replace or reconstruct sidewalks within a reasonable time and if
such action is not completed within the time stated in the notice, the Council
may require the work to be done and assess the costs against the abutting
property for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2d and e])
136.06   SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION ORDERED.
The Council may order the construction of permanent sidewalks upon any street
or court in the City and may specially assess the cost of such improvement to
abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 384 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.38)
136.07   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall remove, reconstruct, or install a sidewalk unless such person
has obtained a permit from the City and has agreed in writing that said
removal, reconstruction, or installation will comply with all ordinances and
requirements of the City for such work.
136.08   SIDEWALK STANDARDS.
Sidewalks repaired, replaced, or constructed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be of the following construction and meet the following
standards:
1.   Cement. Portland cement shall be the only cement used in the construction
and repair of sidewalks.
2.   Construction. Sidewalks shall be of one-course construction.
3.   Sidewalk Base. Concrete may be placed directly on compact and well-drained
soil. Where soil is not well drained, a three-inch sub-base of compact, clean,
coarse gravel or sand shall be laid. The adequacy of the soil drainage is to be
determined by the City.
4.   Sidewalk Bed. The sidewalk bed shall be so graded that the constructed
sidewalk will be at established grade.
5.   Length, Width and Depth. Length, width and depth requirements are as
follows:
   A.   Residential sidewalks shall be at least three and one-half feet wide
and three and one-half inches thick, and each section shall be no more than
four feet in length.
   B.   All sidewalks throughout the Business District shall be constructed
from lot line to the curb line unless the location of the sidewalk is varied by
an appropriate resolution of the Council upon application by the landowner.
6.   Location. Residential sidewalks shall be located with the inner edge (edge
nearest the abutting private property) on the property line, unless the Council
establishes a different distance due to special circumstances.
7.   Grade. Curb tops shall be on level with the centerline of the street,
which is the established grade.
8.   Elevations. The street edge of a sidewalk shall be at an elevation even
with the curb at the curb or not less than one-half inch above the curb for
each foot between the curb and the sidewalk.
9.   Slope. All sidewalks shall slope one-fourth inch per foot toward the curb.
10.   Finish. All sidewalks shall be finished with a broom finish or wood float
finish.
11.   Curb Ramps and Sloped Areas for Persons with Disabilities. If a street,
road, or highway is newly built or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped area
shall be constructed or installed at each intersection of the street, road, or
highway with a sidewalk or path. If a sidewalk or path is newly built or
reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped area shall be constructed or installed at
each intersection of the sidewalk or path with a street, highway, or road. Curb
ramps and sloped areas that are required pursuant to this subsection shall be
constructed or installed in compliance with applicable federal requirements
adopted in accordance with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act,
including (but not limited to) the guidelines issued by the Federal
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 216C.9)
136.09   BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
Whenever any material of any kind is deposited on any street, avenue, highway,
passageway, or alley when sidewalk improvements are being made or when any
sidewalk is in a dangerous condition, it shall be the duty of all persons
having an interest therein, either as the contractor or the owner, agent, or
lessee of the property in front of or along which such material may be
deposited, or such dangerous condition exists, to put in conspicuous places at
each end of such sidewalk and at each end of any pile of material deposited in
the street, a sufficient number of approved warning lights or flares, and to
keep them lighted during the entire night and to erect sufficient barricades
both at night and in the daytime to secure the same. The party or parties using
the street for any of the purposes specified in this chapter shall be liable
for all injuries or damage to persons or property arising from any wrongful act
or negligence of the party or parties, or their agents or employees or for any
misuse of the privileges conferred by this chapter or of any failure to comply
with provisions hereof.
136.10   FAILURE TO REPAIR OR BARRICADE.
It is the duty of the owner of the property abutting the sidewalk, or the
owner’s contractor or agent, to notify the City immediately in the event of
failure or inability to make necessary sidewalk improvements or to install or
erect necessary barricades as required by this chapter.
136.11   INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
No person shall knowingly or willfully drive any vehicle upon any portion of
any sidewalk or approach thereto while in the process of being improved or upon
any portion of any completed sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove or
destroy any part or all of any sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove,
destroy, mar, or deface any sidewalk at any time or destroy, mar, remove, or
deface any notice provided by this chapter.
136.12   AWNINGS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any awning over any sidewalk
unless all parts of the awning are elevated at least eight feet above the
surface of the sidewalk and the roof or covering is made of duck, canvas, or
other suitable material supported by iron frames or brackets securely fastened
to the building, without any posts or other device that will obstruct the
sidewalk or hinder or interfere with the free passage of pedestrians.
136.13   ENCROACHING STEPS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any stairs or steps to any
building upon any part of any sidewalk without permission by resolution of the
Council.
136.14   OPENINGS AND ENCLOSURES.
It is unlawful for a person to:
1.   Stairs and Railings. Construct or build a stairway or passageway to any
cellar or basement by occupying any part of the sidewalk, or to enclose any
portion of a sidewalk with a railing without permission by resolution of the
Council.
2.   Openings. Keep open any cellar door, grating, or cover to any vault on any
sidewalk except while in actual use with adequate guards to protect the public.
3.   Protect Openings. Neglect to properly protect or barricade all openings on
or within six feet of any sidewalk.
136.15   FIRES OR FUEL ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to make a fire of any kind on any sidewalk or to
place or allow any fuel to remain upon any sidewalk.
136.16   DEFACING.
It is unlawful for a person to scatter or place any paste, paint, or writing on
any sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
136.17   DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to throw or deposit on any sidewalk any glass,
nails, glass bottle, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, offal,
or any other debris, or any substance likely to injure any person, animal, or
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
136.18   MERCHANDISE DISPLAY.
It is unlawful for a person to place upon or above any sidewalk, any goods or
merchandise for sale or for display in such a manner as to interfere with the
free and uninterrupted passage of pedestrians on the sidewalk; in no case shall
more than three feet of the sidewalk next to the building be occupied for such
purposes.
136.19   SALES STANDS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or keep any vending machine or stand for
the sale of fruit, vegetables, or other substances or commodities on any
sidewalk without first obtaining a written permit from the Council.
CHAPTER 137
VACATION AND DISPOSAL OF STREETS
 
137.01 Power to Vacate                137.04 Findings Required
137.02 Planning and Zoning Commission 137.05 Disposal of Vacated Streets or
                                      Alleys
137.03 Notice of Vacation Hearing     137.06 Disposal by Gift Limited
 
137.01   POWER TO VACATE.
When, in the judgment of the Council, it would be in the best interest of the
City to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds, the
Council may do so by ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2a])
137.02   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
Any proposal to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds
shall be referred by the Council to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its
study and recommendation prior to further consideration by the Council. The
Commission shall submit a written report including recommendations to the
Council within 30 days after the date the proposed vacation is referred to the
Commission.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
137.03   NOTICE OF VACATION HEARING.
The Council shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing of the time
at which the proposal to vacate shall be considered.
137.04   FINDINGS REQUIRED.
No street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds shall be vacated
unless the Council finds that:
1.   Public Use. The street, alley, portion thereof, or any public ground
proposed to be vacated is not needed for the use of the public, and therefore,
its maintenance at public expense is no longer justified.
2.   Abutting Property. The proposed vacation will not deny owners of property
abutting on the street or alley reasonable access to their property.
137.05   DISPOSAL OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS.
When in the judgment of the Council it would be in the best interest of the
City to dispose of a vacated street or alley, portion thereof or public ground,
the Council may do so in accordance with the provisions of Section 364.7, Code
of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7)
137.06   DISPOSAL BY GIFT LIMITED.
The City may not dispose of real property by gift except to a governmental body
for a public purpose or to a fair.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 174.15[2] and 364.7[3])
 
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
 
CHAPTER 138
STREET GRADES
 
138.01 Purpose and Definition 138.03 Record Maintained
138.02 Established Grades
 
138.01   PURPOSE AND DEFINITION.
This chapter is designed to meet the requirements of the Code of Iowa for the
establishment of street grades. As used herein, “grade” means the longitudinal
reference lines, as established by ordinance of the Council, which designate
the elevation at which a street or sidewalk is to be built.
138.02   ESTABLISHED GRADES.
The grades of all streets, alleys, and sidewalks, which have been heretofore
established by ordinance, are hereby confirmed, ratified, and established as
official grades.
138.03   RECORD MAINTAINED.
The Clerk shall maintain a record of all established grades and furnish
information concerning such grades upon request.
 
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street and/or sidewalk grades and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
 
CHAPTER 139
NAMING OF STREETS
 
139.01 Naming New Streets      139.04 Official Street Name Map
139.02 Changing Name of Street 139.05 Revision of Street Name Map
139.03 Recording Street Names
 
139.01   NAMING NEW STREETS.
New streets shall be assigned names in accordance with the following:
1.   Extension of Existing Street. Streets added to the City that are natural
extensions of existing streets shall be assigned the name of the existing
street.
2.   Resolution. All street names, except streets named as a part of a
subdivision or platting procedure, shall be named by resolution.
3.   Planning and Zoning Commission. Proposed street names shall be referred to
the Planning and Zoning Commission for review and recommendation.
139.02   CHANGING NAME OF STREET.
The Council may, by resolution, change the name of a street.
139.03   RECORDING STREET NAMES.
Following official action naming or changing the name of a street, the Clerk
shall file a copy thereof with the County Recorder, County Auditor, and County
Assessor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.26)
139.04   OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP.
Streets within the City are named as shown on the Official Street Name Map,
which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
The Official Street Name Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor,
and bearing the seal of the City under the following words: “This is to certify
that this is the Official Street Name Map referred to in Section
139.04 of the Code of Ordinances of Reinbeck, Iowa.”
139.05   REVISION OF STREET NAME MAP.
If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in
street names, such changes shall be entered on the Official Street Name Map
promptly after the change has been approved by the Council with an entry on the
Official Street Name Map as follows: “On (date), by official action of the City
Council, the following changes were made in the Official Street Name Map:
(brief description),” which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by
the Clerk.
CHAPTER 145
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
 
145.01 Enforcement Officer          145.05 Conduct of Hearing
145.02 General Definition of Unsafe 145.06 Posting of Signs
145.03 Unsafe Building              145.07 Right to Demolish; Municipal
                                    Infraction
145.04 Notice to Owner              145.08 Costs
 
145.01   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
The City Administrator is responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
145.02   GENERAL DEFINITION OF UNSAFE.
All buildings or structures that are structurally unsafe or not provided with
adequate egress, or that constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous
to human life, or that in relation to existing use constitute a hazard to
safety or health, or public welfare, by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, obsolescence, or abandonment, are, for the purpose of this
chapter, unsafe buildings. All such unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be
public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or
removal in accordance with the procedure specified in this chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657A.1 and 364.12[3a])
145.03   UNSAFE BUILDING.
“Unsafe building” means any structure or mobile home meeting any or all of the
following criteria:
1.   Various Inadequacies. Whenever the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, because of: (i) dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; (ii) faulty
construction; (iii) the removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building; (iv) the
deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or (v) any other cause,
is likely to partially or completely collapse.
2.   Manifestly Unsafe. Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or
any portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being
used.
3.   Inadequate Maintenance. Whenever a building or structure, used or intended
to be used for dwelling purposes, because of dilapidation, decay, damage,
faulty construction, or otherwise, is determined by any health officer to be
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such condition that it is likely
to cause sickness or disease.
4.   Fire Hazard. Whenever any building or structure, because of dilapidated
condition, deterioration, damage, or other cause, is determined by the Fire
Marshal or Fire Chief to be a fire hazard.
5.   Abandoned. Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
145.04   NOTICE TO OWNER.
The enforcement officer shall examine or cause to be examined every building or
structure or portion thereof reported as dangerous or damaged and, if such is
found to be an unsafe building as defined in this chapter, the enforcement
officer shall give to the owner of such building or structure written notice
stating the defects thereof. This notice may require the owner or person in
charge of the building or premises, within 48 hours or such reasonable time as
the circumstances require, to commence either the required repairs or
improvements or demolition and removal of the building or structure or portions
thereof, and all such work shall be completed within 90 days from date of
notice, unless otherwise stipulated by the enforcement officer. If necessary,
such notice shall also require the building, structure, or portion thereof to
be vacated forthwith and not reoccupied until the required repairs and
improvements are completed, inspected, and approved by the enforcement officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
1.   Notice Served. Such notice shall be served by sending by certified mail to
the owner of record, according to Section 364.12[3h] of the Code of Iowa, if
the owner is found within the City limits. If the owner is not found within the
City limits, such service may be made upon the owner by registered mail or
certified mail. The designated period within which said owner or person in
charge is required to comply with the order of the enforcement officer shall
begin as of the date the owner receives such notice.
2.   Hearing. Such notice shall also advise the owner that he or she may
request a hearing before the Council on the notice by filing a written request
for hearing within the time provided in the notice.
145.05   CONDUCT OF HEARING.
If requested, the Council shall conduct a hearing in accordance with the
following:
1.   Notice. The owner shall be served with written notice specifying the date,
time and place of hearing.
2.   Owner’s Rights. At the hearing, the owner may appear and show cause why
the alleged nuisance shall not be abated.
3.   Determination. The Council shall make and record findings of fact and may
issue such order as it deems appropriate.† 7
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Suggested forms of notice and of a resolution and order of the
  Council for the administration of this chapter are provided in the APPENDIX to
7 this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use of this procedure. We
  recommend you review the situation with your attorney before initiating
  procedures and follow his or her recommendation carefully.
145.06   POSTING OF SIGNS.
The enforcement officer shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such
building a notice to read: “DO NOT ENTER. UNSAFE TO OCCUPY. CITY OF REINBECK,
IOWA.” Such notice shall remain posted until the required demolition, removal
or repairs are completed. Such notice shall not be removed without written
permission of the enforcement officer and no person shall enter the building
except for the purpose of making the required repairs or of demolishing the
building.
145.07   RIGHT TO DEMOLISH; MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
In case the owner fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with the notice to
repair, rehabilitate, or to demolish and remove the building or structure or
portion thereof, the Council may order the owner of the building prosecuted as
a violator of the provisions of this chapter and may order the enforcement
officer to proceed with the work specified in such notice. A statement of the
cost of such work shall be transmitted to the Council. As an alternative to
this action, the City may utilize the municipal infraction process to abate the
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
145.08   COSTS.
Costs incurred under Section
145.07 shall be paid out of the City treasury. Such costs shall be charged to
the owner of the premises involved and levied as a special assessment against
the land on which the building or structure is located, and shall be certified
to the County Treasurer for collection in the manner provided for other taxes.
In addition, the City may take any other action deemed appropriate to recover
costs incurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
CHAPTER 146
MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES
 
146.01 Definitions                 146.03 Foundation Requirements
146.02 Conversion to Real Property
 
146.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.1)
1.   “Manufactured home” means a factory-built structure built under the
authority of 42 U.S.C. Sec. 5403 which was constructed on or after June 15,
1976, and is required by federal law to display a seal from the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development.
2.   “Manufactured home community” means any site, lot, field, or tract of land
under common ownership upon which 10 or more occupied manufactured homes are
harbored, either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and includes any
building, structure, or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the
equipment of the manufactured home community.
3.   “Mobile home” means any vehicle without motive power used or so
manufactured or constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon
the public streets and highways and so designed, constructed, or reconstructed
as will permit the vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or
more persons; but also includes any such vehicle with motive power not
registered as a motor vehicle in Iowa. A mobile home means any such vehicle
built before June 15, 1976, which was not built to a mandatory building code
and which contains no State or federal seals.
4.   “Mobile home park” means any site, lot, field, or tract of land upon which
three or more mobile homes or manufactured homes, or a combination of any of
these homes, are placed on developed spaces and operated as a for-profit
enterprise with water, sewer or septic, and electrical services available.
The term “manufactured home community” or “mobile home park” is not to be
construed to include manufactured or mobile homes, buildings, tents, or other
structures temporarily maintained by any individual, educational institution,
or company on its own premises and used exclusively to house said entity’s own
labor or students. The manufactured home community or mobile home park shall
meet the requirements of any zoning regulations that are in effect.
146.02   CONVERSION TO REAL PROPERTY.
A mobile home or manufactured home that is located outside a manufactured home
community or mobile home park shall be converted to real estate by being placed
on a permanent foundation and shall be assessed for real estate taxes except in
the following cases:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.26)
1.   Retailer’s Stock. Mobile homes or manufactured homes on private property
as part of a retailer’s or a manufacturer’s stock not used as a place for human
habitation.
2.   Existing Homes. A taxable mobile home or manufactured home that is located
outside of a manufactured home community or mobile home park as of January 1,
1995, shall be assessed and taxed as real estate, but is exempt from the
permanent foundation requirement of this chapter until the home is relocated.
146.03   FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS.
A mobile home or manufactured home located outside of a manufactured home
community or mobile home park shall be placed on a permanent frost-free
foundation system that meets the support and anchorage requirements as
recommended by the manufacturer or required by the State Building Code. The
foundation system must be visually compatible with permanent foundation systems
of surrounding residential structures. Any such home shall be installed in
accordance with the requirements of the State Building Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.10 and 414.28)
CHAPTER 147
WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS
 
147.01 Purpose             147.04 Special Exception Permit
147.02 Definitions         147.05 Design Standards
147.03 Permit Requirements 147.06 General Regulations
 
147.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to accommodate a wind energy system, in
appropriate locations, while minimizing any adverse visual, safety, and
environmental impacts of the system. In addition, this chapter provides a
permit process for wind energy systems to ensure compliance with the provisions
of the requirements and standards established herein.
147.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Rooftop wind energy system” means small wind energy systems designed to
be mounted on the rooftops of residential or commercial buildings.
2.   “Total system height” means the vertical distance from ground level to the
highest point of the system, including any blades.
3.   “Tower wind energy system” means any free-standing electrical generating
equipment that converts the kinetic energy of blowing wind into electrical
energy and associated structures and equipment.
147.03   PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
No tower wind energy system shall be erected, constructed, installed, or
modified without first obtaining an approved special exception use permit from
the Board of Adjustment. The owner or operator of the wind energy system shall
obtain all other permits required by federal, state, and local agencies prior
to construction of the system.
147.04   SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT.
The special exception permit will be submitted to the Board of Adjustment in
accordance with
Chapter 165 of this Code of Ordinances. It shall include the following
information.
1.   Complete property dimensions.
2.   Location and full dimensions of all buildings existing on the property.
3.   Location and distances of all buildings within 200 feet of the property.
4.   Dimensions of any natural or manmade features on or within 200 feet of the
property.
5.   Location of all easements upon the property.
6.   Proposed location of the wind energy system, including height and setbacks
from property and overhead utility lines.
7.   Drawings, to scale, of the wind energy system, including base, footings,
guy wires and electrical components.
147.05   DESIGN STANDARDS.
Tower Wind Energy Systems. All tower wind energy systems shall comply with the
following design standards.
   A.   A setback of 110 percent of the total system height from any property
line or overhead utility lines is required. Guy wires shall not extend into the
setbacks.
   B.   All wind energy systems shall have a maximum height of 80 feet.
   C.   Ground clearance for the rotor blades shall not extend within 15 feet
of the ground.
   D.   The base of the system shall not be climbable up to 15 feet from the
ground.
   E.   The sound of the system shall not exceed 50 decibels measured at the
property line.
   F.   The system shall not cause vibration for neighboring properties.
   G.   No system shall interfere with television, microwave, navigational,
radio, or other personal communication devices transmissions.
   H.   The system shall not cause shadow flicker on neighboring properties.
   I.   All systems shall have a neutral color, non-reflective surface.
   J.   All systems shall be constructed in accordance with plans prepared and
stamped by a qualified professional engineer. These plans shall be submitted
for review with the special exception permit.
   K.   All systems shall be equipped with manual and automatic over speed
controls to limit the blade rotation speed to within the design limits of the
system.
   L.   These systems are only allowed in zone A-1, C-1, C-2, M-1, M-2 and on
government owned land.
2.   Rooftop Wind Energy Systems. All rooftop wind energy systems shall comply
with the following design standards.
   A.   The sound of the system shall not exceed 50 decibels measured at the
property line.
   B.   The system shall not cause vibration for neighboring properties.
   C.   No system shall interfere with television, microwave, navigational,
radio, or other personal communication devices transmissions.
   D.   The system shall not cause shadow flicker on neighboring properties.
   E.   All systems shall have a neutral color, non-reflective surface.
   F.   These systems are only allowed in zone A-1, C-1, C-2, M-1, M-2 and on
government owned land.
147.06   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
1.   Insurance Requirements. The following insurance requirements are required
for all tower wind energy systems.
   A.   Proof of insurance coverage must be provided prior to the issuance of a
building permit.
   B.   Liability insurance with a minimum coverage of $500,000.00 shall be
maintained by the owner of the tower wind energy system.
   C.   The City shall be notified if coverage lapses and reserves the right to
stop use of the system until coverage is reinstated.
2.   Accessory Structure. Wind energy systems shall not be considered as
accessory structures.
3.   Inspections. An inspection of all tower wind energy systems shall be
conducted by a qualified professional at least once every 24 months, with a
copy of the inspection report submitted to the Building Official. In the event
a property owner fails to provide the required inspection, use of the system
must cease until an inspection is completed and a report submitted.
4.   Number of Systems. No more than one wind energy system may be placed on
any parcel, lot, or tract.
5.   Lighting and Signage. Lighting and signs shall not be placed on the wind
energy systems unless required by federal or state law, or FAA regulations.
6.   Abandonment. Any wind energy system that is not operated for a period of
12 consecutive months shall be considered abandoned and shall constitute a
nuisance. The owner shall dismantle and remove the entire system from the
property within 90 days of notice from the City. If the abandoned system is not
removed in the specified amount of time, the City may remove it and recover its
costs from the owner of the property on which it is located.
CHAPTER 148
OUTDOOR FURNACES
 
148.01 Purpose    148.03 Outdoor Furnaces Prohibited
148.02 Definition
 
148.01   PURPOSE.
The Council finds that odors and emissions resulting from the use of outdoor
furnaces can be detrimental to public health and deprive neighboring residents
of the enjoyment of their property. The purpose of this chapter is to ban
completely the installation, construction, and operation of outdoor furnaces
within the City in order to secure and promote public health, comfort,
convenience, safety, and welfare.
148.02   DEFINITION.
For use in this chapter, “outdoor furnace” means any equipment, device, or
apparatus which is installed, affixed, or situated outdoors or within another
structure for the primary purpose of combustion of fuel to produce heat or
energy used as a component of a heating system providing heat or hot water to
any other structure.
148.03   OUTDOOR FURNACES PROHIBITED.
No person shall install, construct or operate an outdoor furnace within the
City limits.
CHAPTER 150
BUILDING NUMBERING
 
150.01 Definitions        150.03 Building Numbering Plan
150.02 Owner Requirements
 
150.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Owner” means the owner of the principal building.
2.   “Principal building” means the main building on any lot or subdivision
thereof.
150.02   OWNER REQUIREMENTS.
Every owner shall comply with the following numbering requirements:
1.   Obtain Building Number. The owner shall obtain the assigned number to the
principal building from the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
2.   Display Building Number. The owner shall place or cause to be installed
and maintained on the principal building the assigned number in a conspicuous
place to the street in figures not less than two and one-half inches in height
and of a contrasting color with their background.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
3.   Failure to Comply. If an owner refuses to number a building as herein
provided, or fails to do so for a period of 30 days after being notified in
writing by the City to do so, the City may proceed to place the assigned number
on the principal building and assess the costs against the property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
150.03   BUILDING NUMBERING PLAN.
Building numbers shall be assigned in accordance with the building numbering
plan on file in the office of the Clerk.
CHAPTER 151
TREES
151.01 Purpose                         151.10 Permits and Licenses Required
151.02 Definitions                     151.11 Exemptions
151.03 Planting Restrictions in Public 151.12 Planting Restrictions
Right-of-Way
151.04 Arboricultural Specifications   151.13 Felling of Trees and Limbs onto
and Standards of Practice              Streets
151.05 Prohibited Trees                151.14 Materials Fastened to Trees
                                       Require Permit
151.06 Tree Recommendations for        151.15 Construction Pollutants Not
Planting                               Allowed
151.07 Duty to Trim Trees              151.16 Erect Barriers for Protection of
                                       Trees
151.08 Trimming Trees to be Supervised 151.17 Destroying of Trees
151.09 Removal of Trees                151.18 Tree Topping
 
151.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and preserve the appearance of the
City by requiring trees, shrubs, and bushes to be uniformly located, and to
regulate the planting and care of such trees, shrubs, and bushes in the City
for the protection of public health, safety, and welfare. The primary
responsibility of maintaining street trees is placed upon the abutting property
owner or said owner’s designated agent, and the designated City staff shall
personally supervise and extensive trimming or cutting of said trees.
151.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Designated City staff” means the working supervisor–director of public
works or such other person–as may be designated by the City Council.
2.   “Parking” means that part of the street, avenue, or highway in the City
not covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot and the curb lines, or on
unpaved streets, that part of the street, avenue, or highway lying between the
lot line and that portion of the street usually traveled by vehicular traffic.
3.   “Private property” means all property not owned by the City.
4.   “Property owner” means a person owning private property in the City as
shown by County records. This term includes the term “agent,” “occupant,”
“tenant,” and “person in control” of the property.
5.   “Public property” means any and all property located within the confines
of the City and owned by the City or held in the name of the City by any
departments, commissions, or agencies within the City government.
6.   “Public right-of-way” means all the land lying between the property lines
on either side of all public streets, avenues, highways, and alleys, including
public easements and grants to the City.
7.   “Street” means the entire width between property lines, including the
parking and the public right-of-way, and that portion of the roadway usually
traveled by vehicular traffic.
151.03   PLANTING RESTRICTIONS IN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
It is unlawful for any person to plant any tree, shrub, or bush in any public-
right-of-way or parking. The City may plant trees, shrubs, or bushes in the
public right-of-way as part of an approved City project, like landscaped
medians and boulevards.
151.04   ARBORICULTURAL SPECIFICATIONS AND STANDARDS OF PRACTICE.
No tree shall be planted in any parking or street except in accordance with the
following:
1.   Alignment. All trees planted in any street shall be planted in the parking
midway between the outer line of the sidewalk and the curb. In the event a curb
line is not established, trees shall be planted on a line 10 feet from the
property line.
2.   Spacing. Trees shall not be planted on any parking that is less that nine
feet in width, or contains less than 81 square feet of exposed soil surface per
tree. Trees shall not be planted closer than 20 feet from street intersections
(property lines extended) and 10 feet from driveways. If it is all possible
trees should be planted inside the property lines and not between the sidewalk
and the curb. No tree that will attain a mature height of 30 feet may be
planted under existing utility lines.
3.   Street Trees. Trees and shrubs planted within the street limit, and trees
having a trunk more than 50 percent within the public street, as defined above,
are referred to as “street trees.” The planting of street trees shall be done
by the City or owner of abutting private property only in accordance with the
planting plan approved by the City Council and on file in City Hall. Permits
will be issued without charge.
151.05   PROHIBITED TREES.
The following species of trees are not permitted to be planted in any street or
public place in the City:
 
American Elm    Cottonwood                 Poplar
Black Locust    European Mountain Ash      Siberian Elm
Black Walnut    or any species of Ash Tree Silver Maple
Bolleana Poplar Evergreen                  Tree of Heaven
Box Elder       Fruit Trees                Weeping Birch
Catalpa         except ornamentals         White Poplar
Chinese Elm     Lombardy Poplar            Willow
 
No conifers should be planted between the sidewalk and the curb of any City
street for safety and visibility considerations. See Section
151.06 for trees recommended for planting.
151.06   TREE RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PLANTING.
The following list constitutes the official Tree Recommendations for Planting
for the City. Although other species are not prohibited, property owners are
encouraged to plant these species:
 
American Linden    Honey Locust         Red Maple
American Sycamore  Hybrid Elm           Silver Linden
Black Maple        Little Leaf Linden   Sugar Maple
Black Oak          Kentucky Coffee Tree Swamp White Oak
Burr Oak           Norway Maple         White Oak
Ginkgo (male only)
 
151.07   DUTY TO TRIM TREES.
The owner or agent of the abutting property shall keep the trees on, or
overhanging the street, trimmed so that all branches will be at least 15 feet
above the surface of the street and eight feet above the sidewalks. All trees,
shrubs, and bushes which overhang onto the sidewalk of the City must be trimmed
to a height of eight feet immediately above such sidewalk. If the abutting
property owner fails to trim the trees in accordance with this chapter, the
City may serve notice on the abutting property owner requiring that such action
be taken within five days. If such action is not taken within that time, the
City may perform the required action and assess the costs against the abutting
property for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
The City shall have the authority to order the property owner, agent, or
occupant of the property adjoining the streets to prune, maintain, and care for
all trees, shrubs, and bushes located on the street, public right-of-way, or
parking which have become dangerous to the public or which may interfere with
the regular movement of traffic upon the streets in a safe manner, by serving
notice upon the property owner to comply with the order. This order is in
addition to the requirements that all trees, shrubs, and bushes be trimmed as
above described. Should the adjoining property owner, agent, or occupant fail
to comply with said order within 30 days after receiving notice from the City,
then the City may order the pruning or maintenance of such trees, shrubs, and
bushes, and assess the costs thereof against the abutting property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
151.08   TRIMMING TREES TO BE SUPERVISED.
Except as allowed in Section
151.07, it is unlawful for any person to trim or cut any tree in a street or
public place unless the work is done under the supervision of the City.
151.09   REMOVAL OF TREES.
1.   The designated City staff shall remove, on the order of the City Council,
any tree on the streets of the City which interferes with the making of
improvements or with travel thereon. Said official may remove any tree standing
on public property, or in the public right-of-way or parking thereof, which is
dead, diseased, or declared to be a nuisance to public safety. No compensation
shall be paid to the abutting property owner regardless of whether the City or
the property owner placed the tree in the public right-of-way or parking.
2.   The City has the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove trees,
plants, and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to insure public safety or to
preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. The City
may remove or cause or order to be removed any tree or part thereof which is in
an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers,
electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements, or
is affected with any injurious fungus, insect, or other pest; provided however,
such removal shall be conducted in accordance with tree removal policies of
this chapter. This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by
adjacent property owners providing that the selection and location of said
trees is in accordance with this chapter, and that a valid planting has been
obtained from City Hall.
3.   Any person desiring to remove a live tree which has been planted in the
public right-of-way or parking shall first obtain a permit from City Hall. If a
permit is issued, the permittee must remove the tree at the permittee’s own
expense. No fee shall be charged for the permit to remove the tree.
4.   The City has the right to determine a hazardous tree on private property
that is a threat to public safety, and issue a 30-day notice to remove to the
owner. If not removed in 30 days, the City shall remove it at the owner’s
expense and assess the costs against the property owner for collection in the
same manner as a property tax. The owner has the right to appeal said decision
in front of the City Council.
5.   Cutting or trimming a tree where there is risk of limbs, branches, or any
other portion of the tree falling or coming into contact with electric utility
lines is prohibited without the express permission of the electric utility.
151.10   PERMITS AND LICENSES REQUIRED.
1.   Except as allowed in Section
151.07 of this chapter, no person shall cut or remove any plant, tree, or shrub
on the streets or on public property without first obtaining a permit from City
Hall, who shall issue said permit if the proposed work is necessary and the
proposed methods and workmanship satisfactory.
2.   The City may demand the posting of bond or insurance before the permit is
granted. Such bond or insurance shall be of sufficient amount to reasonably
cover any damages that may occur to life or property while the provisions of
the permit are being carried out.
3.   Every permit granted in accordance with this section by the City shall
describe the work to be done, the estimated cost, define the species, sizes,
and location of all trees and shrubs concerned, and contain a definite date of
expiration.
4.   Any permit may be declared void if the terms are violated.
5.   No person shall engage in the business of removing, cutting, or trimming
trees or shrubbery in the City without first obtaining a license therefor. The
applicant shall submit a written application to City Hall setting forth said
person’s experience and qualifications. Upon determination by the Council that
such person is qualified, he or she shall be granted a license, which shall
allow the removal, cutting, and trimming of trees and shrubbery in the City.
The license shall be valid for one year, commencing January 1, and terminating
December 31, of each year. The license fee shall be established by resolution
of the Council and shall be paid prior to the issuance of the license. No
trimming, cutting, or removal shall be done until the license has been
obtained.
6.   Any person, before engaging in the business or occupation of removing,
cutting, or trimming trees in the City shall furnish satisfactory evidence to
the City that the workers employed by that person are covered by a suitable
worker’s compensation policy according to the laws of the State. The
certificate must be on file in the office of the City Clerk before the permit
shall be issued.
151.11   EXEMPTIONS.
Section
151.10 does not apply to the following:
1.   The United States of America, the State, and county, municipality, or
political subdivisions of the State, any department, bureau, or agency or any
of the foregoing or any official representative of any of the foregoing in
pursuit of official duties.
2.   Any person with reference to trees and shrubs on such person’s own
premises.
3.   Any individual performing labor or services on or in connection with trees
at the direction and under the personal supervision of a licensed tree trimmer
while in the performance of such functions.
4.   Any public utility engaged in tree trimming or tree removal for the
purpose of line clearance in order to insure the continuity of utility service
to the public.
151.12   PLANTING RESTRICTIONS.
1.   No tree may be planted within any public utility easement without written
permission of the City. No tree shall be planted under existing lines if, at
maturity, it is likely to cause interference with those lines.
2.   Trees stipulated by City ordinance, planted in and around parking lots,
with the intent to provide shade for such parking lots, shall have a caliper of
at least two inches at the time of planting and an anticipated mature height of
at least 15 feet.
151.13   FELLING OF TREES AND LIMBS ONTO STREET.
If a tree or limb will fall on any street, alley, or sidewalk, the designated
City staff must be notified prior to felling.
1.   The person to whom the permit is issued shall be responsible for placing
such signs, flags, flares, and barricades as are needed to warn person of the
danger of using the street, sidewalk, or alley.
2.   Trees or branches which are felled or trimmed onto public property must be
removed immediately unless an extension of time is granted by the designated
City staff in writing.
3.   Stump removal cavities must be cleared and refilled with soil in the same
operation. At no time shall a cavity remain unfilled overnight.
151.14   MATERIALS FASTENED TO TREES REQUIRE PERMIT.
No person shall fasten any sign, box, wire, rope, or other materials to,
around, or through any tree or shrub in any street, park, or public place in
the City except by the permission of the City Council or when such materials
are designed to preserve such tree or shrub and have been placed under a permit
granted by City Hall.
151.15   CONSTRUCTION POLLUTANTS NOT ALLOWED.
No person shall deposit, place, store, or maintain upon and street, park, or
public place in the City any stone, brick, sand, concrete, or other material
which shall impede the free passage of water, air, and fertilizer to the roots
of any tree or shrub growing therein except by permission of the City Council
or when such materials are designed for the construction of sidewalks,
pavement, gutters, or other public improvements under a permit granted by the
City or some department thereof.
151.16   ERECT BARRIERS FOR PROTECTION OF TREES.
During all building and construction operations, the contractor or builder
shall erect suitable protective barricades around all trees and shrubs in any
street, park, or public place in the City in order to prevent said trees from
being injured. Additionally, an appropriate drip line of the trees and shrubs
must be maintained without impact to the trees or shrubs by grading or
compacting the soil for construction purposes.
151.17   DESTROYING OF TREES.
No person shall break, deface, injure, kill, or destroy any tree or shrub or
set fire or permit any fire to burn where such fire or heat thereof will injure
any portion of any tree or shrub in any street, park, or public place in the
City.
151.18   TREE TOPPING.
It is unlawful as a normal practice for any person or City department to top
any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property. Topping is
defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches
in diameter within the tree’s crown to such degree so as to remove the normal
canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other
causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other
pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this section at the
determination of the City Council.
CHAPTER 160
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
 
160.01 Definitions                       160.06 Standards for Floodplain
                                         (Overlay) District
160.02 Statutory Authority, Findings of  160.07 Establishment of Appeal and
Fact, and Purpose                        Variance Procedures
160.03 General Provisions                160.08 Nonconforming Uses
160.04 Administration                    160.09 Penalties for Violation
160.05 Establishment of Zoning (Overlay) 160.10 Amendments
District
 
160.01   DEFINITIONS.
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
1.   “Appurtenant structure” means a structure which is on the same parcel of
the property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure.
2.   “Base flood” means the flood having one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year (also commonly referred to as the “100-year flood”).
3.   “Base flood elevation” (BFE) means the elevation floodwaters would reach
at a particular site during the occurrence of a base flood event.
4.   “Basement” means any enclosed area of a building which has its floor or
lowest level below ground level (subgrade) on all sides. Also see “lowest
floor.”
5.   “Development” means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations, or storage
of equipment or materials. “Development” does not include minor projects or
routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities, as defined in this
section. It also does not include gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling or grading.
6.   “Enclosed area below lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest enclosed
area in a building when all the following criteria are met:
   A.   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic pressure
during flood events with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions of
Section
160.06(5)(A) of this chapter; and
   B.   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, drywalled, etc.) and
used solely for low damage potential uses such as building access, parking, or
storage; and
   C.   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater, furnace,
electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at least one
foot above the base flood elevation; and
   D.   The enclosed area is not a basement, as defined in this section.
7.   “Existing construction” means any structure for which the start of
construction commenced before the effective date of the first floodplain
management regulations adopted by the community.
8.   “Existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the
community.
9.   “Expansion of existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means the
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
10.   “Factory-built home” means any structure, designed for residential use
which is wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed, or assembled
in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation, on a
building site. For the purpose of this chapter factory-built homes include
mobile homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes; and also includes
recreational vehicles which are placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days and not fully licensed for and ready for highway use.
11.   “Factory-built home park or subdivision” means a parcel or contiguous
parcels of land divided into two or more factory-built home lots for sale or
lease.
12.   “500-year flood” means a flood, the magnitude of which has a two-tenths
percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year or which, on
average, will be equaled or exceeded at least once every 500 years.
13.   “Flood” means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or
rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
14.   “Flood insurance rate map” (FIRM) means the official map prepared as part
of (but published separately from) the Flood Insurance Study which delineates
both the flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the
community.
15.   “Flood insurance study” (FIS) means a report published by FEMA for a
community issued along with the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Maps. The
study contains such background data as the base flood discharge and water
surface elevations that were used to prepare the FIRM.
16.   “Floodplain” means any land area susceptible to being inundated by water
as a result of a flood.
17.   “Floodplain management” means an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use of
floodplains, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans, flood
control works, floodproofing, and floodplain management regulations.
18.   “Flood proofing” means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, including utility and
sanitary facilities, which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to such
structures.
19.   “Floodway” means the channel of a river or stream and those portions of
the floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to carry
and discharge flood waters or flood flows so that confinement of flood flows to
the floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water surface elevation of
the base flood by more than one foot.
20.   “Floodway fringe” means those portions of the special flood hazard area
outside the floodway.
21.   “Highest adjacent grade” means the highest natural elevation of the
ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
22.   “Historic structure” means any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places,
maintained by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily determined by the
Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing of
the National Register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary
of the Interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either: (i) by an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or (ii) directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
23.   “Lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest enclosed area in a building
including a basement except when the criteria listed in the definition of
“enclosed area below lowest floor” are met.
24.   “Maximum damage potential development” means hospitals and like
institutions; buildings or building complexes containing documents, data, or
instruments of great public value; buildings or building complexes containing
materials dangerous to the public or fuel storage facilities; power
installations needed in emergency or other buildings or building complexes
similar in nature or use.
25.   “Minor projects” means small development activities (except for filling,
grading, and excavating) valued at less than $500.00.
26.   “New construction” (new buildings, factory-built home parks, accessory
structures) means those structures or development for which the start of
construction commenced on or after the effective date of the first floodplain
management regulations adopted by the community.
27.   “New factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built home
park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the
lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after
the effective date of the effective date of the first floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
28.   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
29.   “Routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities” means repairs
necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that do not
trigger a building permit, provided they are not associated with a general
improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such repairs
include:
   A.   Normal maintenance of structures such as re-roofing, replacing roofing
tiles, and replacing siding.
   B.   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets,
counter tops, and similar finish work.
   C.   Basement sealing.
   D.   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes.
   E.   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating or air
conditioning systems, and repairing wells or septic systems.
30.   “Special flood hazard area” (SFHA) means the land within a community
subject to the base flood. This land is identified on the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map as Zone A, A1-30, AE, AH, AO, AR, or A99.
31.   “Start of construction” includes substantial improvement, and means the
date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement or permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as pouring of a slab or footings, the installation of pile, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a factory-built home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
32.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected on the ground or
attached to the ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, factories,
sheds, cabins, factory-built homes, storage tanks, grain storage facilities, or
other similar uses.
33.   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a structure
whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition
would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure before
the damage occurred. Volunteer labor and donated materials shall be included in
the estimated cost of repair.
Substantial damage also means flood-related damages sustained by a structure on
two separate occasions during a 10-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25 percent of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred. Volunteer labor
and donated materials shall be included in the estimated cost of repair.
34.   “Substantial improvement” means any improvement to a structure which
satisfies either of the following criteria:
   A.   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure either:
(i) before the start of construction of the improvement; or (ii) if the
structure has been substantially damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred.
Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure taking place during a
10-year period, the cumulative cost of which, equals or exceeds 50 percent of
the market value of the structure either: (i) before the start of construction
of the first improvement of the structure; or (ii) if the structure has been
substantially damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred.
The term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a structure
to correct existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety
code specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement
official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
The term also does not include any alteration of a historic structure, provided
the alteration will not preclude the structure’s designation as a historic
structure.
   B.   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a building by
25 percent or more. All additions constructed after the effective date of the
first floodplain management regulations adopted by the community shall be added
to any proposed addition in determining whether the total increase in original
floor space would exceed 25 percent.
35.   “Variance” means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of the
floodplain management regulations.
36.   “Violation” means the failure of a structure or other development to be
fully compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
160.02   STATUTORY AUTHORITY, FINDINGS OF FACT, AND PURPOSE.
1.   The Legislature of the State of Iowa has, in Chapter 414 of the Code of
Iowa, as amended, delegated the power to cities to enact zoning regulations to
secure safety from flood and to promote health and the general welfare.
2.   Findings of Fact.
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic inundation
which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare of
the community.
   B.   These flood losses, hazards, and related adverse effects are caused by:
(i) the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood damages
which create hazardous conditions as a result of being inadequately elevated or
otherwise protected from flooding; and (ii) the cumulative effect of
obstructions on the floodplain causing increases in flood heights and
velocities.
   C.   This chapter relies upon engineering methodology for analyzing flood
hazards which is consistent with the standards established by the Department of
Natural Resources.
3.   Statement of Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to protect and
preserve the rights, privileges, and property of the City and its residents and
to preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, and comfort and
convenience of its residents by minimizing those flood losses described in
Paragraph 2(A) of this section with provisions designed to:
   A.   Reserve sufficient floodplain area for the conveyance of flood flows so
that flood heights and velocities will not be increased substantially.
   B.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities.
   C.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction or substantial improvement.
   D.   Protect individuals from buying lands which may not be suited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard.
   E.   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance
Program.
160.03   GENERAL PROVISIONS.
1.   Lands to Which Ordinance Apply. The provisions of this ordinance shall
apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the City which are located within
the boundaries of the Floodplain (Overlay) District as established in (Chapter
160.05).
(Ord. 2022-04OR – Jul. 23 Supp.)
2.   Establishment of Official Floodplain Zoning Map. The Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Grundy County and Incorporated Areas, City of Reinbeck, Panels
19075C0355C, 0375C, dated December 20th, 2019, which were prepared as part of
the Flood Insurance Study for Grundy County is hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be the Official Floodplain Zoning Map. The Grundy County Flood
Insurance Study is hereby adopted by reference and is made a part of this
chapter for the purpose of administering floodplain management regulations.
3.   Rules for Interpretation of Floodplain (Overlay) District. The boundaries
of the Floodplain (Overlay) District areas shall be determined by scaling
distances on the official Flood Insurance Rate Map. When an interpretation is
needed as to the exact location of a boundary, the Zoning Administrator shall
make the necessary interpretation. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and
decide appeals when it is alleged that there is an error in any requirement,
decision, or determination made by the Zoning Administrator in the enforcement
or administration of this chapter.
4.   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be used, and no structure
shall be located, extended, converted, or structurally altered without full
compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations
which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
5.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. It is not intended by this chapter to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent
with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
6.   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the provisions of
this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by State statutes.
7.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The standards required by this
chapter are considered reasonable for regulatory purposes. This chapter does
not imply that areas outside the designated Floodplain (Overlay) District areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the City or any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
8.   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
160.04   ADMINISTRATION.
1.   Appointment, Duties and Responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator.
   A.   The Zoning Administrator is hereby appointed to implement and
administer the provisions of this chapter and will herein be referred to as the
Administrator.
   B.   Duties and responsibilities of the Administrator shall include, but not
necessarily be limited to the following:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permit applications to assure
that the provisions of this chapter will be satisfied.
      (2)   Review floodplain development applications to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from federal, State, and local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Department of
Natural Resources for floodplain construction.
      (3)   Record and maintain a record of: (i) the elevation (in relation to
North American Vertical Datum 1988) of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new or substantially improved structures; or (ii) the elevation to which
new or substantially improved structures have been floodproofed.
      (4)   Notify adjacent communities and counties and the Department of
Natural Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a
watercourse and submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
      (5)   Keep a record of all permits, appeals and such other transactions
and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this chapter.
      (6)   Submit to the Federal Insurance Administration an annual report
concerning the community’s participation, utilizing the annual report form
supplied by the Federal Insurance Administration.
      (7)   Notify the Federal Insurance Administration of any annexations or
modifications to the community’s boundaries.
      (8)   Review subdivision proposals to ensure such proposals are
consistent with the purpose of this chapter and advise the Board of Adjustment
of potential conflict.
      (9)   Maintain the accuracy of the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Maps
when:
         a.   Development placed within the floodway results in either of the
following: (i) an increase in the base flood elevations; or (ii) alteration to
the floodway boundary;
         b.   Development placed in Zones A, AE, AH, and A1-30 that does not
include a designated floodway that will cause a rise of more than one foot in
the base elevation; or
         c.   Development relocates or alters the channel.
Within six months of the completion of the development, the applicant shall
submit to FEMA all scientific and technical data necessary for a Letter of Map
Revision.
      (10)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with the standards
of this chapter.
      (11)   Forward all requests for variances to the Board of Adjustment for
consideration. Ensure all requests include the information ordinarily submitted
with applications as well as any additional information deemed necessary to the
Board of Adjustment.
2.   Floodplain Development Permit.
   A.   Permit Required. A Floodplain Development Permit issued by the
Administrator shall be secured prior to any floodplain development (any manmade
change to improved and unimproved real estate, including but not limited to
buildings or other structures, mining, filling, grading, paving, storage of
materials and equipment, excavation, or drilling operations), including the
placement of factory-built homes.
   B.   Application for Permit. Application shall be made on forms furnished by
the Administrator and shall include the following:
      (1)   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is to be made.
      (2)   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done
(e.g., lot, block, track, street address or similar description) that will
readily identify and locate the work to be done.
      (3)   Location and dimensions of all structures and additions.
      (4)   Indication of the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended.
      (5)   Elevation of the base flood.
      (6)   Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) of
the lowest floor (including basement) of structures or of the level to which a
structure is to be floodproofed.
      (7)   For structures being improved or rebuilt, the estimated cost of
improvements and market value of the structure prior to the improvements.
      (8)   Such other information as the Administrator deems reasonably
necessary (e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of this chapter.
   C.   Action on Permit Application. The Administrator shall, within a
reasonable time, make a determination as to whether the proposed floodplain
development meets the applicable standards of this chapter and shall approve or
disapprove the application. For disapprovals, the applicant shall be informed,
in writing, of the specific reasons therefor. The Administrator shall not issue
permits for variances except as directed by the Board of Adjustment.
   D.   Construction and Use to Be as Provided in Application and Plans.
Floodplain Development Permits based on the basis of approved plans and
applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in
such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement, or
construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. The applicant shall be
required to submit certification by a professional engineer or land surveyor,
as appropriate, registered in the State of Iowa, that the finished fill,
structure floor elevations, flood proofing, or other flood protection measures
were accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to
the use or occupancy of any structure.
160.05   ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING (OVERLAY) DISTRICT.
The floodplain areas within the jurisdiction of this chapter are hereby divided
into the following districts:
1.   Floodplain (Overlay) District – those areas identified as Zone A on the
Official Floodplain Zoning Map.
The boundaries shall be as shown on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map. Within
these districts, all uses not allowed as permitted uses are prohibited unless a
variance to the terms of this chapter is granted after due consideration by the
Board of Adjustment.
160.06   STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAIN (OVERLAY) DISTRICT.
1.   Permitted Uses.
   A.   All development within the Floodplain District shall be permitted to
the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance (or underlying
zoning district) and provided they meet the applicable performance standards of
the Floodplain District.
   B.   Any development which involves placement of structures, factory-built
homes, fill or other obstructions, storage of materials or equipment,
excavation or alteration of a watercourse shall be reviewed by the Department
of Natural Resources to determine (i) whether the land involved is either
wholly or partly within the floodway or floodway fringe and (ii) the base flood
elevation. The applicant shall be responsible for providing the Department of
Natural Resources with sufficient technical information to make the
determination.
   C.   Review by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources is not required for
the proposed construction of new or replacement bridges or culverts where:
      (1)   The bridge or culvert is located on a stream that drains less than
two square miles, and
      (2)   The bridge or culvert is not associated with a channel modification
that constitutes a channel change as specified in 567-71.2(2), Iowa
Administrative Code.
2.   Performance Standards. All development must be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage and meet the following applicable performance standards.
Where base flood elevations and floodway data have not been provided in the
Flood Insurance Study, the Iowa Department of Natural Resources shall be
contacted to compute such data. The applicant will be responsible for providing
the Department of Natural Resources with sufficient technical information to
make such determination. All development shall:
   A.   Be designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement.
   B.   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood damage.
   C.   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant to
flood damage.
3.   Residential Structures. All new or substantially improved residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated a minimum
of one foot above the base flood elevation. Construction shall be upon
compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no lower than one foot above the
base flood elevation and extend at such elevation at least 18 feet beyond the
limits of any structure erected thereon. Alternate methods of elevating (such
as piers or extended foundations) may be allowed subject to favorable
consideration by the Board of Adjustment, where existing topography, street
grades, or other factors preclude elevating by fill. In such cases, the methods
used must be adequate to support the structure as well as withstand the various
forces and hazards associated with flooding. All new residential structures
located in areas that would become isolated due to flooding of surrounding
ground shall be provided with a means of access that will be passable by
wheeled vehicles during the base flood. However, this criterion shall not apply
where the Administrator determines there is sufficient flood warning time for
the protection of life and property. When estimating flood warning time,
consideration shall be given to the criteria listed in 567-75.2(3), Iowa
Administrative Code.
4.   Nonresidential Structures. All new or substantially improved
nonresidential structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation, or together with
attendant utility and sanitary systems, be floodproofed to such a level. When
floodproofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in the State of
Iowa shall certify that the floodproofing methods used are adequate to
withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact, and uplift forces
and other factors associated with the base flood; and that the structure, below
the base flood elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water. A record of the certification indicating the specific
elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Administrator.
5.   All New and Substantially Improved Structures.
   A.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (not including basements)
that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
      (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
A minimum of two openings, with positioning on at least two walls, having a
total net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of
enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
Such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles, building access, and
low damage potential storage. Where the distance between the floor and ceiling
of the fully enclosed area below the lowest floor is five feet or more, the
applicant shall be required to sign and record with the County Recorder a Non-
Conversion Agreement that ensures the lower enclosed area remains compliant
with the criteria outlined in this paragraph
   B.   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   C.   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed with
electric meter, electrical service panel box, hot water heater, heating, air
conditioning, ventilation equipment (including ductwork), and other similar
machinery and equipment elevated (or in the case on non-residential structures,
optionally floodproofed to) a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation.
   D.   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed with
plumbing, gas lines, water meters, gas meters, and other similar service
utilities either elevated (or in the case of non-residential structures,
optionally floodproofed to) a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation or designed to be watertight and withstand inundation to such a
level.
6.   Factory-Built Homes.
   A.   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including those
placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be elevated
on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the structure is a
minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation.
   B.   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including those
placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be anchored
to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Anchorage systems may
include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground
anchors as required by the State Building Code.
7.   Utility and Sanitary Systems.
   A.   On-site waste disposal and water supply systems shall be located or
designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the system
during flooding.
   B.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system as well as
the discharge of effluent into flood waters. Wastewater treatment facilities
(other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a level of flood protection
equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood elevation.
   C.   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system. Water supply
treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a
level of protection equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood
elevation.
   D.   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.
8.   Storage of Materials and Equipment. Storage of equipment and materials
that are flammable, explosive, or injurious to human, animal, or plant life is
prohibited unless elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation. Other material and equipment must either be similarly elevated or:
(i) not subject to major flood damage and be anchored to prevent movement due
to flood waters; or (ii) readily removable from the area within the time
available after flood warning.
9.   Flood Control Structures. Flood control structural works such as levees,
flood walls, etc. shall provide, at a minimum, protection from the base flood
with a minimum of three feet of design freeboard and shall provide for adequate
interior drainage. In addition, structural flood control works shall be
approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
10.   Watercourse Alterations. Watercourse alterations or relocations must be
designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion. In addition, such alterations or relocations must be
approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
11.   Subdivisions. Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks and
subdivisions) shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
Development associated with subdivision proposals (including the installation
of public utilities) shall meet the applicable performance standards of this
chapter. Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide all
lots with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during
the base flood. Proposals for subdivisions greater than five acres or 50 lots
(whichever is less) shall include base flood elevation data for those areas
located within the Floodplain (Overlay) District.
12.   Accessory Structures to Residential Uses. Detached garages, sheds, and
similar structures that are incidental to a residential use are exempt from the
base flood elevation requirements where the following criteria are satisfied.
   A.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage potential. Its
size shall not exceed 600 square feet in size. Those portions of the structure
located less than one foot above the BFE must be constructed of flood-resistant
materials.
   B.   The structure shall be used solely for low flood damage potential
purposes such as vehicle parking and limited storage. The structure shall not
be used for human habitation.
   C.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site so
as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
   D.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
and lateral movement which may result in damage to other structures.
   E.   The structure's service facilities such as electrical and heating
equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed to at least one foot above the base
flood elevation.
   F.   The structure’s walls shall include openings that satisfy the
provisions of Subsection 5(A) of this section.
Exemption from the base flood elevation requirements for such a structure may
result in increased premium rates for flood insurance coverage of the structure
and its contents.
13.   Recreational Vehicles.
   A.   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the requirements of Subsection 6
of this section regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built homes when
the following criteria are satisfied.
      (1)   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for less than
180 consecutive days; and
      (2)   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
   B.   Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more than 180
consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must satisfy requirements of
Subsection 6 of this section regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built
homes.
14.   Pipeline Crossings. Pipeline river and stream crossings shall be buried
in the streambed and banks, or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent
rupture due to channel degradation and meandering.
15.   Maximum Damage Potential Development. All new or substantially improved
maximum damage potential development shall have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated a minimum of one foot above the elevation of the 500-year
flood, or together with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be floodproofed
to such a level. When floodproofing is utilized, a professional engineer
registered in the State of Iowa shall certify that the floodproofing methods
used are adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact,
and uplift forces and other factors associated with the two-tenths percent
annual chance flood; and that the structure, below the two-tenths percent
annual chance flood elevation is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water. A record of the certification indicating
the specific elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to
which any structures are flood proofed shall be maintained by the
Administrator. Where two-tenths percent chance flood elevation data has not
been provided in the Flood Insurance Study, the Iowa Department of Natural
Resources shall be contacted to compute such data. The applicant will be
responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources with sufficient
technical information to make such determinations.
160.07   ESTABLISHMENT OF APPEAL AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide: (i) appeals; and (ii) requests
for variances to the provisions of this chapter, and shall take any other
action which is required of the Board.
1.   Appeals. Where it is alleged there is any error in any order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by an administrative official in the
enforcement of this chapter, the aggrieved party may appeal such action. The
notice of appeal shall be filed with the Board and with the official from whom
the appeal is taken and shall set forth the specific reason for the appeal. The
official from whom the appeal is taken shall transmit to the Board all the
documents constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken.
2.   Variance. The Board may authorize upon request in specific cases such
variances from the terms of this chapter that will not be contrary to the
public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary hardship. Variances
granted must meet the following applicable standards.
   A.   Variances shall only be granted upon: (i) a showing of good and
sufficient cause; (ii) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and (iii) a determination that
the granting of the variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with
existing local codes or ordinances.
   B.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood would result. Consideration of
the effects of any development on flood levels shall be based upon the
assumption that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly
situated lands.
   C.   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   D.   In cases where the variance involves a lower level of flood protection
for structures than what is ordinarily required by this chapter, the applicant
shall be notified in writing over the signature of the Administrator that: (i)
the issuance of a variance will result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance up to amounts as high as $25.00 for $100.00 of insurance coverage;
and (ii) such construction increases risks to life and property.
   E.   All variances granted shall have the concurrence or approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
3.   Hearings and Decisions of the Board.
   A.   Hearings. Upon the filing with the Board of an appeal or a request for
a variance, the Board shall hold a public hearing. The Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the hearing and give public notice thereof, as well as due
notice to parties in interest. At the hearing, any party may appear in person
or by agent or attorney and present written or oral evidence. The Board may
require the appellant or applicant to provide such information as is reasonably
deemed necessary and may request the technical assistance or evaluation of a
professional engineer or other expert person or agency, including the
Department of Natural Resources.
   B.   Decisions. The Board shall arrive at a decision on an appeal or
variance within a reasonable time. In passing upon an appeal, the Board may, so
long as such action is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter,
reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination appealed from, and it shall make its decision, in
writing, setting forth the findings of fact and the reasons for its decision.
In granting a variance, the Board shall consider such factors as contained in
this section and all other relevant sections of this chapter and may prescribe
such conditions as contained in Subparagraph (2) below.
      (1)   Factors Upon Which the Decision of the Board Shall Be Based. In
passing upon applications for variances, the Board shall consider all relevant
factors specified in other sections of this chapter and:
         a.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments.
         b.   The danger that materials may be swept on to other land or
downstream to the injury of others.
         c.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability
of these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary conditions.
         d.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
         e.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the City.
         f.   The requirements of the facility for a floodplain location.
         g.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use.
         h.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development
and development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
         i.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for the area.
         j.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
         k.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood water expected at the site.
         l.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer,
gas, electrical, and water systems), facilities, streets, and bridges.
         m.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this
chapter.
      (2)   Conditions Attached to Variances. Upon consideration of the factors
listed above, the Board may attach such conditions to the granting of variances
as it deems necessary to further the purpose of this chapter. Such conditions
may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
         a.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
         b.   Limitation of periods of use and operation.
         c.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
         d.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes,
levees, and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the
Department of Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative
to achieving the purpose of this chapter.
         e.   Floodproofing measures shall be designed consistent with the
flood protection elevation for the particular area, flood velocities, duration,
rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, and other factors associated
with the regulatory flood. The Board shall require that the applicant submit a
plan or document certified by a registered professional engineer that the
floodproofing measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection
elevation and associated flood factors for the particular area.
4.   Appeals to the Court. Any person or persons, jointly or severally,
aggrieved by any decision of the Board may present to a court of record a
petition, duly verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole
or in part, specifying the grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be
presented to the court within 30 days after the filing of the decision in the
office of the Board.
160.08   NONCONFORMING USES.
A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful before the
passage or amendment of the ordinance codified in this chapter, but which is
not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, may be continued subject
to the following conditions:
1.   If such use is discontinued for six consecutive months, any future use of
the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
2.   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
3.   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means, including
flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50 percent of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred, unless it is
reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
State or local health, sanitary, building, or safety codes or regulations or
the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation.
Except as provided in Subsection 2 of this section, any use which has been
permitted as a variance shall be considered a conforming use.
160.09   PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
Violations of the provisions of this ordinance or failure to comply with any of
the requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variances) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any
person who violates this ordinance or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $(500.00
(five hundred dollars) or imprisoned for not more than (30 (thirty) days. Each
day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing
herein contained prevent the City from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy violation.    
(Ord. 2022-04OR – Jul. 23 Supp.)
160.10   AMENDMENTS.
The regulations and standards set forth in this chapter may from time to time
be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed. No amendment, supplement,
change, or modification shall be undertaken without prior approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
CHAPTER 165
ZONING REGULATIONS
165.01 Title                        165.15 Off-street Loading Spaces
165.02 Interpretation of Standards  165.16 Off-street Parking Areas
165.03 Definitions                  165.17 Signs
165.04 Establishment of Districts   165.18 Buffer Screening
165.05 Official Zoning Map          165.19 Board of Adjustment
165.06 Application of District      165.20 Duties of the Board of Adjustment
Regulations
165.07 General Regulations          165.21 Building Permits
165.08 Nonconforming Uses           165.22 Certificate of Occupancy and
                                    Compliance
165.09 Agricultural Zoning District 165.23 Amendments including Rezonings
Regulations
165.10 Residential Zoning District  165.24 Zoning Administrator
Regulations
165.11 Commercial Zoning District   165.25 Violations and Penalties
Regulations
165.12 Industrial Zoning District   165.26 Enforcement
Regulations
165.13 Floodplain Overlay District  165.27 Special Events
Regulations
165.14 Exceptions and Modifications
 
165.01   TITLE.
This chapter establishes comprehensive zoning regulations for the City of
Reinbeck, Iowa, and provides for the administration, enforcement, and amendment
thereof. This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
“Zoning Code” or “City Zoning Ordinance”.
165.02   INTERPRETATION OF STANDARDS.
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall
be held to be minimum requirements. Where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction than is imposed or required by other provisions of law or by other
rules or regulations or ordinances, the provisions of this chapter shall
control.
165.03   DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms or words are defined. The
words “used or occupied” include the words intended, designed, or arranged to
be used or occupied. The word “lot” includes the words property or parcel.
1.   “Accessory building, structure, or use” means a subordinate use or
structure on the same lot which the principal building is situated and which is
reasonably necessary and of a nature subordinate to the principal use of a
building on the lot and serving a purpose customarily incidental to use of the
principal building.
2.   “Adult entertainment business” means and includes any of the following:
   A.   “Adult amusement or entertainment” means an amusement or entertainment
which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on acts or material
depicting, describing, or relating to “sex act” or “specified anatomical
areas,” as defined herein, including, but not limited to, topless or bottomless
dancers, exotic dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators, or similar
entertainment.
   B.   “Adult bookstore” means an establishment having as a significant
portion of its stock in trade books, films, magazines, and other periodicals or
goods and items held for sale which are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matter depicting or describing “sex act” or “specified anatomical
areas.”
   C.   “Adult hotel” means a building with accommodations used for the
temporary occupancy of one or more individuals and is an establishment wherein
material is presented which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing “sex act” or “specified anatomical areas” for
observation by the individuals therein.
   D.   “Adult motion picture arcade” means any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines,
projectors, or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to
five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting
or describing “sex act” or “specified anatomical areas.”
   E.   “Adult motion picture theater” means an enclosed building used for
presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting or describing “sex act” or “specified anatomical areas.”
   F.   “Adult photo studio” means an establishment which, upon payment of a
fee, provides photographic equipment or models for the purpose of photographing
“specified anatomical areas” or “sex acts” as defined herein.
   G.   “Massage parlor” means any building, room, place or establishment,
where manipulated massage or manipulated exercise is practiced for pay upon the
human body with an emphasis on “sex act” or “specified anatomical areas” by
anyone not a duly licensed physician, osteopath, chiropractor, registered nurse
or practical nurse operating under a physician's direction, physical therapist,
registered speech pathologist and physical or occupational therapist who treat
only patients recommended by a licensed physician and operate only under such
physician's direction, whether with or without the use of mechanical,
therapeutic, or bathing devices. The term does not include a regular licensed
hospital, medical clinic or nursing home, duly licensed beauty parlors, or
barber shops.
   H.   “Sexual encounter center” means any business, agency, or person who,
for any form of consideration or gratuity, provides a place where three or more
persons may congregate, assemble, or associate for the purpose of engaging in
“sex act” or exposing “specified anatomical areas.”
   I.   “Sex act,” as used in the definition of “adult entertainment business,”
means any sexual contact, actual or simulated, either natural or deviate,
between two or more persons, or between a person and an animal, by penetration
of the penis into the vagina or anus, or by contact between the mouth or tongue
and genitalia or anus, or by contact between a finger of one person and the
genitalia of another, or by use of artificial sexual organs or substitute
therefor in contact with the genitalia or anus.
   J.   “Specified anatomical areas” means and includes the following: human
genitals, pubic region, buttocks, and female breast below a point immediately
above the top of the areola.
3.   “Alley” means a public way, other than a street, 20 feet or less in width,
affording secondary means of access to abutting property.
4.   “Attic” means a space under a gable, hip, or gambrel, or other roof, the
finished floor of which is, or would be, at or entirely above the level of the
wall plates of at least two exterior walls, and the height of which, from the
floor level to the highest point of the roof, does not exceed 10 feet.
5.   “Basement” means a story having part but no more than one-half of its
height below grade. A basement shall be counted as a story for the purpose of
height regulation. When a story has more than one-half of its height below
grade, the story constitutes a cellar and shall not be counted as a story for
the purpose of height regulation.
6.   “Bed and breakfast” or “B&B” means a facility providing temporary lodging
other than a hotel or boarding house and which are classified as follows:
   A.   A “residential B&B” is owner occupied and has up to and including three
rental units.
   B.   A “B&B inn” may be owner occupied and has up to and including 12 rental
units. More than 12 rental units shall be considered a hotel.
7.   “Beekeeping” means the keeping of one or more hives of honeybees where
honey bee shall mean any stage of the common domestic honeybee.
8.   “Block” means that property abutting on one side of a street and lying
within the two nearest intercepting or intersecting streets, or lying within
the nearest intercepting or intersecting streets and unsubdivided acreage,
railroad right-of-way, or water.
9.   “Boarding house” means a building other than a hotel where, for
compensation, meals and lodging are provided for up to two persons and only as
an accessory use to the principal single-family.
10.   “Building” means any structure having a roof supported by walls or by
columns designed or intended for enclosure, shelter, or housing of persons,
animals, or property.
11.   “Building, height of” means the vertical distance from the average
natural grade at the building line to the highest point of the coping of a flat
roof, or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the mean height level
(between eaves and ridge) for gable, hip, and gambrel roofs.
12.   “Carport” means a roofed structure providing space for the parking of
motor vehicles and enclosed on not more than two sides. For the purposes of
this chapter, a carport attached to a principal building shall be considered as
part of the principal building and subject to all yard requirements herein.
Detached carports shall be considered as an accessory structure.
13.   “Cellar” means that portion of a building having more than one-half of
its height below grade. A cellar is not included in computing the number of
stories for the purpose of height measurement.
14.   “Convenience store” means an establishment for retail sale of petroleum
products and other supplies for motor vehicles, as well as for the retail sale
of a variety of other items typically sold in grocery stores.
15.   “Day care centers” means any private agency, institution, establishment,
or place which provides supplemental parental care or educational work, other
than lodging overnight, for six or more unrelated children of preschool age,
for compensation.
16.   “Dwelling” means any stationary, permanent building, or portion thereof
which is designed or used exclusively for residential purposes, but not
including a tent, cabin, RV, or trailer.
17.   “Dwelling, apartment” means a room or suite of rooms in a multiple
dwelling intended or designed for use as a residency by a single family and
containing bathroom and kitchen facilities.
18.   “Dwelling, single-family, detached” means a residence designed for or
occupied by one family only, entirely surrounded by yard on the same lot,
erected on a permanent foundation. Does not include mobile homes.
19.   “Dwelling, duplex” or “two-family” means a building on one lot with a
common wall, designed for or converted for occupancy by two families only, with
separate housekeeping and cooking facilities for each dwelling. Such dwellings
must be erected on a permanent foundation. Does not include mobile homes.
20.   “Dwelling, multiple” or “multi-family” means a residence designed for or
occupied by three or more families, with separate housekeeping and cooking
facilities for each. Such dwellings must be erected on a permanent foundation.
Does not include mobile homes.
21.   “Dwelling, condominium” means a multiple dwelling as defined herein
whereby the fee title to each dwelling unit is held independently of the others
and where the general common elements of the structure, as defined under the
Code of Iowa, is shared by one or more persons, corporations, or other legal
entities capable of holding or owning an interest in real property.
22.   “Dwelling, row” means any one of three or more residences designed for or
occupied only by one family which are attached and in a continuous row. Each
dwelling is designed and erected as a unit on a separate lot with an individual
entrance. All dwelling units must be separated horizontally from each other
dwelling by a dividing wall, but may not be separated vertically from each
other by a dividing floor or ceiling. No more than six units shall be permitted
in a single structure.
23.   “Dwelling, patio home” means a building containing only one dwelling unit
on a separate lot and designed for and occupied exclusively for residence
purposes by only one family within a townhome regime.
24.   “Dwelling, townhome” means a row dwelling or a patio home as defined
herein which is characterized by common elements which are specified in or
determined under the rules and regulations set forth by recorded covenants.
Said covenants shall establish the guidelines for maintenance of common
elements and permit free movement through common areas by members of the
homeowners association to assure access to the structure exterior of each
townhome unit by the individual unit owner.
25.   “Dwelling, tiny house” means a small building designed for residential
use, generally 400 square feet or less. Tiny houses on wheels shall be
considered an RV for purposes of this chapter, unless properly tied-down and
skirted in which case it may be considered as a mobile home. Tiny houses on
permanent foundations shall be considered to be a single-family detached
dwelling and shall be subject to all applicable building codes.
26.   “Dwelling, group home” means a dwelling shared by four or more persons
with disabilities, including resident staff, who live together as a single
housekeeping unit and in a long-term, family-like environment in which the
staff provide care, education, and participation in community activities for
the residents with the primary goal of enabling the resident to live as
independently as possible.
27.   “Dwelling unit” means a room or group of rooms which are arranged,
designed, or used as living quarters for the occupancy of one family containing
bathroom or kitchen facilities.
28.   “Family” means one or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit,
provided that unless all members are related by blood, marriage, adoption,
legal guardianship or as foster parent-children, no such family shall contain
over four persons.
29.   “Farm” means an area of 10 acres or more which is used for the growing of
the usual farm products, such as vegetables, fruits, trees, and grain, and
their storage on the area, as well as for the raising thereon of the usual farm
poultry and farm animals. The term “farming” includes the operating of such an
area for one or more of the above uses, including the necessary accessory uses
for treating or storing the produce; provided, however the operation of such
accessory uses shall be secondary to that of the normal farming activities, and
provided further that “farming” does not include the feeding of garbage or
offal to swine or other animals.
30.   “Feed lot” means any parcel of land or premises on which the principal
use is the concentrated feeding within a confined area of cattle, hogs, or
sheep. A commercial feed lot is as defined according to the Department of
Environmental Quality (DEQ) specifications or in which the livestock on feed
are owned by someone other than the owner of the feed lot.
31.   “Floodplain” means the channel of a stream or body of water and land
adjacent to said channel or a body of water that has been or may be hereafter
covered by flood water, including but not limited to the 100-year flood.
32.   “Garage” means a private garage enclosed structure intended for and used
for the housing of motor-driven vehicles of the residents of the premises. Pole
buildings are permitted for garages.
33.   “Gas station” or “service station” or “lube shop” means any building or
premises used for the retail sale of liquefied petroleum products for the
propulsion of motor vehicles, and including such product as oil, lubricants,
tires, batteries, antifreeze, motor vehicle accessories, and other items
customarily associated with the sale of such products; for the rendering of
minor services and making of adjustments and replacements to motor vehicles
such as oil changes and filter replacements, and the washing, waxing, and
polishing of motor vehicles as incidental to other services provided; and the
making of repairs to motor vehicles except those of a major type. Repairs of a
major type are: spray painting, body, fender, clutch, transmission,
differential, axle, spring and frame repairs; major overhauling of engines
requiring the removal of engine cylinder head or crankcase pan; repairs to
radiators requiring the removal thereof; or complete recapping or re-treading
of tires. No service operations are permitted outside a fully enclosed
building. No outdoor storage of parts or vehicles in the process of being
repaired is permitted.
34.   “Home occupation” means a use conducted entirely within the residence and
carried on by the inhabitants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes where there is no
evidence of such occupation being conducted on the premises by virtue of
displays or excessive noise, odors, electrical disturbances, or traffic
generation, with no more than one non-resident assistant and where not more
than one-half of the floor area of any one floor is devoted to such use.
35.   “Hotel” means a building in which lodging is provided and offered to the
public for compensation and which is open to transient guests in
contradistinction to a boarding house or lodging house. Includes motels and
motor lodges having parking in a convenient location to each unit.
36.   “Inoperable motor vehicle” means any motor vehicle which lacks
   A.   current registration; or
   B.   two or more wheels or other component parts, the absence of which
renders the vehicle totally unfit for legal use of highways.
37.   “Junk” means all old or scrap metal; old rope, rags, batteries, paper
trash, rubber debris, waste; dismantled or inoperable vehicles, machinery, and
appliances, or parts of such vehicles, machinery, or appliances; old discarded
glass, plastic, or old discarded household goods or hardware.
38.   “Junk yard” means any place not fully enclosed in a building, used in
whole or in part for the storage, salvage or deposit of junk, lumber, salvaged
wood, whether in connection with a business or not, which encompasses an area
of 100 square feet or more, or any place where more than two inoperable motor
vehicles or used parts and materials thereof, when taken together equal the
bulk of two motor vehicles, are stored or deposited. For the purpose of this
chapter, “junk yard” includes salvage yard, wrecking yard, used lumber yard,
and places for storage of salvage wood.
39.   “Kennel, dog” means any premises on which four or more dogs, six months
old or older, are kept.
40.   “Lot” means, for the purposes of this chapter, a parcel of land of at
least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage and
area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as are herein required.
Such lot shall have frontage on a public or private street and may consist of
(i) a single lot of record; (ii) a portion of a lot of record; (iii) a
combination of complete lots of record or portions of lots of record; and (iv)
a parcel of land described by metes and bounds, provided that in no case of
division or combination shall any residual lot or parcel be created which does
not meet the requirements of this chapter.
41.   “Lot line” means the property line bounding a lot.
42.   “Lot measurements” means:
   A.   “Depth” means the mean horizontal distance between the front and rear
lot lines.
   B.   “Width” means the width of a lot measured at the minimum building
setback line and generally at right angles to its depth.
43.   “Lot of record” means a lot which is part of a subdivision or a lot or
parcel described by metes and bounds, the description of which is recorded in
the office of the County Recorder of Grundy County.
44.   “Lot types” means any of the following lots:
   A.   “Corner lot” means a lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets.
   B.   “Interior lot” means a lot other than a corner lot with only one
frontage on a street, other than an alley.
   C.   “Double frontage lot” means a lot other than a corner lot with frontage
on more than one street, other than an alley. Lots with frontage on two
non­intersecting streets may be referred to as “through” lots.
   D.   “Reverse corner lot” means a corner lot, the side street line of which
is substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the first lot to its
rear.
45.   “Manufactured home,” as used in this chapter, means a factory-built
structure, which is manufactured or constructed under the authority of 42 USC
§5403 and which is to be used as a place for human habitation, but which is not
constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or other device allowing it to
be moved other than for the purpose of moving it to permanent site, and which
does not have permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles. A
“mobile home” is not considered to be a manufactured home, unless it has been
converted to real property as provided in the Code of Iowa, and shall be taxed
as a site-built dwelling.
46.   “Mini warehouse” means a building or group of buildings containing
varying sizes of individualized, compartmentalized, and controlled access
stalls or lockers for the dead storage of customers' goods or wares, excluding
junk explosives or flammable materials, and other noxious or dangerous
materials, may include caretaker quarters as an accessory use. No business
activities other than rental or storage units shall be conducted on the
premises.
47.   “Mobile home” means any vehicle which at any time was used or maintained
for use as a conveyance upon highways, public streets, or waterways; so
designed and so constructed as to permit residential occupancy thereof whether
attached or unattached to a permanent foundation. Mobile homes to be used for
residential purposes shall be placed only in an approved mobile home park.
48.   “Mobile home park” means any site, lot, parcel, or portion thereof having
an area of at least one acre upon which two or more mobile homes occupied for
residential purposes are located, regardless of whether or not a charge is made
for such accommodations; and includes any accessory buildings and uses in
accordance with an approved Site Plan.
49.   “Nonconforming use” means any building or land lawfully occupied by a use
at the time of passage of the applicable Zoning Code (or any amendment thereto)
which does not conform after the passage of the Zoning Code (or amendment
thereto) with the use regulations of the district in which it is situated.
50.   “Nursing or convalescent home” means a building or structure having
accommodations where care is provided for invalid, infirm, aged, convalescent,
or physically disabled persons, including insane and other mental cases, and
inebriate, but not including contagious cases.
51.   “Occupant frontage” means that side or wall of a building in which the
main public entrance to the premises is located.
52.   “Parking space” means an area of not less than 9 feet wide by 19 feet
long plus the maneuvering space required for the parking of a motor vehicle.
Space for maneuvering, incidental to parking, shall not encroach upon any
public right-of-way. Parking spaces for other than residential use shall be
paved, with the surface material and thickness designated on an approved Site
Plan.
53.   “Principal use” means the main use of land or structures as distinguished
from an accessory use.
54.   “Porch, unenclosed” means a roofed projection which has no more than 50
percent of each outside wall area enclosed by a building or siding material,
other than meshed screens.
55.   “Recreational vehicle” means any camper, RV, boat, personal watercraft,
all- terrain vehicle (ATV), snowmobile, or golf cart; or the trailer for any
such vehicle.
56.   “Restaurant” means a business where the dispensing and the consumption at
indoor tables of edible foodstuff and non-alcoholic beverages provides the
principal revenue for the business.
57.   “Story” means that portion of a building included between the surface of
any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor
above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling of roof next above
it.
58.   “Story, half” means a space under a sloping roof which has the line of
intersection of roof decking and wall face not more than four feet above the
top floor level. A half story containing independent apartments or living
quarters shall be counted as a full story.
59.   “Street” means a public or private thoroughfare which affords the
principal means of access to abutting property.
60.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected with a fixed location
on the ground or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground or
any movable object weighing 200 pounds or more, which will be or has been in
substantially the same location for 10 days or more, except motor vehicles.
Among other things, “structure” includes buildings, stadiums, platforms, radio
towers, sheds, storage bins, decks and porches, chimneys, equipment, gazebos
and arbors, private light poles, towers, windmills and small wind energy
systems, antenna, satellite dishes over three feet in diameter, awnings, store
fronts, walls and facades, signs, and fences.
61.   “Structural alterations” means any replacement or changes in the type of
construction or in the supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls
or partitions, columns, beams, or girders, beyond ordinary repairs and
maintenance.
62.   “Substantial improvement” means any repair, reconstruction or improvement
of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market
value of the prior structure either:
   A.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
   B.   If the structure has been damaged, before the damage occurred. This
term does not include any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing State or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions.
63.   “Yard” means an open space on the same lot with a building or structure,
unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground
upward, except as otherwise provided herein.
64.   “Yard, front” means a yard fronting on the public or private street and
extending across the full width of the lot and measured, using the least
distance, between the front lot line and the closest building or any projection
thereof, other than permitted encroachments.
65.   “Yard, rear” means a yard extending across the full width of the lot and
measured, using the least distance, between the rear lot line and the principal
building or any projection thereof, other than permitted encroachments. On
interior lots, the rear yard is the yard opposite the front yard. On comer
lots, the rear yard is the yard opposite the front yard or street side yard,
whichever is narrower.
66.   “Yard, interior side” means a yard extending along an interior side of a
lot, running from the front yard to the rear year and measured between the side
lot lines and the nearest building or any projection thereof, other than
permitted encroachments.
67.   “Yard, street side” means a yard extending along the street side of a
corner lot, running from the front yard to the rear yard and measured between
the right-of-way line and the nearest building or any projection thereof, other
than permitted encroachments.
68.   “Zero lot line” means the location of a building on a lot in such a
manner that one or more of the building's sides rests directly on a lot line.
165.04   ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
In order to carry out the purpose and planning intent of the Zoning Ordinance,
the City is hereby divided into 10 based zoning district classifications and
one overlay district as follows:
1.   Base Zoning Districts:
   A.   A-1   Agricultural District
   B.   R-1   Single Family Residential District
   C.   R-2   One and Two-Family Residential District
   D.   R-3   Multiple-Family Residential District
   E.   R-4   Mobile Home Park Residential District
   F.   C-1   Central Business District
   G.   C-2   Commercial District
   H.   C-3   Highway Commercial District
   I.   M-1   Light Industrial District
   J.   M-2   Heavy Industrial District
2.   Overlay Zoning Districts:
   A.   FP   Floodplain Overlay
165.05   OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
The boundaries of the aforementioned base zoning districts and overlay district
are hereby established as shown on the Official Zoning Map of the City and said
map and all notations, references, and other information shown thereon shall be
and are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this Code. The
Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor, attested
by the City Administrator, under the following words: “This is to certify that
this is the Official Zoning Map referred to in the
Chapter 165 – Zoning Regulations of the Municipal Code of the City, adopted on
the ____ day of _____, 20__.”
The Official Zoning Map shall remain on file in the office of the Zoning
Administrator.
1.   Documenting Map Amendments. If, in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, changes are made in district boundaries or other matter portrayed on
the Official Zoning Map, copies of such changes shall be filed with the
Official Zoning Map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the
Council. Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the Official Zoning
Map which may from time to time be made, the Official Zoning Map referred to
herein shall be the final authority as to the current zoning status of land and
water areas, buildings and other structures in the City. † 8
2.   Replacing Official Zoning Map. In the event that the Official Zoning Map
becomes damaged, destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret because of use, the
Council may by ordinance adopt a new Official Zoning Map which shall supersede
the prior Official Zoning Map. The new Official Zoning Map may correct drafting
or other errors or omissions in the prior Official Zoning Map, but no such
correction shall have the effect of amending the original Zoning Code or any
subsequent amendment thereto. The new Official Zoning Map shall be identified
by the signature of the Mayor, attested by the City Clerk, under the following
words: "This is to certify that this Official Zoning Map supersedes and
replaces the Official Zoning Map adopted on the ____ day of ___, as part of the
City's Zoning Code."
3.   Interpretation of Official Zoning Map. Where there is uncertainty as to
the boundaries of various districts as shown on the Official Zoning Map, the
following rules shall apply.
   A.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, alleys, or railroad lines shall be construed to follow such
centerlines.
   B.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines or
section lines shall be construed to follow such lot lines or section lines.
   C.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following corporate limits shall
be construed to follow such corporate limits.
   D.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following shorelines, or the
centerlines of streams, creeks, or rivers shall be construed to follow such
shorelines or centerlines.
   E.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or as extensions of features
indicated above shall be so construed. The scale of the Map shall determine
distances not specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map.
   F.   Where physical features existing on the ground are at variance with
those shown on the Official Zoning Map, or where no other indication of the
district boundary is made and no dimensions are shown, the Zoning Administrator
shall interpret the district boundaries though the use of the scale appearing
on the maps.
 
Notes
8 † EDITOR’S NOTE: See EDITOR’S NOTE at the end of this chapter for ordinances
  amending the zoning map.
165.06   APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
The regulations set by this chapter within each district shall be minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or
land, except as hereinafter provided:
1.   No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied – and
no building, structure, or part thereof shall hereafter be erected, extended,
converted, moved, rebuilt, or structurally altered – except in conformity with
the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
2.   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered to:
   A.   Exceed the height limit herein established;
   B.   Accommodate or house a greater number of families;
   C.   Occupy a greater percentage of lot area; or
   D.   Have narrower or smaller front yards, rear yards, side yards, or other
open spaces than are specified herein for the district in which such building
is located.
3.   No yard or parts of a yard or other open space, or off-street parking or
loading space required about or in connection with any building for the purpose
of complying with this chapter shall be included as part of a yard, open space,
or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other
building.
165.07   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
1.   Vision Clearance.
   A.   On corner lots, nothing shall be erected, placed, planted or allowed to
grow in such a manner as to impede vision between a height of two and one­ half
and 10 feet above the centerline grades of the area described as follows: that
area bounded by the street right-of-way lines of a corner lot and a straight
line joining points on said right-of-way lines 25 feet each way from the point
of intersection of said right-of-way lines.
2.   Fences, Walls, and Hedges.
   A.   No fence, wall, or hedge shall be constructed without prior approval of
a building permit in accordance with Section
165.21.
   B.   Fences, walls, and hedges shall be located so no part thereof is within
five feet of a street right-of-way line or alley or within two feet of an
adjoining property line. The setback can be waived if a common fence agreement
is filed and recorded.
   C.   In any residential district, a fence, wall or hedge not exceeding four
feet in height which is at least 65 percent open is permitted within the limits
of front yards or street side yards.
   D.   In any residential district, fences, walls, and hedges not exceeding
six feet in height are permitted within the limits of interior side and rear
yards, with the exception of the rear yard of double frontage lots which is
considered a front yard.
   E.   In any commercial or industrial district, fences, walls, and hedges not
exceeding eight feet in height are permitted within the limits of interior side
and rear yards, with the exception of the rear yard of double frontage lots
which is considered a front yard.
   F.   Acceptable materials for fences in all yards shall include wrought iron
and similar decorative steel, wood, vinyl, polymer, or other material approved
by the Zoning Administrator. In rear and interior side yards only, chain link
and vinyl-clad chain link are acceptable. Unacceptable materials shall include
woven wire, barbed wire and electrical fencing.
   G.   No fences shall be placed in or across easements or in such a manner as
to restrict drainage.
   H.   Temporary snow fences shall be permitted from November 1 through April
1 of each year without a permit.
   I.   Farm fences in the A-1 District are exempt from these requirements.
3.   Street Frontage Required. Except as may be permitted herein, no lot shall
contain any building used for single-family dwelling purposes unless the lot
abuts for at least 40 feet on a public street, and no lot shall contain any
building used for duplex or multiple-family dwelling purposes unless the lot
abuts for at least 40 feet on a public street.
4.   Sidewalks Required. In any zoning district, public sidewalks shall be
constructed in conjunction with construction of a new principal structure, a
remodeling project in an amount equal to or greater than 25 percent of the
original building valuation, a building addition larger than 100 square feet in
size, a new attached or detached garage, or any other accessory structure
larger than 400 square feet in size. Said public sidewalks shall be constructed
along all the frontage of all public streets, excluding alleys, with the inner
edge of the sidewalk located one foot outside of the lot line. Public sidewalks
running along public streets, including ramps at street crossings, shall be a
minimum of four feet wide and shall be constructed of Portland cement concrete
with at least three and one-half inches of depth. In any zoning district where
there exists no connecting sidewalks, the City Council may defer the
requirement for sidewalks in any commercial or industrial district provided the
property owner signs an Agreement covering their responsibility to install such
sidewalks upon written notification of the Zoning Administrator and waiving
their right to object to an assessment should they fail to fulfill their
obligation to install sidewalks; such Agreement shall run with the land.
5.   Accessory Buildings and Structures. No accessory building shall be erected
in any required yard other than an interior side or rear yard. Accessory
buildings shall be a minimum of five feet from the principal building.
Accessory buildings may be connected to the principal structure, or less than
five feet from the principal structure provided all yard requirements for a
principal building are complied with for the accessory structure. No accessory
building shall be constructed upon a lot until the construction of the
principal building has been actually commenced, and no accessory building shall
be used unless the main building on the lot is also being used.
6.   Paved Driveway Required. In any zoning district, a paved driveway is
required in conjunction with construction of a new principal structure, a
remodeling project in an amount equal to or greater than 25 percent of the
original building valuation, a building addition larger than 100 square feet in
size, a new attached or detached garage, or any other accessory structure
larger than 400 square feet in size. A paved driveway shall also be required if
an existing gravel driveway or parking area is expanded by four feet in any
direction.
   A.   Permit Required. Before any person shall construct a new driveway,
expand the dimensions of an existing gravel or non-gravel driveway by more than
four feet in any direction, or replace a gravel driveway with a paved driveway,
a permit must first be obtained from City Hall and must meet all requirements
herein.
   B.   For purposes of this subsection, a paved driveway consists of any kind
of hard surfacing, including but not limited to Portland cement concrete,
bituminous concrete, brick pavers, together with the necessary base. Paving
does not include surfacing with oil, gravel, oil and gravel, sealcoat, or
chloride.
   C.   Driveway shall be paved with acceptable materials having a depth of not
less than four inches and shall be at least 10 feet wide.
   D.   No driveway shall be within 15 feet of any street intersection,
measured from the property corner. No driveway shall be located closer than one
foot from the property line. The driveway flare must remain within the limits
of the property lines, extended to the curb, of the lot on which the driveway
is constructed.
   E.   The driveway approach, defined as that portion of the driveway located
within the right-of-way of the public street, shall be paved with Portland
cement concrete or bituminous concrete and shall be designed to accommodate the
crossing of a public sidewalk. A 30-inch wide section of the curb and gutter
shall be saw-cut and removed and replaced with full depth pavement matching the
existing street pavement unless otherwise approved by the Public Works
Director.
7.   Yards and Permitted Encroachments. Every part of a required yard shall be
open to the sky unobstructed with any building or structure, except for a
permitted accessory building in a rear yard, and except for the permitted
projections described below:
   A.   Encroachments permitted in all yards: ordinary projections of
sky­lights, sills, belt courses, cornices, and ornamental features projecting
no more than 12 inches into the required yard. Roofs of any principal structure
may encroach 24 inches; however roofs of any accessory structure may encroach
only 12 inches. Downspouts, roof drains, and splash pads may encroach into any
yard, provided such appurtenances are setback a minimum of three feet from the
property line.
   B.   Encroachments permitted in front yards and street side yards only:
Steps and porches; all uncovered and unenclosed; provided such projections
shall not extend more than 10 feet into said yard.
   C.   Encroachments permitted in interior side yards only: steps, porches,
stoops, and terraces; all uncovered and unenclosed; and fireplace doghouses
provided any such projection shall not extend more than two feet into said
yard;
   D.   Encroachments permitted in rear yards only: steps, porches, balconies,
decks, stoops, and terraces; all uncovered and unenclosed; provided a minimum
setback of five feet is maintained from all property lines. Fireplace doghouses
are permitted to extend no more than two feet into said yard.
8.   Double Frontage Lots. Building on through lots extending through from
street to street shall provide the required front yard on both streets.
9.   Mixed-Use Yard Requirements. In instances where buildings are erected
containing two or more uses housed vertically, the required side yards for the
first floor use shall control.
10.   Home Occupations.
   A.   Purpose. The regulations of this chapter dealing with home occupations
are designed to protect and maintain the residential character of the
neighborhood, while permitting certain limited commercial activities which have
traditionally been carried out in a residential dwelling. The use of the
dwelling unit for a home occupation shall be clearly incidental to and
subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its occupants.
   B.   Definition of Home Occupation; Representative Activities. Permitted
home occupations include, but are not limited to, the following lists of
activities; provided, however, each permitted home occupation shall be subject
to the limitations hereinafter set forth, and to all other regulations
applicable to the district in which it is located:
      (1)   Facilities used by a physician, surgeon, dentist, lawyer,
clergyman, or other professional person, for emergency consultation or
treatment, but not for general practice.
      (2)   Providing instruction to no more than four students at a time.
      (3)   Daycare or babysitting of no more than five nonresident children.
      (4)   Home office for off-site retail sales such as Avon, Silpada,
Longaberger, and similar merchandise.
      (5)   Home office and storage for internet sales operations provided all
materials are stored inside a building.
      (6)   Studio of an artist, photographer, craftsman, writer or composer.
      (7)   Boarding house as defined herein.
      (8)   Millinery, dressmaking, tailoring, canning, laundering, and similar
domestic service activities.
   C.   Limitation on Home Occupation Activities. Wherever home occupation
activities are permitted, such activity may only be undertaken subject to the
following limitations, unless otherwise specified:
      (1)   No more than one person who is not residing on the premises shall
be employed in the activity on the premises.
      (2)   On-street parking for customers and employees of any home
occupation shall be limited to the property owner’s own street frontage.
      (3)   The activity shall not involve any outside storage nor in any way
create, outside the building, any external evidence of the operation.
      (4)   No alteration of a building shall be made which changes the
character and appearance thereof as a residential building.
      (5)   No more than 50 percent of floor area of any floor of the principal
building shall be devoted to the home occupation.
      (6)   No mechanical, electrical, or other equipment shall be used except
of a type normally used on a residential premise.
      (7)   No activity shall be permitted which is noxious, offensive, or
hazardous by reason of pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or by creation of
noise, odor, refuse, heat vibration, smoke, radiation, or any other
objectionable emissions, or by interference with televisions, or radio
reception.
11.   Building Lines on Approved Plats. Whenever the plat of a land subdivision
approved by the Zoning Commission and on record in the office of the County
Recorder shows a building setback line along any frontage for the purpose of
creating a front yard, rear yard, or side yard, the setback line thus shown
shall apply unless specific yard requirements in this chapter require a greater
setback.
12.   Open Space. The minimum total land area devoted to open space in the R-3,
R-4, C-2, and C-3 zoning districts only shall not be less than 15 percent of
the gross land area included in the building lot. Such open space shall be
maintained as grassed and landscaped areas, plazas, walks and ornamental
structures, when part of the landscaping theme. Open space shall not include
structures or buildings, off-street parking areas, loading areas and access
drive.
13.   Temporary Buildings. Temporary buildings, camping trailers, tents,
portable or potentially portable structures shall not be used for dwelling
purposes in any district. Camping trailers and RV's shall not be used for human
occupancy in any district for more than 72 hours. Temporary buildings shall not
be utilized for a period exceeding six months.
14.   Lots of Record. Any lot of record prior to June 6, 1977, which is located
in any residence district and which does not comply in area or minimum
dimensions with the requirements of the district in which it is located may be
used for a single­family structure, provided that all setback and other
requirements of this chapter are complied with, and that the owner of such lot
did not directly or indirectly have legal title to or enjoy the beneficial
interest in the lot or lots contiguous thereto on the effective date of this
chapter. No building permit shall be issued for construction on any substandard
lot, which lot was of record prior to June 6, 1977, if said lot is adjacent and
contiguous to another lot which at the time of the adoption of this chapter was
in the same ownership or whose ownership had beneficial interest in said lot,
unless said lots are combined into one lot meeting the requirements of the
zoning district which is applicable.
15.   Buildings on Partial Lots Prohibited. Construction of new buildings in
any platted area within the City shall not be permitted upon building lots of
less area than was originally platted where the division of lots occurs after
June 6, 1977.
16.   Manufactured or Modular Homes. Notwithstanding any other provision in
this chapter, the plans and specifications of a proposed residential structure
shall not be denied solely because the proposed structure is a manufactured or
modular home. However, the manufactured or modular home shall be located and
installed according to the same standards which would apply to a site-built
single-family dwelling on the same lot. This would include, but not be limited
to, a foundation system, setback, and minimum square footage.
17.   Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles, including tiny houses on
wheels, shall not be used for human occupancy in any district for more than 72
hours. Recreational vehicles or trailers of any kind or type without current
license plates shall not be parked or stored on any lot other than in
completely enclosed buildings.
18.   Mechanical Units. In any residential district, air conditioning
compressor­condensers or other mechanical units may be located in any interior
side yard and in any rear yard. If located in any street side yard, they shall
not be placed more than five feet from the principal structure and shall be
screened from the street by a solid fence or plantings. In residential
districts, a compressor-condenser with less than five ton capacity shall not be
located within five feet of any lot line unless screened by solid fence or
plantings. In all districts, the compressor-condenser for any unit of five ton
capacity or more shall not be located within 25 feet of any lot line.
165.08   NONCONFORMING USES.
1.   Authority to Continue. Any building, structure or use lawfully established
and existing on the effective date of this chapter which does not conform to
all of the regulations of the district in which it is located may be continued,
subject to the provisions of this chapter.
2.   Repairs and Alterations. Repairs and alterations, other than additions or
expansions, may be made in or to a nonconforming building, including aging
buildings, provided that no substantial improvements as defined herein shall be
made in or to such building.
3.   Additions and Expansions. A nonconforming building which is nonconforming
as to size, height, or setbacks, or which is designed or intended for a use not
permitted in the district in which it is located, shall not be added to,
expanded, or enlarged unless such addition, expansion, or enlargement conforms
to all the regulations of the district in which it is located and unless the
entire building thereafter conforms to all of the regulations of the district
as to size. A nonconforming use of land shall not be expanded or extended
beyond the area it occupies which would make it more nonconforming at the date
of the adoption of this chapter.
4.   Abandonment/Discontinuation. A nonconforming building, all or
substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use which is not
permitted in the district in which it is located which is or hereafter becomes
vacant and remains unoccupied or is not used for a period of one year, shall
not thereafter be occupied or used except in a manner which conforms to the use
regulations of the district in which it is located. If a nonconforming use of
land is discontinued for a period of two years, such use shall not thereafter
be renewed and any subsequent use of the land shall conform to the regulations
of the district in which it is located. Whenever a use is changed or replaced
by a conforming use, such premises shall not thereafter be used or occupied by
a nonconforming use, even though the building may have been originally designed
and constructed for the prior nonconforming use.
5.   Restoration of a Damaged Nonconforming Building. A building, designed or
intended for a use which is not permitted in the district in which it is
located, which is destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty or act of God
to the extent that the cost of restoration shall exceed 75 percent of the cost
of replacement of the entire building, shall not be restored unless such
building and use thereof shall conform to all the regulations of the district
in which it is located. If the cost of restoration of such damaged building
does not exceed 60 percent of the cost of replacement of the entire building,
repairs or reconstruction shall be commenced within one year from the date of
the fire or other casualty or act of God and diligently pursued until
completion.
6.   Uses Under “Special Permit Uses.” Any use for which a special exception is
permitted as provided in this chapter shall not be deemed a nonconforming use
but shall, without further action, be deemed a conforming use by special
permit.
165.09   AGRICULTURAL ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
A-1 Agricultural Districts are intended and designed to preserve agricultural
areas, primarily located on the fringe of the developed areas, until such time
as these areas are rezoned for development. Agricultural District shall not be
used indiscriminately to permit uses that could potentially be detrimental to
public health, welfare, and safety.
1.   Agricultural Districts.
   A.   A-1 Agricultural District. The A-1 District is intended and designed to
provide and preserve the agricultural and rural use of land until such time as
these areas are rezoned based on careful consideration of the Planning & Zoning
Commission and City Council.
   B.   Agricultural Exemption. Agricultural exemptions may be considered only
for farms on tracts of land 10 acres or larger in size that are classified as
agricultural uses by Grundy County.
2.   Principal Permitted Uses. Principal permitted uses for Agricultural
Districts are as follows:
AGRICULTURAL ZONING DISTRICTS
PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USE A-1
AGRICULTURAL ZONING DISTRICTS
PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USE                                            A-1
Agricultural – animal production of domesticated animals such as
poultry and livestock, including small feed lots but excluding     PR
confinements.
Agricultural – animal raising (personal), provided no building in
which animals are quartered shall be closer than 200 feet to the   P
property line.
Agricultural – crop production for growing of the usual farm
products such as vegetables, fruits, trees and grain and their     P
storage on site provided such storage is secondary to that of the
normal farming operation.
Agricultural – roadside stands for sale of produce or other      PR
products produced on premises; livestock sales are not permitted.
Agricultural – stables or kennels.                               P
Cemeteries and the necessary accessory structures.                 SUP
Civic – public parks, playgrounds, wildlife refuges, and similar P
uses.
Public Transportation Terminals, including railroad depots and     SUP
stations, bus stations, airports, and landing fields.
Residential – single-family detached dwellings, no more than one P
per parcel.
Residential – mobile homes, no more than one per parcel.         P
Utility – public utility structures necessary for service of the
area; railroad right-of-way and tracks excluding depots, stations  P
and yards.
Other uses equivalent to the permitted uses listed above as
determined by P & Z and approved by Council. Criteria for          PR
equivalency include but are not limited to traffic, odors, noise,
and lighting levels.
Key:
P   = Permitted Use            PR    = Permitted Use With Restrictions
SUP = Special Use Permit (BOA  Blank = Use Not Permitted
    approved)
3.   Restrictions for Principal Permitted Uses in Agricultural Districts:
   A.   Animal Production:
      (1)   Animal feedlots are permitted for concentrated feeding of animals
within a confined area on farms that are a minimum of 10 acres in size.
      (2)   No more than one animal will be permitted for every three acres of
property that is available for animal production, up to a maximum of 200 total
head of animals.
      (3)   No animals, animal feedlots, or buildings quartering animals shall
be shall be located closer than 200 feet from the property line.
      (4)   No feeding of garbage or offal to swine or other animals shall be
permitted.
   B.   Roadside Stands:
      (1)   Roadside stands are seasonal structures that are temporary in
nature and are less than 200 square feet in size. Nurseries and garden centers
are not considered roadside stands.
      (2)   Roadside stands shall require a peddler's permit, if applicable.
4.   Accessory Uses and Structures. The following accessory uses are permitted
in agricultural zoning districts:
   A.   Customary accessory uses and structures incidental to the permitted
principal uses.
   B.   Agricultural accessory buildings and structures to house agricultural
equipment or permitted livestock, excluding buildings and structures used for
animal confinement, subject to the following:
      (1)   Minimum setback for any agricultural accessory building or
structure shall be at least 25 feet from all property lines.
   C.   Private garage or carport.
   D.   Beekeeping on parcels that are at least one acre in size; provided
hives are located in the rear yard only with no more than one hive per acre on
any one parcel and provided each hive is located at least 25 feet from all
property lines.
   E.   Home occupations in conformance with Section
165.07(10)
   F.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work.
5.   Accessory Structures. Accessory structures may be constructed in
agricultural zoning districts as permitted in Section
165.07(4) of this chapter.
6.   Site Development Regulations.
Regulator A-1
Regulator                                           A-1
Minimum Lot Area                                    10 acres
Minimum Lot Width                                   200 feet
Minimum Front Yard                                  75 feet
Minimum Rear Yard                                   75 feet
Minimum Street Side Yard and Interior Side Yard     50 feet
Building Height Limit – principal use             2-1/2 stories or 35 feet
Building Height Limit – agricultural accessory useNo limitation
Building Height Limit – other accessory uses      1 story or 16 feet
7.   Platting.
   A.   Plats of subdivision shall not be permitted or approved in the A-
1 zoning district.
   B.   Plats of survey submitted in accordance with
Chapter 170 may be approved provided there shall be no more than one split of
land, whether said splits are simultaneous or consecutive. Further splitting of
land shall require a plat of subdivision and are not permitted in the A-
1 District.
8.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided as required by
Section
165.16. Loading zones, when required, shall be provided as required by Section
165.15.
9.   Site Plans. Site plans shall be required for all non-exempt uses in
agricultural districts except single family and two-family residential
dwellings and agricultural uses. See Chapter 161 for Site Plan requirements.
10.   Buffer Screening. Refer to Section
165.18 for requirements regarding buffer plantings, fences, and screening,
including screening of outdoor storage areas.
11.   Annexation. All territory which is annexed to the City shall be
considered as lying within the A-1 Agricultural District until such
classification has been changed by amendment in accordance with the provisions
of this Zoning Ordinance.
12.   Exceptions. See Section
165.14 for exceptions to the agricultural zoning district regulations.
165.10   RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS (R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4).
The residentially zoned districts are intended to provide for residential areas
of various densities, to promote neighborhood quality of life, and to provide
for those areas in a manner consistent with good planning policies and
practice. It is intended that the district shall not be used indiscriminately
to permit any use that could potentially be detrimental to the public health,
welfare, and safety of the community.
1.   Residential Districts.
   A.   R-1 Single Family Residential District. The R-1 District is intended to
provide for the development of low-density residential areas and new
subdivisions of the City with one-family detached dwellings on individual
platted lots.
   B.   R-2 One- and Two-family Residential District. The R-2 District is
intended to provide for the redevelopment of existing low-density residential
areas of the City with one and two-family dwellings on platted lots. It is also
intended to provide for development of one- and two-family homes on smaller
lots in new subdivisions.
   C.   R-3 Multiple-Family Residential District. The R-3 District is intended
to provide for development or redevelopment of higher-density residential areas
of the City with multiple-family dwellings, including row houses, townhomes,
apartment buildings, and condominiums and for limited development of single-
family and two-family homes. Multi-family uses should be developed on paved
streets with good access to the highway to avoid congestion and should be
located and designed to be compatible with surrounding residential areas.
   D.   R-4 Mobile Home Park Residential District. The R-4 District is intended
to provide for the development of mobile home parks in medium density
residential areas. Mobile home parks should be developed on paved streets with
good access to the highway to avoid congestion. Parks should be designed and
located to be compatible with neighboring uses.
2.   Principal Permitted Uses. Principal permitted uses for residential
districts are as follows:
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USE R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USE                                                       R- R- R- R-
                                                                              1  2  3  4
Agricultural – crop production only for growing of farm products such as
vegetables, fruits, trees and grain but excluding crop storage, animal        PR PR PR PR
production or raising or roadside stands or greenhouses over 2000 sf.
Cemeteries and the necessary accessory structures.                            PR PR PR
Civic – private clubs, lodges, or veterans organizations, excepting those      P  P
holding a beer permit or liquor license.
Civic – public museums, libraries, or community centers and similar uses.      P  P
Civic – public or private parks and playgrounds; including golf courses.    P  P  P
Education – day care centers and preschools.                                PR PR PR
Education – colleges and universities, including classrooms, administration       P
buildings, and athletic facilities.
Education – primary and secondary schools, public & private, excluding      PR P  P
boarding schools.
Education – residential housing including dormitories, fraternities, and          P
sororities if recognized by the local college or university.
Hotels – residential bed & breakfast (up to and including three units).        P  P
Hotels – bed & breakfast inn (up to and including 12 units).
Religious institutions.                                                       PR P  P
Residential – boarding houses.                                                 P  P
Residential – mobile home parks.                                                     PR
Residential – multiple-family dwellings including apartments, townhomes and       P
condominiums.
Residential – nursing homes, assisted care and independent care facilities.       P
Residential – duplexes and two-family, group homes.                            P  P
Residential – single-family, detached.                                      P  P  P
Utility – public utility structures and facilities necessary for service of PR PR PR PR
the area; railroad right-of-way and tracks excluding depots and yard.
Other uses equivalent to the permitted uses listed above as determined by P &
Z and approved by Council. Criteria for equivalency include but are not       PR PR PR PR
limited to traffic, odors, noise, and lighting levels.
Key:
P = Permitted Use   PR = Permitted Use With Restrictions
SUP = Special Use Permit (BOA approved)   Blank = Use Not Permitted
3.   Restrictions for Principal Permitted Uses.
   A.   Residential uses are subject to the following restrictions:
      (1)   No greenhouses larger than 2,000 square feet are permitted; no
greenhouse heating plant shall be operated within 75 feet of any property line.
      (2)   No storage of manure or odor- or dust-producing substance or use
shall be permitted within 100 feet of any property line.
      (3)   Roadside stands are not permitted in the R-1 or R-2 Districts.
      (4)   Outdoor storage of materials or equipment is not permitted for any
use in the C-1 or C-2 Districts except and specifically approved by Council on
a Site Plan. Said storage shall be limited to areas designated on the site plan
and shall be maintained and screened in conformance to the site plan.
   B.   Day cares centers and pre-schools, are subject to the following
restrictions:
      (1)   Day cares and pre-schools shall be licensed as required by the
State.
      (2)   The building used for such purposes is located not less than 20
feet from any other lot in any residential district.
      (3)   This use shall require usable outdoor play space, which space shall
be confined to the rear yard of the property and be completely enclosed by a
fence.
   C.   Mobile Home Parks shall be licensed in accordance with the provisions
of the regulatory agencies of the State and are subject to the following
restrictions:
      (1)   A Site Plan shall be required for all mobile home parks in
conformance with Chapter 161.
      (2)   A mobile home park shall provide 3,000 square feet per mobile home
unit, and maintain yards and setbacks of at least 30 feet around the perimeter
of said park.
      (3)   Each mobile home within said park shall maintain at least 20 feet
of front, side, and rear yards from all other adjacent mobile homes.
      (4)   At least one storm shelter shall be constructed in each mobile home
park which is acceptable to the City Council as to size, location and
construction materials and shall be constructed and maintained as shown on the
approved Site Plan.
      (5)   Parking shall be provided on site and shall be permitted on only
one side of any private street within said park.
      (6)   Every mobile home shall be supported and set, and tie-downs or
anchors provided, as specified in the manufacturer's instructions or, in their
absence, according to the minimum requirements as specified in Division VI,
Part 2 of the Iowa State Building Code.
      (7)   Only independent mobile homes shall be used for residential
purposes which (i) are designed for long-term occupancy and contain a flush
toilet, a tub or shower, and kitchen facilities; (ii) require a connection to
outside sewer and water systems because a waste holding tank and water storage
tank are not integral parts of the mobile home; (iii) are not built on a self-
propelled motor chassis; and (iv) are not identified as a recreational vehicle,
such as a camping trailer or motor home, by the manufacturer.
      (8)   Skirting of permanent type material and construction sufficient to
provide substantial resistance to high winds shall be installed within 90 days
after the placement of the mobile home to enclose the open space between the
bottom of the mobile home floor and the grade level of the mobile home stand.
The skirting shall be maintained in an attractive manner consistent with the
exterior of the mobile home and the appearance of the mobile home park.
   D.   Schools, religious institutions, and cemeteries are subject to the
following restrictions:
      (1)   All new facilities shall be located on a paved road.
      (2)   All new facilities, and expansions of existing facilities, shall
provide for adequate on-site vehicular circulation and parking in accordance
with an approved site plan.
   E.   Public utility structures and facilities including but not limited to
telephone, cable television, and internet services, are subject to the
following restrictions:
      (1)   All new installations of the above services shall be constructed
and routed below ground.
      (2)   All wires shall be in compliance with the then applicable standards
for said transmission utilities.
      (3)   All replacement of existing above-ground or under-ground wires,
cables, etc., shall be replaced only with below-ground apparatus.
      (4)   When repair of above-ground wires, cables, etc. are necessary, and
said repairs on existing lines are major repairs (where more than 50 percent of
a particular segment of wires and/or cable are being replaced), the apparatus
replacing the damaged wires, cables, etc. shall be below ground. The 50 percent
determination shall be made by a designated City employee.
      (5)   Repairs of the existing above-ground wires that are already in
existence at the time of approval of the ordinance codified in this chapter
shall be allowed only if said repairs are minor and do not constitute a major
repair or replacement of existing service. An exception shall be made for
natural disasters, including but not limited to ice storms and tornados.
4.   Accessory Uses. Uses not permitted as a principal permitted use for that
zoning district shall not be permitted as an accessory use except as
specifically permitted in this subsection. The following accessory uses are
permitted in residential zoning districts:
   A.   Customary accessory uses and structures incidental to the permitted
principal uses.
   B.   Private garage or carport.
   C.   Home occupations in conformance with Section
165.07(10).
   D.   Satellite dishes, no more than 15 feet tall.
   E.   Antenna towers, no more than 55 feet tall if set back at least 55 feet
from the closest property line.
   F.   Roof mounted solar panels, no taller than six feet above the roof on
which it is mounted.
   G.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work.
   H.   Temporary use of a dwelling structure within a new subdivision for use
as a job office and real estate office for the subject subdivision, which use
shall terminate upon substantial completion (75 percent of the lots or units
have been sold by the developer) or abandonment of the project (lots, units, or
homes are not available for sale by developer).
   I.   In the R-2 and R-3 Districts, zero lot line parcels are permitted for
two-family residential buildings to provide for separate ownership of each
dwelling unit, subject to compliance with the following requirements:
      (1)   The lot or parcel must meet all of the requirements for two-family
residences; including lot size, width and setbacks; prior to the lot or parcel
being divided into two parcels.
      (2)   Following said division, each tract must comply with all zoning
requirements, with the exceptions of:
         (a)   side yard setback on one side only which is defined as the
common wall between dwelling units;
         (b)   minimum area individually for the two new tracts; and
         (c)   minimum lot width individually for the two new tracts.
      (3)   Each unit of a two-family dwelling must have or construct their own
separate access and utility service. Joint access may be permitted provided an
easement covering said access has been recorded in Grundy County.
      (4)   The division of two-family building must be split by a common
horizontal boundary line that defines the common wall between the units. Said
common wall must have an approved one-hour fire resistive wall between the
units that extends from the footings to the roof, or must comply with the then
current building code, whichever is more restrictive.
      (5)   Prior to said division, restrictive and protective covenants shall
be recorded in Grundy County that provides for the owners of both units
together to be jointly and severally liable and responsible for the maintenance
and repair of the common wall and all other common elements of the properties
such as utilities, services, and driveways.
      (6)   A two-family dwelling that has been divided shall in all respects,
other than the division thereof, be considered as a two-family dwelling and
shall meet all requirements pertaining thereto with the express understanding
that nothing herein shall be construed to permit the separate use of one or
both of the resulting tracts of land in the event the one or both units are
damaged, destroyed, or demolished.
   J.   In the R-3 District, developed as an Independent Living or Assisted
Living Facility, an accessory management office, retail convenience or service
shop may be permitted provided that such complex be under one management or
similar control and contains more than 30 permanent dwelling units and provided
that:
      (1)   Such shops are located on the first floor or lower and there is no
entrance to such place of business except from the inside of the building or
internal courtyard.
      (2)   Display of any stock, goods, or advertising is so arranged that it
cannot be viewed from outside the building.
      (3)   No advertising sign shall be permitted that exceeds one square foot
in area.
   K.   Club houses within a residential subdivision where ownership is
maintained under a homeowners association or multi-family complex under one
ownership. Clubhouses shall be constructed of materials similar to the
principal structures within the development and shall meet all site development
regulations specified herein.
   L.   In the R-4 District, management offices, service buildings, maintenance
buildings, storm shelters, recreation buildings, vending or food services
including groceries, coin operated laundry facilities and mini-storage units,
may be permitted if approved by Council on a site plan as subordinate use to
the mobile home park.
5.   Accessory Structures. Accessory structures may be constructed in
residential districts as permitted in Section
165.07(5) of this chapter.
6.   Site Development Regulations. Dimensional requirements for residential
districts are as follows:
SITE DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
Regulator R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4
SITE DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
Regulator                          R-1    R-2   R-3    R-4
Minimum Lot Area1 (square feet)
Single Family                      8,712  6,000 8,712  8,712
Two-Family                         -      8,712 8,712  8,712
Multi-Family                       -      -     10,000 10,000
Multi-Family, per dwelling unit    -      -     2,500  2,500
Townhome, per dwelling unit        -      -     2,500  2,500
Other Principal Structures         10,000
Minimum Lot Width1 (Feet)
Single Family                      70     50    70     70
Two-Family                         -      70    70     70
Multi-Family                       -      -     90     90
Townhome, per dwelling unit        -      -     25     25
Other Principal Structures         90     90    90     90
Minimum Front Yard (Feet)
All uses                           25     25    25     25
Minimum Rear Yard (Feet)
Dwellings                          30     30    30     30
Other Principal Structures         35     35    35     35
Accessory Buildings & Structures   5      5     5      5
Minimum Street Side Yard (Feet)
All uses                           25     15    25     25
Minimum Interior Side Yard (Feet)
Dwellings: 1 Story                 7      5     7      7
Dwellings: 1½ Stories             7      6     7      7
Dwellings: 2 and 2 ½ Stories      8      7     8      8
Dwellings: 3 Stories or more       10     10    10     10
Other Principal Structures         16     16    16     16
Accessory Buildings & Structures   54     54    54     54
Maximum Structure Height (Feet)
Principal building                 452    452   452    452
Accessory Structure                203    203   203    203
Maximum Structure Height (Stories)
Principal building                 3      3     3      3
Accessory building                 1.5    1.5   1.5    1.5
Notes:
1.   Use of existing lots of record that do not conform to the R-
2 requirements for lot area or width; for single family and two-family uses
only; are specified in Section
165.08
For each one foot that the building sets back beyond the required front,
side, and rear yards, one foot may be added to the height limit of such
building or portion thereof; provided however, that no building shall
exceed a height of 75 feet.
For the maximum height of specific accessory uses (satellite dishes,
antenna towers, roof- mounted antennas, and roof-mounted solar panels),
refer to
165.10(4).
Accessory building setbacks on lots of record that do not conform to the R-
2 requirements for lot area or width; for one- and two-family uses only;
are specified in Section
165.14(1).
 
7.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided as required by
Section
165.16. Loading zones, when required, shall be provided as required by Section
165.15.
8.   Site Plans. Site plans shall be required for all uses except single family
and duplex family residential dwellings. See Chapter 161 for Site Plan
requirements.
9.   Architectural Design Standards. Refer to Chapter 161 for architectural
standards for uses other than one- and two-family dwellings.
10.   Open Space Requirements. Open space requirements shall be required in
conformance with Section
165.07(12).
11.   Buffer Screening. Refer to Section
165.18 for requirements regarding buffer plantings, fences, and screening,
including screening of outdoor storage areas.
12.   Exceptions and Modifications. See Section
165.14 for exceptions to the residential zoning district regulations.
165.11   COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS (C-1, C-2, C-3).
The commercially zoned districts are intended to provide for high quality area
of various densities and intensities in an effort to promote quality of life,
health, and general welfare of citizens and visitors while providing a large
variety of services and shopping, in a manner consistent with good planning
policies and practice. It shall be generally recognized that the type of use is
not so important as the manner in which the use is accomplished. It is intended
that these districts shall not be used indiscriminately to permit any use that
could potentially be detrimental to the intent of the Zoning Ordinance.
1.   Commercial Districts.
   A.   C-1 Central Business District. The C-1 District is intended to provide
appropriate development regulations in the Main Street area. A variety of
commercial uses are permitted, with ground level retail and office uses and
upper level office or residential uses. Off-street parking is not required.
This grouping of uses is designed to strengthen the Central Business District’s
role as a center for trade, service and civic life.
   B.   C-2 General Commercial District. The C-2 District is intended and
designed to provide for personal services for nearby residences and convenience
shopping of the locally travelling public. Uses are intended to be low-
intensity businesses that are wholly contained within the buildings. The design
of buildings in the district which adjoin residential uses is encouraged to be
residential in character, with pitched roofs and landscaping.
   C.   C-3 Highway Commercial District. The C-3 District is intended and
designed to provide for general uses and activities of a retail business,
service industry or professional office character that, by nature of their
business, provide service and commodities that benefit the community at large.
These uses may create land use conflicts with adjacent residential areas,
requiring sensitivity in design. This district is most appropriately located
along arterial streets or in areas that can be adequately buffered from
residential districts.
2.   Principal Permitted Uses. Principal permitted uses for commercial
districts are as follows:
COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USE C-1 C-2 C-3
COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USE                                                        C- C-2 C-3
                                                                               1
Animal boarding and kennels, domesticated only.                                       P
Animal hospitals and veterinary clinics.                                       P  P   P
Auditoriums, movie theaters.                                                   P      P
Automotive – automobile, truck & equipment sales & service.                  PR     PR
Automotive – service and repairs, including tire sales and small engine         P   P
repair.
Automotive – Truck or trailer rental establishments.                                P
Automotive – vehicle wash.                                                      P   P
Automotive supply (retail).                                                    P      P
Banks and financial institutions, including ATM and drive-thru teller lanes.   P  P   P
Business and professional offices and agencies serving general public.         P  P   P
Business and professional offices not serving general public.                  -  P   P
Cemetery services – Funeral homes, mortuaries.                                  P   P
Civic – Libraries, museums and similar institutions.                         P  P   P
Civic – Private clubs, lodges, youth centers, or veterans organizations,     P  P   P
except those holding a beer permit or liquor license.
Civic – Public parks and playgrounds.                                           P   P
Civic – Farmer’s market.                                                   P  P
Commercial entertainment – (indoors) including fitness centers and amusement P  P   P
centers except adult entertainment.
Commercial recreation (primarily outdoors) including private playgrounds,             P
parks and golf courses; and amusement enterprises.
Convenience stores, gas stations.                                                 SUP SUP
Drinking establishments, billiard halls.                                       P  P   P
Education – Colleges and universities; including classrooms, administration     P   P
buildings, and athletic facilities.
Education – Child care, including day care centers and pre-schools.             P   P
Education – Commercial trade schools and business colleges.                  P  P   P
Education – Primary and secondary schools, public and private.                  P   P
Education – Residential housing including dormitories, fraternities, and            P
sororities if recognized by the local college or university.
Hotels – Hotels, B&Bs, Inns.                                                 P      P
Laundry – Dry cleaning operations occupying more than l,000 sf. of gross area.      P
Laundry – Launderettes, coin-operated - pressing, repair, dry cleaning pickupP  P   P
and dry cleaning operations occupying less than l,000 sf. of gross floor area.
Medical hospitals.                                                                    P
Medical offices, health clinics.                                               P  P   P
Post office Substations.                                                       P  P   P
Printing and publishing houses.                                                       P
Religious institutions.                                                           P
Residential – Apartments located only on second floor and above.             P
Residential – Multiple-family apartments and condominiums; and townhomes,       P
either attached or detached.
Residential – Nursing homes, assisted care facilities, independent care         P
facilities, and group homes.
Residential – Single-family and two-family dwellings.                           P
Restaurants – Full service sit-down; delicatessens, ice cream parlors, coffeeP  P   P
shops, and fast food including carry-out; excluding drive-throughs.
Restaurants – Fast food with drive-throughs, including coffee shops.                P
Retail shops (less than 6,000 s.f.) including grocery stores, drugstores,      P  P   P
bakeries, hardware stores.
Retail stores (6,000 s.f. and larger) including supermarkets and home                 P
improvement stores; may include outdoor sales yards.
Retail stores with associated manufacturing such as pottery shops with kilns.  P      P
Retail stores with incidental repairs (appliance, bicycle, jewelry).           P  P   P
Retail – Nurseries and greenhouses.                                                 P
Salons – Hair, nail, tattoo, and similar personal services.                  P  P   P
Studios – Music, photographic, dance, and fitness centers, less than 6,000   P  P   P
s.f.
Warehouse – Locker storage & retail sales only.                                     P
Utility – Public utility structures necessary for service of the area;       PR PR  PR
railroad right-of-way and tracks excluding depots and yard.
Other retail business or service establishments equivalent to the permitted
uses listed above as determined by P & Z and approved by Council. Criteria for
equivalency include but are not limited to traffic, odors, noise, and lighting PR PR  PR
levels.
Key:
P = Permitted Use   PR = Permitted Use With Restrictions
SUP = Special Use Permit (BOA approved)   Blank = Use Not Permitted
 
3.   Restrictions for Principal Permitted Uses.
   A.   Outdoor storage of materials or equipment is not permitted for any use
in the C-1 or C-2 Districts except and specifically approved by Council on a
site plan. Said storage shall be limited to areas designated on the site plan
and shall be maintained and screened in conformance to the site plan.
   B.   Automobile, truck and equipment sales and service shall be permitted
provided that all outside storage, display and parking areas shall be
designated on and maintained in conformance with an approved site plan.
   C.   No uses shall be permitted to be established or maintained in any
district which by reason of its nature or manner of operation is or may become
hazardous, noxious, or offensive owning to the emission of odor, dust, smoke,
cinders, gas, fumes, noise, vibrations, refuse matter, or water-carried waste.
   D.   Public utility structures and facilities including but not limited to
telephone, cable television, and internet services, are subject to restrictions
defined in Section
165.10(3)(E).
   E.   Permitted uses with restrictions shall demonstrate said use will not
have any detrimental impact on existing neighboring uses due to traffic
congestion or parking needs before being considered a permitted use.
4.   Accessory Uses. Uses not permitted as a principal permitted use for that
zoning district shall not be permitted as an accessory use except as
specifically permitted in this subsection. The following accessory uses are
permitted in commercial zoning districts:
   A.   Customary accessory uses and structures incidental to the permitted
principal uses.
   B.   Private garage or carport in association with a permitted residential
use.
   C.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work.
5.   Accessory Structures. Accessory structures may be constructed in
commercial districts as permitted in Section
165.07(5).
6.   Site Development Regulations. Dimensional requirements for commercial
districts are as follows:
SITE DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS FOR COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
Regulator C-1 C-2 C-3
SITE DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS FOR COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
Regulator                               C-1        C-2        C-3
Minimum Lot Area (feet)                 None       2,5004     2,5004
Minimum Lot Width (feet)                None       50         50
Minimum Front Yard Depth (feet)         0          20         20
Minimum Street Side Yard Depth (feet)   0          20         20
Minimum Interior Side Yard Depth (feet) 0          8          8
Minimum Rear Yard Depth (feet)          0          20         20
Building Height Limit                   5 stories  5 stories  5 stories
                                        or 50 feet or 50 feet or 50 feet
Notes:
Except where residential uses are permitted, lot area shall be 1,000 square
feet minimum per dwelling unit.
Permitted one- and two-family dwellings in the C-1, C-2, and C-3 Districts
must meet the minimum lot area and lot width requirements of the R-
2 District for said use.
 
7.   Off-Street Loading. Off-street loading, when required, shall be provided
as required by Section
165.15 for all commercial districts with the exception of C-1 Zoning District.
8.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided for all uses in
all commercial districts with the exception of C-1 Zoning District. See Section
165.16 for off-street parking requirements.
9.   Site Plans. Site plans shall be required for all uses in all commercial
districts except single family and two-family residential dwellings. See
Chapter 161 for Site Plan requirements.
10.   Architectural Design Standards. Architectural Standards shall be required
for all uses in all commercial districts consistent with the provisions of
Chapter 161, Site Plans.
11.   Open Space Requirements. Open space requirements shall be required for
all commercial zoning districts, with the exception of the C-1 District, in
conformance with Section
165.07(12).
12.   Buffer Screening. Refer to Section
165.18 for requirements regarding buffer plantings, fences, and screening,
including screening of outdoor storage areas.
13.   Signs. All signage including, but not limited to, building and wall
signs, monument and pole signs, shall be in conformance with Section
165.17.
14.   Exceptions and Modifications. See Section
165.14 for exceptions to the commercial zoning district regulations.
165.12   INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS (M-1, M-2).
The industrially zoned districts are intended to provide for manufacturing
processes of various intensities needed on a local, State or national level
while promoting the quality of life, health, and general welfare desired by the
citizens of the City and in a manner consistent with good planning policies and
practice. It is intended that these districts shall not be used
indiscriminately to permit any use that could potentially be detrimental to the
intent of the Zoning Ordinance.
1.   Industrial Districts.
   A.   M-1 Light Industrial District. The M-1 District is intended to reserve
sites appropriate for the location of industrial uses with relatively limited
environmental effects. The district is designed to provide appropriate space
and regulations to encourage good quality industrial development while assuring
that facilities are served with adequate parking and loading facilities and
buffered from less intensive uses.
   B.   M-2 Heavy Industrial District. The M-2 District is intended to
accommodate a wide variety of industrial uses, some of which may have
significant external effects. These uses may have operating characteristics
that create conflicts with lower-intensity surrounding land uses. The district
provides the reservation of land for these activities and includes buffering
requirements to reduce incompatibility.
2.   Principal Permitted Uses. Principal permitted uses for industrial
districts are as follows:
INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USE M-1 M-2
INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USE                                                           M-1 M-2
Animal boarding and kennels, domesticated only.                                   P   P
Animal hospitals and veterinary clinics.                                          P   P
Animal livery stable or riding academy.                                               P
Automotive – automobile, truck and equipment sales and service; automotive      PR  P
supply.
Automotive – service and repairs, including tire sales and repair and small     P   P
engine repair.
Automotive – assembly or major repairs, machine shops.                          P   P
Automotive – body and fender repair shop, but not including automobile wrecking P   P
or used parts yards, or outside storage of automobile component parts.
Automotive – Tire vulcanizing, re-treading and recapping.                           P
Automotive – Truck or trailer rental establishments.                            P   P
Automotive – Truck stop, including repairs.                                     P   P
Automotive – Vehicle wash.                                                      P   P
Business – Technology business related to manufacturing, research and           P   P
distribution.
Cemetery Services – Funeral homes, mortuaries.                                  P   P
Cemetery Services – Crematories, if not less than 200 feet from any “R” distPictP
Cemetery Services – Monument sales and engraving.                               P   P
Commercial Entertainment – (indoors) including fitness centers and amusement    PR  PR
centers except studios and adult entertainment.
Commercial Entertainment – Adult entertainment business.                        PR  PR
Commercial Recreation (primarily outdoors) including private playgrounds, parks   PR  PR
and golf courses; and amusement enterprises.
Convenience stores, gas stations.                                                 P   P
Drinking establishments, billiard halls.                                          P   P
Laboratories – film, testing, experimental.                                     P   P
Laundry – Bag, carpet and rug cleaning.                                         P   P
Laundry – dry cleaning operations occupying more than 6,000 sf of gross floor   P   P
area.
Laundry – launderettes, coin-operated – pressing, repair, dry cleaning pickup and
dry cleaning operations occupying less than 6,000 square feet of gross floor      P   P
area.
Manufacture and repair of electric signs, advertising structures, light sheet         P
metal products, and heating & ventilating equipment.
Manufacture of musical instruments, novelties and molded rubber products.             P
Manufacture of pottery or other similar ceramic products, using only previously       P
pulverized clay and kilns fired only by electricity or natural gas.
Manufacture or assembly of electrical appliances, instruments and devices.            P
Manufacturing creameries, bottle works, wholesale ice and ice cream plants, cold      P
storage warehousing and distribution stations.
Manufacturing, compounding, assembling or treatment of articles or merchandise
from previously prepared materials such as bone, cloth, cork, fiber, leather,         P
paper, plastics, metals or stones, tobacco, wax, yarns, and wood.
Manufacturing, distribution, compounding, processing, packaging or treatment of
cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, and food products, except fish and meat products,         P
cereals, sauerkraut, vinegar, yeast, stock feed, flour, and the rendering or
refining of fats and oils.
Medical hospitals.                                                                P   P
Metals – Blacksmith, welding, cooperage works or other metal shop including
enameling, lacquering or painting with controlled emissions not causing noxious   PR  P
fumes or odors.
Metals – Foundry casting lightweight non-ferrous metals or electric foundry, not    P
causing noxious fumes or odors.
Mineral extraction, sand and gravel pits, and smelting of ores.                       P
Nurseries and greenhouses.                                                        P   P
Post office substations.                                                          P   P
Printing and publishing houses.                                                   P   P
Public transportation terminals, including railroad stations, bus stations,       SUP SUP
airports and landing fields.
Religious institutions.                                                           P   P
Restaurants – Full service sit-down, delicatessens, ice cream parlors, and fast P   P
food including carry-out.
Restaurants – Fast food drive-through.                                          P   P
Retail farm machinery and mobile/modular home sales and repair.                   P   P
Retail hardware and lumber yards, building material sales yards, millwork.        P   P
Retail hardware stores; home improvement stores excluding outdoor sales yards.    P   P
Retail shops (less than 6,000 sf).                                                P   P
Retail stores (6,000 sf and larger).                                              P   P
Retail stores with associated manufacturing such as pottery shops with kilns.     P   P
Retail stores with incidental repairs (appliance, bicycle, jewelry).              P   P
Sawmill, planing mill, and manufacture of wood products.                              PR
Tannery.                                                                              P
Warehouse – Locker storage and retail sales only.                               P   P
Warehouse – Mini-storage, RV storage, boat storage.                             P   P
Warehouse storage and distribution of explosives, liquid fertilizer or coal.          PR
Warehouse storage and distribution of non-flammable and non-explosive goods.      P   P
Wholesale – Bakeries.                                                           P   P
Wholesale storage or refining of petroleum, ethanol or products thereof including     SUP
asphalt plants.
Yards – Circus, carnival or similar transient enterprise.                           SUP
Yards – Concrete mixing, concrete product manufacture.                              PR
Yards – Contractors’ equipment storage yard or plant, including hauling servicPR, P
or rental of equipment commonly used by contractors.
Yards – junk, iron, rag, waste paper; including storage or bailing if completely    PR
obscured.
Yards – livestock feed sales and storage provided dust is effectively controlledPR  PR
Yards – Sanitary landfill or transfer station.                                      PR
Yards – truck terminal yards.                                                       PR
Utility – public utility structures necessary for service of the area; railroad PR  PR
right-of-way and tracks excluding depots and yard.
Other manufacturing or service establishments equivalent to the permitted uses    PR  PR
above.
Key:
P = Permitted Use   PR   = Permitted Use With Restrictions
SUP = Special Use Permit (BOA approved)   Blank   = Use Not Permitted
 
3.   Restrictions for Principal Permitted Uses.
   A.   Outdoor storage of materials or equipment is not permitted for any use
in the M-1 or M-2 Districts except and specifically approved by Council on a
site plan. Said storage shall be limited to areas designated on the site plan
and shall be maintained and screened in conformance to the site plan. All
storage yards shall be designed to contain all materials, dust, odors, debris
and the like on site.
   B.   Automobile, truck and equipment sales and service shall be permitted
provided that all outside storage, display, and parking areas shall be used and
maintained in conformance with an approved site plan and the parking, display
and storage of vehicles for hire, rental, or sale shall he limited to the area
designated for such use in the site plan. All storage shall be on paved
surfaces.
   C.   No uses shall be permitted to be established or maintained in any
district which by reason of its nature or manner of operation is or may become
hazardous, noxious, or offensive owning to the emission of odor, dust, smoke
cinders, gas, fumes, noise, vibrations, refuse matter, or water-carried waste.
   D.   Permitted uses with restrictions shall demonstrate said use will not
have any detrimental impact on existing neighboring uses due to traffic
congestion or parking needs before being considered a permitted use.
   E.   Adult Entertainment Business uses shall be subject to the following
restrictions:
      (1)   These uses shall not be located within 1,500 feet of any other
adult entertainment use; within 1,500 feet of any public, parochial or private
school, licensed daycare facility, regular school bus stop, church, public
park, supermarket, convenience store or restaurant catering to family trade; or
within 1,500 feet of any residential zoning district or residentially-used
property. Said distances shall be measured from property line to property line.
      (2)   All building openings, entries, exits, windows and the like shall
be covered or screened in such a manner as to prevent a view into the interior
from any public or semi-public area. Whenever it is considered feasible by the
Zoning Administrator, the building shall be oriented so as to minimize any
possibility of viewing the interior from public or semi-public areas.
      (3)   Advertisement, displays, signs or other promotional materials shall
not be shown or exhibited so as to be visible to the public from pedestrian
sidewalks, trails, or other public or semi-public areas.
   F.   Public utility structures and facilities including but not limited to
telephone, cable television, and internet services, are subject to restrictions
defined in Section
165.10(3)(E).
4.   Accessory Uses. Uses not permitted as a principal permitted use for that
zoning district shall not be permitted as an accessory use except as
specifically permitted herein. The following accessory uses are permitted in
industrial zoning districts:
   A.   Customary accessory uses and structures incidental to permitted
principal uses.
   B.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work.
5.   Accessory Structures. Accessory structures may be constructed in
industrial districts as permitted in Section
165.07(5).
6.   Site Development Regulations. Dimensional requirements for industrial
districts are as follows:
SITE DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS FOR INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
Regulator M-1 M-2
SITE DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS FOR INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
Regulator                        M-1                  M-2
Building Height Limit            4 Stories or 75 feet 4 Stories or 75 feet
Minimum Lot Area                 None                 1 acre
Minimum Lot Width                None                 150 feet
Minimum Front Yard Depth         25 feet              25 feet
Minimum Street Side Yard Depth   25 feet1             25 feet1
Minimum Interior Side Yard Depth 101                  101
Minimum Rear Yard Depth          None1                40 feet3
Notes:
1.   Except 200 feet where adjacent to “R” residential districts.
 
7.   Required Conditions. No use shall be permitted to be established or
maintained which by reason of its nature or manner of operation is or may
become hazardous, noxious or offensive owing to the emission of odor, dust,
smoke cinders, gas, fumes, noise, vibrations, refuse matter, or water-carried
waste.
8.   Off-Street Loading. Off-street loading shall be provided as required by
Section
165.15 for all industrial districts.
9.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided as required by
Section
165.16 for all industrial districts.
10.   Site Plans. Site plans shall be required for all uses in all industrial
districts. See Chapter 157 for site plan requirements.
11.   Open Space Requirements. Open space requirements shall be required for
all industrial zoning districts in conformance with Section
165.07(12).
12.   Buffer Screening. Refer to Section
165.18 for requirements regarding buffer plantings, fences, and screening,
including screening of outdoor storage areas.
13.   Exceptions and Modifications. See Section
165.14 for exceptions to the industrial zoning district regulations.
165.13   FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT REGULATIONS (FP).
The Floodplain Overlay District is intended to identify the general location of
areas within the floodway, floodplain or having special flood hazards. The
regulations set forth in this section, or elsewhere in this chapter when
applicable, shall apply in the Floodplain Overlay District.
1.   The City has adopted the regulations and flood maps of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in accordance with the National Flood
Insurance Act of 1968 and the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973. The
floodplain regulations are stipulated in
Chapter 160, Floodplain Management of this Code of Ordinances.
2.   Additional regulations are imposed upon properties within the Floodplain
Overlay District for the protection of life and property from losses and
hazards caused the occupancy and use of the floodplain by buildings, structures
or activities that may increase the effects of flooding.
3.   No structure or land shall be used and no structure or wastewater
treatment facility (including septic systems) shall be located, extended,
converted, or structurally altered in any designated Floodplain Overlay
District (FP) without full compliance with the terms of said
Chapter 160, Floodplain Management, including but not limited to the
requirement for a Flood Plain Development Permit.
4.   If there are any discrepancies between the flood plain as may be depicted
on the Official Zoning Map and the flood hazard areas as depicted on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map, the Flood Insurance Rate Map shall govern.
5.   All parcels and uses of property shall be in accordance with the district
regulations of the underlying zoning district, except as limited by said
Chapter 160, Floodplain Management.
165.14   EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.
1.   Use of Existing Lots for Residential Purposes. In any R-1 or R-2 Zoning
District, a single-family or two-family dwelling may be constructed, remodeled,
or reconstructed on any lot of official record as of June 6, 1977, irrespective
of its area, provided that the following minimum requirements shall apply. All
other applicable zoning regulations shall apply to such lots and buildings.
   A.   Lot Width: The lot of record has a width of not less than 50 feet.
   B.   Front Yard: The average setback of the nearest adjacent buildings,
fronting on the same street, shall be used, but in no case shall it be less
than 18 feet.
   C.   Street Side Yard: 15 feet, minimum.
   D.   Interior Side Yards: five feet, minimum.
   E.   Rear Yard: 25 feet, minimum
   F.   Accessory Buildings and structures: three feet, minimum, in interior
side yard or rear yard only.
2.   Structures Permitted Above the Height Limit. The building height
limitations of this chapter shall be modified as follows:
   A.   Chimneys, steeples, cooling towers, cell towers, small wind energy
conversion systems, elevator bulk-heads, fire towers, monuments, stacks, stage
towers, or scenery lofts, tanks, water towers, ornamental towers and spires,
radio or television towers, or necessary mechanical appurtenances may be
erected to a height in accordance with a special use permit subject to the
provisions contained herein and elsewhere within this City Code and further
provided that a fall zone setback equal to 150 percent of the total system
height has been met unless said fall zone setback requirement has been waived
by City Council.
3.   Division of a Duplex lot into two lots for separate ownership. Lots
containing a duplex or two-family dwelling are permitted to be subdivided,
subject to the following:
   A.   The lot or parcel being divided must originally conform to all R-
2 requirements for two-family lots.
   B.   Following division, each new tract must conform to all R-2 requirements
for two-family lots, with the exception that there shall be no setbacks on the
new zero lot line that follows the common wall of the units. However, setbacks
for accessory structures on the new zero lot line shall conform to the setbacks
required for internal side yards.
   C.   The common wall of the building must have an approved two-hour fire
wall between the units that extends from the footing to the roof.
   D.   Prior to division into two separate parcels, Restrictive and Protective
Covenants shall be recorded in the Grundy County Recorder's Office providing
for the property owners to be jointly responsible and liable for the
maintenance and repair of the common wall and all other common elements of the
dwelling including, but not limited to, utilities, sidewalks, and fences.
165.15   OFF-STREET LOADING SPACES.
In all districts except the C-1 Central Business District, in connection with
every building or part thereof hereafter erected having a gross floor area of
10,000 square feet or more, there shall be provided and maintained on the same
lot with such building at least one off-street loading space for each 20,000
square feet, or major fraction thereof, of gross floor area so used in excess
of 10,000 square feet.
1.   Each loading space shall be not less than 10 feet in width and at least 25
feet in length.
2.   Where loading spaces adjoin residential districts, they shall be set back
five feet and an opaque screen of six feet in height shall be installed and
maintained along the interior side yards and rear yards of the abutting
residential lots.
165.16   OFF-STREET PARKING AREA.
1.   In all zoning districts, except the “C-1” Central Business District, space
for parking and storage of vehicles shall be provided in accordance with the
following schedule, based on use of the property.
2.   In determining the number of parking spaces required by the table of
parking requirements, if a fractional space results, any fraction less than
one-half may be disregarded while fractions in excess of one-half shall be
counted as one parking space.
3.   In calculating parking requirements, a single building may be divided into
multiple uses, each with its own parking requirement which shall then be added
together.
4.   In buildings with multiple tenants having different uses with varying
times for peak occupancy, the Zoning Administrator may consider allowing a
portion of the parking spaces to fulfill the requirements for more than one
use.
5.   For uses not specifically designated, the Zoning Administrator is
authorized to determine the parking requirements using this table as a guide.
6.   Table of Parking Requirements.
USE PARKING REQUIREMENT
USE                                     PARKING REQUIREMENT
RESIDENTIAL
Single-family, Two-family               2 spaces for each dwelling unit,
                                        exclusive of garage
Multi-family dwellings, senior living   1.5 spaces per dwelling unit
facilities
Group homes                             1 space per every two beds
Home occupations                        Demand established by particular home
                                        occupation authorized
ROOMS-FOR-RENT SITUATIONS
Boarding houses                         1 space for each bedroom
                                        1.25 spaces for each bedroom plus
Hotels, motels, B&Bs, inns              additional space (as per table) for
                                        restaurant or other facilities
SALES AND RENTALS OF GOODS, MERCHANDISE, AND EQUIPMENT
Storage – miscellaneous               1 space per 200 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
Convenience store                       1 space per 150 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
Low-volume traffic, determined by       1 space per 400 square feet of gross
Zoning Administrator                    floor area
High-volume traffic, determined by      1 space per 200 square feet of gross
Zoning Administrator                    floor area
Wholesale sales                         1 space per 400 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
OFFICE, CLERICAL, RESEARCH, AND SERVICES NOT PRIMARILY RELATED TO GOODS OR
MERCHANDISE
Operations designed to attract and
serve customers or clients on the
premises, such as the offices of        1 space per 200 square feet of gross
attorneys, physicians, other            floor area
professions, insurance and stock
brokers, travel agents, government
office buildings, etc.
Operations designed to attract little
or no customer or client traffic other  1 space per 400 square feet of gross
than employees of the entity operating  floor area
the principal use
Offices or clinics of physicians or     1 space per 150 square feet of gross
dentists                                floor area
                                        1 space per 200 square feet of gross
Banks with drive-up windows             floor area plus reservoir lanes equal
                                        to 3 spaces per window
MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, CREATING, REPAIRING, RENOVATING, PAINTING, CLEANING,
ASSEMBLY OF GOODS, MERCHANDISE, AND EQUIPMENT
(All operations conducted entirely within a fully enclosed building)
Majority of dollar volume of business   1 space per 400 square feet of gross
done with walk-in trade                 floor area
                                        1 space for every two employees on the
Majority of dollar volume of business   maximum shift in industrial zoning
not done with walk-in trade             districts and 1 space per 200 square
                                        feet of gross flow area in commercial
                                        zoning districts
                                        1 space for every two employees on the
                                        maximum shift except that if
Operations conducted within or outside  permissible in the commercial
fully enclosed building                 districts, such uses may provide 1
                                        space per 200 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
EDUCATIONAL, CULTURAL, RELIGIOUS, PHILANTHROPIC, SOCIAL, FRATERNAL USES:
Elementary and secondary (including     1.75 spaces per classroom in elementary
associated grounds and other            schools, 10 spaces per classroom in
facilities)                             high schools
Trade or vocational schools             1 space per 100 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
College, universities, community
colleges (including associated          1 space per 150 square feet of gross
facilities such as dormitories, office  floor area
buildings, athletic fields, etc.)
                                        1 space for every 80 square feet of
Churches, synagogues, temples           worship area plus one space for every
                                        two employees
Libraries, museums, art galleries, art
centers, and similar uses (including    1 space per 300 square feet of gross
associated educational and              floor area
instructional activities)
Social, fraternal clubs and lodges,     1 space per 300 square feet of gross
union halls, and similar uses           floor area
OUTDOOR RECREATION, AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT:
                                        1 space for every three persons the
Bowling alleys, skating rinks, indoor   facilities are designed to accommodate
tennis and squash courts, billiard and  when fully utilized plus 1 space per
pool halls, indoor athletic and         200 square feet of gross floor area
exercise facilities, and similar uses   used in a manner not susceptible to
                                        such calculation
Movie theaters                          1 space for every four seats
Stadiums and arenas designed to seat or 1 space for every four seats
accommodate more than 1,000 people
Recreational facilities such as golf    1 space per 200 square feet of area
and country clubs, swimming or tennis   within enclosed buildings, plus 1 space
clubs; except those as an accessory use for every 3 persons that use outdoor
to a school                             facilities
Miniature golf course, skateboard park, 1 space per 300 square feet of area
water slide, and similar                plus 1 space per 200 square feet of
                                        building gross floor area
                                        1 space per tee plus 1 space per 200
Driving range                           square feet of building gross floor
                                        area
Horseback riding stables                1 space per horse when fully occupied
Automobile and motorcycle racing tracks 1 space for every three seats
Drive-in movie theaters                 1 space per speaker outlet
lNSTITUTIONAL RESIDENCE OR CARE OR CONFINEMENT FACILITIES:
Hospitals, clinics, other medical       2 spaces per bed or 1 space per 150
(including mental health) treatment     square feet of gross floor area,
                                        whichever is greater
Nursing care institutions, intermediate 3 spaces for every five beds. Multi-
care institutions, institutions for     family units developed or sponsored by
infirm persons or persons with          a public or nonprofit agency for
disabilities, child care institutions   limited income families or the elderly
                                        require only 1 space
Institutions (other than halfway houses 1 space for every two employees on
where mentally ill persons are          maximum shift
confined)
Penal and correctional facilities       1 space for every two employees on
                                        maximum shift
RESTAURANTS, DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS:
No substantial carry-out or delivery
service, no drive-in service, no        1 space per 100 square feet of gross
service or consumption outside fully    floor area
enclosed structure allowed
No substantial carry-out or delivery    1 space per 100 square feet of gross
service; no drive-in service, service   floor area plus 1 space for every four
or consumption outside fully enclosed   outside seats
structure allowed
Carry-out and delivery service, no      1 space per 100 square feet of gross
drive-in service, consumption outside   floor area plus 1 space for every four
fully enclosed structure allowed        outside seats
Carry-out and delivery service, drive-  1 space per 100 square feet of gross
in service, service or consumption      floor area plus 1 space for every four
outside fully enclosed structure        outside seats plus reservoir lane
allowed                                 capacity equal to 5 spaces per drive-in
                                        window
MOTOR VEHICLE RELATED SALES AND SERVICE OPERATIONS:
Motor vehicle sales or rental; mobile   1 space per 200 square feet of gross
homes sales                             floor area
Sales with installation of motor
vehicle parts or accessories (e.g.,     l space per 200 square feet of gross
tires, mufflers, etc.) fully enclosed   floor area
structure allowed
Motor vehicle repair and maintenance,   1 space per 200 square feet of gross
not including substantial body work     floor area
Motor vehicle painting and bodv work    l space per 200 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
                                        l space per 150 square feet of gross
                                        floor area of building, plus sufficient
Gas stations, convenience stores        parking area to accommodate vehicles at
                                        pumps without interfering with other
                                        parking spaces
                                        1 space for every three employees on
Car wash conveyor type                  the maximum shift plus reservoir
                                        capacity equal to five times the
                                        capacity of the washing operation
                                        l space for drying and cleaning
Car wash self-service type              purposes per stall plus two reservoir
                                        spaces in front of each stall
STORAGE AND PARKING:
(Storage of goods not related to sale or use of those goods on the same lot
where they are stored)
                                        l space for every two employees on the
All storage within completely enclosed  maximum shift but not less than 1 space
structures                              per 5,000 square feet of area devoted
                                        to storage (whether inside or outside)
                                        1 space for every two employees on the
Storage inside or outside completely    maximum shift but not less than 1 space
enclosed structures                     per 5,000 square feet of area devoted
                                        to storage (whether inside or outside)
OTHER:
Scrap materials, salvage yards, junk    1 space per 200 square feet of gross
yard, automobile graveyards             floor area
Service and enterprises related to      1 space per 200 square feet of gross
animals                                 floor area
Emergency services                      1 space per 200 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
Agricultural, mining, quarry operations 1 space for every two employees on
                                        maximum shift
Miscellaneous public and semi-public
facilities:
Airport                                 1 space per 200 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
Sanitary landfill                       l space for every two employees on
                                        maximum shift
Dry cleaner, laundromat                 1 space per 200 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
Open air markets and horticultural      1 space per 1,000 square feet of lot
sales                                   area used for storage, display, or
                                        sales
Funeral home                            1 space per 100 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
Cemetery                                No requirement
Day care centers                        1 space per employee plus 1 space per
                                        200 square feet of gross floor area
Bus station, train station              1 space per 200 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
Commercial greenhouse operations area   1 space per 200 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
 
7.   Parking stalls shall be a minimum of nine feet wide by 19 feet long.
Aisles shall be a minimum of 24 feet wide unless otherwise approved on a site
plan.
8.   Parking areas shall be developed and maintained in accordance with the
following requirements:
   A.   A building permit shall be required prior to installing any new parking
lot or paving an existing gravel parking lot. A site plan must be approved for
any new parking lot having five or more parking stalls.
   B.   No part of any parking space shall be closer than five feet to any
established street right-of-way or alley line or property line. Where in or
adjoining an “R” District, an opaque screen of six feet in height shall be
installed and shall be maintained along all “R” District boundaries.
   C.   In all zoning districts, all off-street parking areas and driveways
shall be surfaced with an asphaltic or Portland cement binder pavement or such
other surfaces as shall be approved by the City Council on an approved site
plan.
   D.   A Stormwater Management Plan, in conformance with the Statewide Urban
Design Standards, shall be provided for approval by the City prior to
construction or paving any parking lot.
   E.   Any lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking area including
any commercial parking lots shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away
from adjoining premises in any “R” District. Such lighting shall be downcast
lighting with a maximum of one foot-candle at the property line.
   F.   Off-street parking areas shall be provided on the same lot with the
principal use, unless otherwise approved by the City Council.
165.17   SIGNS.
1.   Building Signs. Traffic and other municipal signs, traffic control devices
including railroad crossing signs, and legal notices are specifically exempt
from these regulations.
   A.   Building signs shall be permanently affixed to the structure; shall not
have projections extending horizontally more than six inches from the face of
the sign; and shall not project more than 15 feet above the roofline. Building
signs shall have a surface of one-half inch MDO plywood or better quality.
Where the building lot abuts any “R” district, such sign shall not be located
on any wall facing the residential district unless otherwise approved by
Council. All building signs constructed or substantially improved after the
adoption of the ordinance shall conform to these regulations.
   B.   Signs on the canopy of pump island at any gas station or convenience
store are exempt from these regulations, provided the total area of all canopy
signs is no more than one-half square foot per linear foot of street frontage.
Signs under such canopy, including those mounted on pumps, are exempt provided
letters are no taller than four inches and the sign area is no greater than two
square feet.
   C.   Signs on window or door awnings shall not be considered a sign unless
the awning is lit, in which case such signs are considered building signs.
   D.   Building signs shall not exceed the following dimensions:
BUILDING SIGN REGULATIONS
District Use Maximum size (Square Feet)
BUILDING SIGN REGULATIONS
District           Use                       Maximum size (Square Feet)
A-1                All Uses                  50
R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 Single Family, Two Family 2
R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 Multiple Family           50
R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 Other Permitted Uses      100
C-1, C-2, C-3      All Uses                  100
M-1, M-2           All Uses                  200
 
2.   Pole Signs and Monument Signs.
   A.   Pole and monument signs shall be no closer than 10 feet to any property
line and shall not have projections that extend horizontally more than six
inches from the face of the sign. Posts, anchor, and bracing shall be
constructed of materials treated to protect them from moisture. All signs shall
be constructed to handle wind loads. Where the lot abuts any “R” district,
signs shall not be located in any yard adjoining the residential district
unless otherwise approved by Council. All pole and monument signs constructed
or substantially improved after the adoption of the ordinance shall conform to
these regulations.
   B.   Pole and monument signs shall not exceed the following dimensions:
 
POLE AND MONUMENT SIGN REGULATIONS
District            Use             Max. Size (Sq Feet) Maximum Height (Feet
                                                        above ground)
R-1, R-2, R-3, R- 4 One- and Two-   -                   -
                    Family
R-1, R-2, R-3, R- 4 Multiple Family 50                  10
R-1, R-2, R-3, R- 4 Other Permitted 100                 15
                    Uses
C-1, C-2, C-3       All uses        100                 30
M-1, M-2            All uses        100                 35
 
3.   Temporary Signs.
   A.   Temporary signs include signs such as real estate signs, open house
signs, garage sale signs, bulletin boards, political signs, and similar.
   B.   Temporary signs shall not be posted for more than 30 days
   C.   Temporary signs shall not exceed six square feet in size and shall be
set back a minimum of 10 feet from any property line or right-of-way.
   D.   Temporary signs, such as those for special events, that are larger than
six square feet in size or temporary signs to be located within public
right­of-way shall be approved in writing by the Zoning Administrator.
4.   Prohibited Signs. All nonconforming signs, billboards, and outdoor
advertising structures shall be removed within one year after the principal use
of the property has been discontinued or the premises vacated.
165.18   BUFFER SCREENING.
The intent of the screening regulations is to lessen the transmission from one
property to another of noise, dust, and glare; to lessen visual pollution by
creating the impression of separation of spaces or entirely shielding one land
use from another; and establishing a sense of privacy from visual or physical
intrusion.
1.   General Screening Standard. Every development shall provide sufficient
screening so that neighboring properties are shielded from any adverse external
effects of that development; and the development is shielded from the negative
impacts of adjacent uses including streets and railroads.
2.   City Council may waive any and all buffer requirements at the time of Site
Plan approval or prior to a building permit being issued with consideration
given to the specific uses of the adjoining property or properties, orientation
of the buildings and service areas, existing natural vegetation, and other
issues that may affect the compatibility of the adjoining uses.
3.   “Burdened Zoning District” means the zoning classification of the property
on which screening must be installed. “Benefited Zoning District” means the
zoning classification of the property which is benefited or protected by the
required screening. Where screening is required under this section, the owner
of the property in the burdened district is responsible for the installation of
the required screening prior to issuance of an occupancy permit. The burdened
zoning district shall be interpreted to mean the zoning district permitting
more intensive uses unless otherwise determined by City Council at the time of
site plan approval.
4.   Table of Screening Requirements. Screening shall be in accordance with the
following table. The letter designations in the Table A or B refer to the type
of screening required as defined in Subsection 5. The designation “ – ” means
there are no presumptively required screening requirements.
SCREENING REQUIREMENTS
Burdened Zoning District BENEFITED ZONING DISTRICT
                         A-1 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 C-1 C-2 C-3 M-1 M-2
SCREENING REQUIREMENTS
Burdened Zoning District BENEFITED ZONING DISTRICT
                         A-1 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 C-1 C-2 C-3 M-1 M-2
A-1                      – A   A   A   A   – A   A   A   B
R-1                      A   -   -   A   A   – A   A   A   B
R-2                      A   -   -   A   A   – A   A   A   B
R-3                      A   A   A   – – – A   A   A   B
R-4                      A   A   A   – – – A   A   A   B
C-1                      – – – – – – – – – A
C-2                      A   A   A   A   A   – – A   A   A
C-3                      A   A   A   A   A   – A   -   A   A
M-1                      A   A   A   A   A   – A   A   – A
M-2                      B   B   B   B   B   A   A   A   A   –
 
5.   Description of Screens. The following two types of screens are hereby
established and are designated “A” and “B” (corresponding to above table):
   A.   Type “A,” Semi-opaque screen, means a screen that is opaque from the
ground to a height of three feet, with intermittent visual obstruction from
above the opaque portion to a height of at least 20 feet. The semi-opaque
screen is intended to partially block visual contact between uses and to create
a strong impression of the separation of spaces. The semi-opaque screen may be
composed of a wall, fence, landscaped earth berm, planted vegetation, or
existing vegetation. At maturity, the portion of intermittent visual
obstructions should not contain any completely unobstructed openings more than
30 feet wide, but may contain deciduous plants. A Type “A” screen should be
located within a 20 feet wide buffer easement unless waived by Council on an
approved site plan.
   B.   Type “B,” Opaque screen, means a screen that is opaque from the ground
to a height of at least six feet, with intermittent visual obstructions from
the opaque portion to a height of at least 20 feet. An opaque screen is
intended to exclude all visual contact between uses and to create a strong
impression of spatial separation. The opaque screen may be composed of a wall,
fence, landscaped earth berm, planted vegetation, or existing vegetation. The
opaque portion of the screen must be opaque in all seasons of the year. At
maturity, the portion of intermittent visual obstructions should not contain
any completely unobstructed openings more than 10 feet wide and may contain
deciduous plants. A Type “B” screen should be located within a 50 feet wide
buffer unless waived by Council on an approved site plan.
6.   Storage Areas. The outdoor storage of materials, equipment, or supplies,
when permitted in any commercial or industrial district, shall be located or
screened, fenced or landscaped so as to effectively prevent visibility of such
storage from all abutting residential zoning districts or abutting existing
residential uses. Such screening shall be sufficient if it prevents visibility
of such storage area by persons traveling on public right-of-way or standing at
level on the side or rear lot lines of such property. Such screening shall
comply with the standard for an opaque screen Type “B.”
165.19   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
1.   Board Established. There is hereby created a Board of Adjustment, composed
of five members who shall be appointed by City Council. Such members shall be
qualified by knowledge and experience to act in matters pertaining to City
Zoning. None of said members shall hold any elective position in the City. The
Board of Adjustment shall not act as the Planning and Zoning Commission, nor
shall a majority of the members be involved in the business of purchasing or
selling real estate.
2.   Term of Office and Compensation. Members shall hold office for staggered
terms of five years. Any vacancy occurring on the Commission cause by
resignation or otherwise shall be filled by the City Council for the unexpired
term. Members of the Board may be removed from office by the City Council for
cause upon written charges and after public hearing. Vacancies shall be filled
by City Council for the unexpired term of the member affected. All members of
the Board shall serve without compensation except their actual expenses, which
shall be subject to approval of the City Council.
3.   Meetings and Rules. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules necessary to
the conduct of its affairs, and in keeping with the provisions of this section.
Meetings shall be held at the call of the chairperson and at such other times
as the Board may determine. The chairperson or, in the chairperson's absence,
the acting chairperson may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses. All meetings shall be open to the public. The Board of Adjustment
shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each
agenda item requiring action, or if absent, abstaining, or otherwise failing to
vote, indicating such fact. The Board shall keep records of its examinations
and other official actions, all of which shall be public record and be
immediately filed in the office of the Zoning Administrator. The concurring
vote of three members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order,
requirement, decision, or determination of the Zoning Administrator, or to
decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is require to pass
under this chapter, or to effect any variation in the application of this
chapter.
4.   Finality of Decisions of the Board of Adjustment. All decisions and
findings of the Board of Adjustment on appeals, or applications for a variance,
special use permit, or special exception, after a hearing, shall in all
instances be final administrative decisions and shall be subject to judicial
review as is stated in the Code of Iowa.
5.   Appeals. Any person or persons, or any board, taxpayer, department, board,
or bureau of the City aggrieved by any decision of the Board of Adjustment may
seek review by a court of record of said decisions, in the manner provided by
the laws of the State and particularly by the Code of Iowa.
165.20   DUTIES OF BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
1.   Duties. The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers and
duties:
   A.   To hear and decide all applications for variances in the manner
prescribed in this chapter.
   B.   To hear and decide all applications for special use permits in the
manner prescribed in this chapter.
   C.   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in any
order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Zoning Administrator
in enforcement of this chapter.
2.   Variances. The Board of Adjustment, after a public hearing, may determine
and vary the regulations of this chapter in harmony with their general purpose
and intent, only in the specific instances hereinafter set forth, where the
Board of Adjustment makes written findings of fact in accordance with the
standards hereinafter set forth, where the standards hereinafter prescribed and
further, finds that there are no practical difficulties or particular hardships
in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the regulations of this
chapter.
   A.   Application for Variance. An application for a variance shall be filed
in writing with the Zoning Administrator by the owner of the subject property.
Said application shall contain such information as the Board of Adjustment may,
by rules, require. If property lines cannot be determined through existing
surveys or property markers, the request must be accompanied by a certified
survey.
   B.   Hearing on Application. Upon receipt in proper form of the
aforementioned application, the Board of Adjustment shall hold at least one
public hearing on the proposed variance. Notice of the time and place of such
hearing shall be published not less than four days nor more than 20 days in
advance of the public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the
City. Property owners within 300 feet of the property for which the variance is
being requested will be notified. Before an application is filed with the Board
of Adjustment, the appellant shall pay the City to cover the publishing and
administration costs of said application, per the fee schedule adopted from
time to time by resolution of the City Council.
   C.   Standards for Variance. The Board of Adjustment shall not vary the
regulations of this chapter, as authorized in this section; unless there is
evidence presented to it in each specific case that:
      (1)   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are unique to the
land, structure, or building involved and which are not applicable to other
lands, structures, or buildings in the same district.
      (2)   Literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under terms of this chapter. In other words, an unnecessary
hardship would result from the literal enforcement of this chapter.
      (3)   Special conditions and circumstances do not result from the actions
of the applicant.
      (4)   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant
any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other lands,
structures, or buildings in the same district.
   D.   Further Requirements.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall make a finding that the reasons set
forth in the application justify the granting of the variance, and that the
variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the reasonable use of
the land, building, or structure.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the
granting of the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of this chapter and the Reinbeck Comprehensive Plan, and will not be injurious
to the neighborhood, or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare.
      (3)   In granting any variance, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this chapter.
Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter.
   E.   Limitations.
      (1)   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Adjustment grant a
variance to allow for a use not permissible under the terms of this chapter in
the district involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the
terms of this chapter in the district.
      (2)   In no instance may the Board of Adjustment grant a variance to any
provisions of the adopted building codes.
3.   Special Use Permits. The Board of Adjustment shall review, before issuing
any special use permit, the conformity of the proposed building or use with the
standards of the planning intent of the zoning district regulations and the
Comprehensive Plan, and recognized principals of land use planning and civic
design.
   A.   Application for Special Use Permits. An application for a special
exception shall be filed in writing with the Zoning Administrator by the owner
of the subject property on a form as the Zoning Administrator shall prescribe.
The application shall be accompanied by such plans or date prescribed by the
Board of Adjustment and shall include a statement indicating the section of
this chapter under which the special use permit is sought and stating the
grounds on which it is requested.
   B.   Hearing on Application. Upon receipt in proper form of the
aforementioned application and statement, the Board of Adjustment shall hold at
least one public hearing on the proposed special use permit. Notice of the time
and place of such hearing shall be published not less than seven days nor more
than 20 days in advance of the public hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation in the City. Property owners within 300 feet of the property for
which the special use permit is being requested will be notified. Before an
application is filed with the Board of Adjustment, the appellant shall pay the
City to cover the publishing and administration costs of said application, per
the fee schedule adopted from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
   C.   Authorization. For each application for a special use permit, the
Zoning Administrator shall prepare and file with the Board of Adjustment
findings and recommendations, including recommended stipulations of additional
conditions and guarantees that are deemed necessary for the protection of the
public interest.
   D.   Standards. No special use permit shall be granted by the Board of
Adjustment unless such Board shall find:
      (1)   The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the special use
permit will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety,
comfort, or general welfare.
      (2)   The special use permit will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property already permitted or substantially diminish and
impair property values with the neighborhood.
      (3)   The establishment of special exceptions will not impede the normal
and orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for uses
permitted in the district.
      (4)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage stormwater detention
basins, and necessary facilities have been or are being provided.
      (5)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress and
egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion on public streets.
      (6)   The special use permit shall, in all other respects, conform to the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located, except as such
regulations may, in each instance, be modified in writing by the Board of
Adjustment.
   E.   Conditions and Guarantees. Prior to granting of any special use, the
Board of Adjustment shall stipulate such conditions and restrictions upon the
establishment, location, construction, maintenance, and operation of the
special use as is deemed necessary for the protection of the public interest
and to secure compliance with the standards and requirements specific in
Paragraph D above. In all cases in which the special use is granted, the Board
of Adjustment shall require such evidence and guarantees as it may deem
necessary as proof that the conditions stipulated in connection therewith are
being and will be complied with.
   F.   Denial and Revocation of Special Use Permits.
      (1)   Denial. No application for a special use permit that has been
denied wholly or in part by the Board of Adjustment shall be resubmitted for a
period of one year from the date of denial, except on the grounds of new
evidence or proof of change of conditions found to be valid by the Board of
Adjustment.
      (2)   Revocation. In any case where the special use has not been
established within one year after the date of granting thereof, the Board of
Adjustment may nullify the special use permit. However, before the Board
revokes the special use, it shall provide a written notice to the applicant and
the applicant shall have the right to request a hearing before the Board.
4.   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment.
   A.   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person aggrieved
or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the City affected by any
decision of the Zoning Administrator or Building Inspector. Such appeal shall
be taken within 10 days by filing with the City Clerk a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof. The City Clerk shall forthwith transmit to the
Board all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from is
taken. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from unless the Zoning Administrator Inspector certifies to the Board, after
notice of appeal has been filed with the City Clerk, that by reason of the
facts stated in the certificate, a stay would in the opinion of the Zoning
Administrator or Building Inspector, cause imminent peril to life or property.
In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining
order which may be granted by the Board or by a court of record on application
or notice to the City Clerk and the Zoning Administrator or Building Inspector
and on due cause shown.
   B.   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing on the appeal,
shall give public notice thereof as well as due notice to the parties in
interest, and shall decide the same within a reasonable time. At the hearing,
any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney. Before an appeal is
filed with the Board of Adjustment, the appellant shall pay a fee in an amount
established from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
5.   Other Powers of the Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment is hereby
vested with the following additional authority and jurisdiction.
   A.   Interpretation of District Map. Where the application of the rules for
interpretation of district boundaries leaves a reasonable doubt to the boundary
between two zoning districts, the Board of Adjustment, after notice to the
owners of the properties and after public hearing, shall interpret the Map in
such a way as to carry out the intent and purposes of this chapter.
   B.   Temporary Uses and Permits. The Board of Adjustment may issue a permit
for the temporary use of a building or premises in any district for a purpose
or use that does not conform to the regulations prescribed by this chapter,
provided that such use is of a true temporary nature and does not involve the
erection of substantial or permanent buildings. Issues such as parking areas,
traffic routing, tents, temporary electrical services, portable restroom
facilities, shall be addressed on a site plan if required by the Board. Such
permit shall be granted in the form of a temporary and revocable permit for not
more than a 12-month period, subject to such conditions as will safeguard the
public health, safety, convenience, and general welfare. Before an application
for a temporary use permit is filed with the Board, the applicant shall pay a
fee in an amount established from time to time by resolution of the City
Council.
165.21   BUILDING PERMITS.
No Building or structure shall hereafter be erected, altered, or extended until
a building permit shall have been issued by the Building Inspector in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Section
165.21 of this chapter shall be enforced by the Building Inspector.
1.   Application. All building permits shall be applied for in writing,
accompanied by plans and specifications sufficient to determine compliance with
applicable ordinances of the City. Permit application shall be filed with the
Zoning Administrator and shall be accompanied by a check payable to the City or
a cash payment in accordance with the fee schedule adopted from time to time by
resolution of City Council. The City Clerk shall promptly refer all
applications to the Building Inspector.
2.   Issuance. Upon approval by the Building Inspector, the City shall issue
permits, as set forth in this chapter, to persons authorized by the City to
perform the work specified in said permit. No building permit shall be approved
by the Building Inspector unless the permit application is in compliance with
all applicable City Codes.
3.   In the cases of construction, reconstruction, alteration, or placement
involving the pouring of concrete, the permit holder may proceed only with
excavation and placement of forms, upon completion of which the Building
Inspector shall promptly be notified by the applicant or contractor. The
Building Inspector shall then conduct a second inspection to again determine
conformity with the plans and compliance with applicable City Codes. Additional
inspections may be required by the Building Code of the City.
4.   Stop Work Order. If at any time the Building Inspector determines that a
project does not comply with the approved building permit or applicable City
Codes, said official shall revoke the permit and require that the work be
stopped. If the Building Inspector denies or revokes a permit, said official
shall notify the owner or the contractor as soon as practicable by written
notice of the action, stating the reasons therefor.
5.   Expiration. Every permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall
expire by limitation and become null and void if substantial construction work
authorized by such permit is not commenced within 180 days from the date of
issuance of such permit, or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended
or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced for a period of 120 days.
The determination regarding the constitution of substantial construction work
and suspended or abandoned work shall be at the discretion of the Building
Inspector. If a building permit expires, no refund of fees shall be made to the
applicant.
6.   Failure to Obtain a Permit. Except in emergency situations, as determined
by the Building Inspector, where a permit is required by this chapter and work
is commenced by any person prior to obtaining the required permit, a fine may
be imposed in an amount established by resolution of City Council. The payment
of such fine shall not relieve any person from fully complying with the
requirements in the execution of the work or from being subject to any other
penalties prescribed herein. However, no fine shall be imposed upon any person
who starts work without a permit if said work is started on a Saturday, Sunday,
or holiday provided such person secures the proper permit on the next working
day.
7.   Exceptions to Building Permit Requirements. No building permit or
certificate of occupancy and compliance shall be required for any of the
following:
   A.   Re-roofing an existing roof.
   B.   Siding.
   C.   Sidewalks or other walkways.
   D.   Ordinary steps leading to a door.
   E.   Patio floors flush to the ground.
   F.   Window and door awnings on residential buildings.
   G.   Television antennae, mounted directly to a building, extending no more
than 12 feet above the top of the roof.
   H.   Lawn ornaments under six feet high.
   I.   Trees, hedges, bushes, and other plants.
   J.   Fences on or immediately adjacent to agricultural land.
   K.   Garden fences.
   L.   Public utility poles, cables, and pipelines.
   M.   Swing sets.
   N.   Any construction, reconstruction, alteration, or placement which does
not change the exterior dimensions of the building or structure and which takes
place within the present existing outer walls of the building or structure, in
any district other than commercial zoning districts or industrial zoning
districts.
165.22   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY AND COMPLIANCE.
Section
165.22 of this chapter shall be enforced by the Building Inspector.
1.   Issuance of certificates of occupancy and compliance by the Building
Inspector shall authorize the applicant to use and occupy the land, building,
or structure in question in the manner and for the purposes stated in the
application. The application must describe the intended use, occupancy, or
change of use with sufficient detail to allow the Building Inspector to
determine compliance with all applicable City Codes. If the Building Inspector
determines that a proposed use, occupancy or change of use does not comply, the
Building Inspector shall deny the application.
2.   The Building Inspector may make such additional inspections as he or she
deems necessary to assure compliance with City Code. If at any time the
Building Inspector determines that a use or occupancy does not so comply, he or
she shall revoke the aforementioned certificate and require that the
nonconforming use cease.
3.   If the Building Inspector denies or revokes a certificate of occupancy and
compliance, he or she shall notify the owner or party in possession of the
property as soon as practicable by written notice of the action, stating the
reasons therefor.
4.   Fees. Prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy and compliance,
the applicant shall pay to the City Treasurer an appropriate sum as established
from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
5.   In instances where a building permit is required for the same premises,
then certificates of occupancy and compliance shall be applied for
coincidentally with the application for a building permit. Fees for a
certificate of occupancy shall be considered incidental to the building permit
fees.
6.   A record of all certificates shall be kept on file in the office of the
City Clerk and copies shall be furnished on request to any person having a
proprietary or tenancy interest in the building affected.
165.23   AMENDMENTS INCLUDING REZONING.
1.   The City Council may, from time to time, on its own action or on petition
after report by the Commission, amend, supplement, or change the boundaries or
regulations herein or subsequently established. However, no such amendment,
supplement, restriction, change of boundaries, or regulations shall become
effective until after a public hearing in relation thereto, at which parties in
interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. The notice of the
time and place of the hearing shall be published as provided in the Code of
Iowa, except that at least seven days notice must be given and in no case shall
the public hearing be held earlier than the next regularly scheduled Council
meeting following the published notice. The notice shall be published in a
paper of general circulation in the City. Such amendment, supplement, or change
shall not become effective except by a favorable vote of a majority of all of
the members of the Council following the public hearing.
2.   Whenever any person desires that any amendment, supplement, or change be
made in this Zoning Code, including the text or map, as to any property in the
City, and there shall be presented to the Planning and Zoning Commission a
petition requesting such change or amendment and clearly describing the
property and its boundaries as to which the change or amendment is desired,
duly signed by the owners of 50 percent of the area of all real estate included
within the boundaries of said tract as described in said petition, and in
addition, duly signed by the owners of 50 percent of the area of all real
estate lying outside of said tract but within 250 feet of the boundaries
thereof. The petition shall be submitted to the City Clerk 30 days in advance
of the date on which action is to be taken by said Commission regarding its
recommendation thereon. This action shall not act as a stay upon the proposed
action by the Council where said Commission fails to submit its recommendation
to the Council within 30 days after the City Clerk receives said petition.
3.   In case the proposed amendment, supplement, or change is disapproved by
the Zoning Commission, including the text or map, or a protest is presented
duly signed by the owners of 20 percent or more either of the area of the lots
included in such proposed change or of those immediately adjacent to the rear
thereof, extending the depth of one lot or not to exceed 200 feet from the
street frontage of such opposite lots, such amendments shall not become
effective except by the favorable vote of at least four-fifths of all members
of the Council.
4.   Whenever any petition for an amendment, supplement, or change of the
zoning regulations herein contained or subsequently established shall have been
denied by the Council, then no new petition, including the text or map,
covering the same property and additional property shall be filed with or
considered by the Council until one year shall have elapsed from the date of
the filing of the first petition. Provided, however, the Council may, in its
discretion, by resolution, authorize the filing of a new petition within one
year, upon its showing that an enforcement of this provision would impose an
undue hardship upon the owner of such real estate.
5.   Fees. Before any action shall be taken as provided in this section, the
owner of the property proposed or recommended to be changed in the district
regulations or district boundaries shall pay to the Clerk a filing fee in an
amount established from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
165.24   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
There is hereby created the position of Zoning Administrator who shall be the
City Administrator unless a different City employee or designee is so appointed
by the Mayor, subject to Council approval. The Zoning Administrator shall
exercise the following powers and duties:
1.   The Zoning Administrator shall have all enforcement powers, including but
not limited to the investigation of complaints of zoning violations, issuance
of notices to violators, and the preparation and submission to the City Council
reports of said violations which continue unabated after exhaustion of
reasonable administrative remedies toward their abatement.
2.   The Zoning Administrator shall attend the meetings of the Planning and
Zoning Commission and the Board of Adjustment as requested by those bodies,
shall investigate and review all cases presented to the Board of Adjustment,
and shall advise that body on those cases upon request.
3.   In the event the City Council, after analysis of the report, institutes
legal proceedings, the Zoning Administrator will cooperate fully with the City
Attorney in the perfecting of such proceedings.
165.25   VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to comply with
or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be in violation of this Code of Ordinances. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist constitutes a separate offense.
165.26   ENFORCEMENT.
In case any building, structure or sign is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted, or maintained; or any building, structure, sign,
or land is used in violation of this chapter, the City Council, in addition to
other remedies, may institute any proper action or proceedings in the name of
the City to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance, or use; to restrain, correct or
abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy of said building, structure, or
land, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about said
premises.
165.27   SPECIAL EVENTS.
The City recognizes that in certain instances, some flexibility to allow
special events out of the confines of a building can be beneficial to business
interests, as well as to consumers and the City, provided such events continue
to promote public health, safety, and general welfare. A temporary site plan
may be required by the Zoning Administrator to show that the event will not
impact the neighboring properties due to noise, congestion, fire and emergency
access, parking, restroom availability, lighting, or additional factors.
Special events shall not involve the sale of dispensing of alcoholic beverages
without prior approval from the Council. The Zoning Administrator may impose
restrictions on special events that are in the public interest. The following
special event applications shall require a fee in an amount determined by
resolution of the City Council from time to time.
1.   Outdoor sales events, including but not limited to sidewalk sales, shall
be permitted for two events per year for a maximum duration of seven days per
event, subject to approval of the Zoning Administrator.
2.   Seasonal sales events shall be permitted for two events per year for a
maximum duration of 45 days per event subject to approval by the Zoning
Administrator. Seasonal sales events are those events that, due to the nature
of the product being sold or the time of year that such product is for sale,
are best accomplished out of doors.
3.   Farmer's markets, carnivals, fairs, and similar large-scale events shall
require Board of Adjustment approval of a temporary use permit in accordance
with Section
165.20, Subsection 5.
 
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances have been adopted amending the Official Zoning Map
described in Section
165.05 of this chapter and have not been included as a part of this Code of
Ordinances but have been specifically saved from repeal and are in full
force and effect.
ORDINANCE ADOPTED          ORDINANCE ADOPTED
2022-01O  January 24, 2022
 
CHAPTER 170
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
170.01 Title and Purpose              170.09 Construction of Improvements
170.02 Jurisdictions and Applications 170.10 Neighborhood Sketch Plan
                                      Requirements
170.03 Definitions                    170.11 Plat of Subdivision Requirements
170.04 Classifications of Land        170.12 Plat of Survey or Acquisition
Divisions                             Plat Requirements
170.05 Review and Approval Procedure  170.13 Fees
170.06 Park and Open Space Dedication 170.14 Variations and Exceptions
170.07 Required Improvements          170.15 Validity and Expiration
170.08 Design Standards               170.16 Violations and Enforcement
 
170.01   TITLE AND PURPOSE.
1.   This chapter shall hereafter be known as the “Subdivision Code” or
“Subdivision Regulations” and may be cited as such, and may be referred to
herein as “chapter” or “Code”. The City has adopted this Code in accordance
with the provisions of Chapter 18B and Chapter 354 of the Code of Iowa and
amendatory acts thereto.
2.   The purpose and intent of this Code is to establish minimum standards for
the division of land and for the design and construction of all subdivision
improvements within the jurisdiction of the City to provide for:
   A.   A balance between the land use rights of individual landowners and the
economic, social, and environmental concerns of the public while enforcing land
use and subdivision regulations; and
   B.   Accurate, clear, and concise legal descriptions of real estate
consistent with zoning and land use regulations and to prevent, wherever
possible, land boundary disputes or real estate title problems; and
   C.   Regulation of the design and construction of public improvements and
extensions thereto in a manner consistent with the Comprehensive Plan, Zoning
Ordinance, and other plans as may be adopted by the City Council; and
   D.   Provide adequate land and infrastructure for building sites,
transportation, parks, recreational trails, drainage ways, open space, and
public facilities for orderly community development and adequate capacity for
streets and utilities serving developable land within the jurisdiction of the
City.
170.02   JURISDICTION AND APPLICATION.
1.   This chapter governs the division, subdivision, and platting of all lands
within the corporate limits of the City and the unincorporated extra-
territorial jurisdiction as defined herein.
2.   It is the specific intent and purpose of this provision to extend all
applicable regulations concerning the division, subdivision, and platting of
land as set forth in this chapter to all land within the City’s extra-
territorial jurisdiction and to establish the City’s jurisdiction for review
and approval of all plats of subdivision, minor plats of subdivision, auditor’s
plats, acquisition plats, and plats of survey in accordance with the provisions
of Section 354.9 of the Code of Iowa and as may be established by mutual
agreement with the County or neighboring cities pursuant to Chapter 28E of the
Code of Iowa in order to set forth reasonable standards and conditions for
review of subdivisions within areas of overlapping jurisdiction.
3.   No plat of survey, plat of subdivision, minor plat of subdivision,
acquisition plat, auditor’s plat, or other division of land within the City, or
within the City’s extra-territorial jurisdiction, shall be recorded or filed
with the County Auditor, County Recorder or County Assessor, nor shall any plat
or subdivision have any validity until it has been approved in the manner
prescribed herein. If it is determined that a proposed division of land is
outside the City’s planning area for annexation or extension of municipal
services, the City’s review authority may be waived by resolution of City
Council.
4.   No improvements or development shall be commenced within any proposed
subdivision until all provisions set forth in this Code have been satisfied in
full; including but not limited to approval of a preliminary plat and
construction drawings; and all approvals required by this Code have been
obtained and remain valid.
5.   No building permits shall be applied for on any lot or tract until all
provisions set forth or issued in this Code have been satisfied in full and all
approvals required by this Code have been obtained and remain valid.
6.   No public funds shall be expended or municipal services provided within
any proposed subdivision until all provisions set forth in this Code have been
satisfied in full; including, but not limited to, approval of a preliminary
plat and construction drawings; and all approvals required by this Code have
been obtained and remain valid.
7.   Implementation for Plats of Subdivision. The subdivision regulations
defined herein shall be effective upon publication, following final adoption by
City Council. Any preliminary plat submitted to the City Clerk prior to said
date shall be permitted to comply with the subdivision regulations in effect
prior to said effective date for all phases of development; provided the
preliminary plat remains valid in accordance with Section
170.15 of this Code of Ordinances and provided the required public improvements
for the initial phase of development have been accepted by City Council and the
final plat approved by City Council prior to January 1, 2022. On January 1,
2023, all plats of subdivision shall comply with the subdivision regulations
defined herein for all remaining phases of the plat, even if the preliminary
plat was approved under the subdivision regulations previously in effect,
unless otherwise approved by City Council.
8.   Implementation for Plats of Survey, Acquisition Plats, Auditor’s Plats,
and Condominiums. The subdivision regulations defined herein shall become
effective upon publication, following final adoption by City Council. Any plat
of survey, acquisition plat, auditor’s plat, or condominium subdivision
submitted to the City Clerk prior to said date shall be permitted to comply
with the subdivision regulations in effect prior to said effective date.
170.03   DEFINITIONS.
1.   “Access” means the location, pace, means, or way by which vehicles or
pedestrians have ingress and egress to a property, roadway, parking or loading
area, sidewalk, or recreational trail.
2.   “Aliquot part” means a fractional part of a section within the United
States public land survey system; only the fractional parts one-half, one-
quarter, one half of one-quarter, or one-quarter of one-quarter shall be
considered an aliquot part of a section.
3.   “Alley” means a minor way other than a street that is intended to provide
a secondary means of vehicular access to more than one abutting property and
that is open to common use.
4.   “Building” means a structure that is designed, used or intended to be used
for the protection, shelter, enclosure, or support of persons, animals, or
property.
5.   “Building envelope” means the contiguous area of a lot of sufficient shape
to accommodate a principal building, exclusive of setbacks, easements, flood
hazard areas, required open space, required buffers, or areas set aside for on-
site wells or sewage disposal areas.
6.   “City Engineer” means the City Engineer of the City, or a consulting civil
engineering firm designated to fulfill or assist the function of the City
Engineer.
7.   “Code of Iowa” means the State Code of Iowa and amendatory
8.   “Commission” means the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City.
9.   “Comprehensive Plan” means the City’s long-range plan for land use and
development, as may be formally adopted and amended from time to time by the
City Council.
10.   “Cul-de-sac” means a street having one end open to traffic and the other
end permanently terminated and provided with a turn-around for vehicles.
11.   “Developer” means any person, individual, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, estate, trust or other entity that proposes or acts to grade,
improve, or otherwise prepare a parcel of land of possible use for any purpose
other than agricultural uses that are exempted from local regulation by the
Code of Iowa or to create a subdivision.
12.   “Development” means the act or result of improving a parcel of land for
possible use as a building site, or for the use of the land itself, for any
purpose except an agricultural use that is exempted from local regulation by
the Code of Iowa and public projects that are subject to approval by the City
Council or State under the requirements of other codes or regulations.
Development includes, but is not limited to, any form of construction,
renovation, redevelopment, or expansions of buildings or other structures;
paving, water mains, storm sewers, sanitary sewers, or other improvements to
the site; and clearing and other removal of vegetation, grubbing, contouring of
land and other grading activities for any land use except an active
agricultural use that is exempted from local regulation by the Code of Iowa.
13.   “Development application” means a request from a developer or proprietor
for City approval of the subdivision of land by means of plat of subdivision,
final plat; minor plat of subdivision, plat of survey, or acquisition plat,
including submittal of all related documentation required by this chapter
including but not limited to neighborhood sketch plans, preliminary plats,
construction drawings, record drawings, and final plats.
14.   “Development Review Committee” or “Committee” means a committee or staff
members, or designees thereof, established by the City Administrator for the
purpose of reviewing development applications to include the City Engineer and
Public Works Director and may include the Fire Chief, Police Chief, and others
deemed appropriate by the City Administrator; members of the committee may vary
as determined by the City Administrator based on the scope of the proposed
project.
15.   “Easement” means a grant of a right to use a defined portion of a
property for a specified purpose or purposes.
16.   “Elevation” means the height of an object above sea level.
   A.   “Elevation, Minimum Floor” or “MFE” means the lowest elevation of the
enclosed area of a building, including but not limited to a basement or crawl
space and specifically with respect to the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   B.   “Elevation, Minimum Opening” or “MOE” means the lowest opening into an
enclosed area of a building as measured to the rough opening for a door,
window, opening for mechanical equipment or ventilation, or other opening into
said lowest area, and irrespective of any grade, structure or shutter fastened
to or placed around the door or window or whether the door, window, or other
opening is operable or inoperable, but not including footing drains or sewers
serving the building.
17.   “Extra-territorial jurisdiction” means the unincorporated area of Grundy
County within a two-mile radius of the corporate limits of the City.
18.   “Frontage road” means a street that is generally parallel to and separate
from a major limited-access thoroughfare or highway, the primary purpose of
which is to provide access to adjoining properties.
19.   “Functional classification” means the classification of a street or
roadway at the sole discretion of the City Engineer as an arterial street,
collector street, or local street.
20.   “Horizontal property regime” means a subdivision that is created by
declaration as provided by and in accordance with Chapter 499B of the Code of
Iowa and including cooperative housing that is declared as provided by and in
accordance with Chapter 499B of the Code of Iowa, usually but not necessarily
for individual use, lease or to transfer ownership, whether immediate or
future, and regardless of whether the division is by deed, description, devise,
lease, map, plat, plan, other recorded instrument, previous division or
subdivision, or condominium or cooperative creation or conversion.
21.   “Improvement” or “subdivision improvement” means any one or more of the
following that is required by this chapter or by a development, the need for
which is generated by a development project: clearing and other removal of
vegetation; grubbing; contouring of land and other grading activities; streets
and roadways; recreational trails, and sidewalks; signage for traffic control
or other governmental purposes; traffic-control devises on roadways, trails, or
paths; street, sidewalk, path, or trail lighting; water mains and
appurtenances; sanitary sewers; storm sewers and other drainage improvements;
erosion control including channel stabilization and sediment control; utility
lines and appurtenances; landscaping, berms, fences, retaining walls and other
buffers; parks, recreation, and open space facilities and playgrounds; grading;
and other improvements, whether on or off-site; as permitted by the Code of
Iowa to mitigate impacts created by development.
22.   “Lot” means a parcel of land that, exclusive of any outlot parcels, is of
sufficient size and dimensions to comply with all requirements of the Zoning
Ordinance and all other requirements and specifications for its intended use,
whether or not its boundaries have been established by a plat of subdivision or
plat of survey, and that has been fully improved in accordance with the
subdivision improvement requirements of this Code.
23.   “Maintenance bond” means surety or other security instrument that is in a
form that is acceptable to the City and that is in such amount, duration and
terms as to ensure that any and all subdivision improvements named in such
surety will remain free from defects or failure of any sort, and in
satisfactory and good repair for the duration of the periods of time specified
by this Code.
24.   “Metes and bounds description” means a description of the boundaries of a
parcel of land by use of distances and angles; distances and bearings;
references to physical features of the land; or a combination thereof.
25.   “Outlot” means a parcel of land that is not sufficient of size,
dimensions, or physical character to comply with all requirements of the Zoning
Code or all other Code requirements and specifications, or that has not been
fully improved in accordance with the subdivision improvement requirements of
this Code.
26.   “Plat” means a map that delineates the locations, boundaries, geometry,
dimensions, bearings, and other necessary information for lots, parcels, sites,
units, condominiums, tracts, or other real property interests that are to be
created by a subdivision, or of existing parcels within an Auditor’s plat.
27.   “Plat of subdivision” means a subdivision proposed by a developer who
owns the real property being subdivided or is acting with the consent and on
behalf of the owner.
28.   “Plat of survey” means a graphical representation of a survey of one or
more parcels of land, together with a complete and accurate description of each
parcel, that is prepared by a licensed professional public land surveyor.
29.   “Plat, acquisition” means a plat that is prepared for or as the result of
a conveyance or condemnation of a parcel of land or other corporal real
property by the City; other governmental entity; or other persons having the
power of eminent domain.
30.   “Plat, auditor’s” means a plat that is prepared by order of a County
Auditor or Assessor to clarify boundaries and descriptions of existing real
property interests for the purposes of assessment and taxation, and that does
not create any new parcels of land or other divisions of real property, except
for conveyance to the City or other public jurisdiction.
31.   “Plat, final” means a complete and exact plat prepared in accordance with
the accuracy required by the Code of Iowa and this Code for a subdivision, for
the purpose of obtaining City approval of the proposed subdivision and
subsequently recording it as an official plat.
32.   “Plat, minor” means a plat of subdivision that does not create or
necessitate the creation of a new street and that does not contain more than 10
lots or other parcels, excluding parcels being dedicated to the City or other
governmental entity.
33.   “Plat, major” means any plat of subdivision that is not a minor plat.
34.   “Plat, official” means a plat of subdivision or Auditor’s plat that
complies with this Code and the Code of Iowa and that has been filed and made
of legal record in the offices of the appropriate County Recorder, Auditor, and
Assessor.
35.   “Plat, preliminary” means a plat that delineates a developer proposed
designs for a proposed subdivision and development improvements that are
required for or related to the subdivision, including lot layout and supporting
infrastructure.
36.   “Recreational trail” means public pathways restricted to pedestrians and
non-motorized vehicles for the purpose of separating automobile traffic from
pedestrian and non-motorized vehicles and providing connectivity for other
public land uses.
37.   “Replat” or “re-subdivision” means a plat consisting in whole or in part
of land that has previously been included in a plat of record.
38.   “Right-of-way” means property that is set aside for a public purpose or
common use by more than one property or person if held in private ownership,
that has an express or implied property interest such as by fee title or
easement and that is separate and distinct form adjoining lots or parcels.
39.   “Roadway” means the improved portion of a street right-of-way that is
designed, intended, and improved for use by vehicular traffic and where curbs
are laid, the pavement between a set of curbs.
40.   “Setback” means the horizontal distance between a property line and the
nearest point of a structure, as measured along a straight line that is
perpendicular or radial to the property line at the point of measurement, in
accordance with the Zoning Code excluding any encroachments permitted by said
Zoning Code.
41.   “Street” means a roadway together with right-of-way that is the principal
means of vehicular access to abutting properties or that is a corridor for
vehicular travel and circulation, whether improved or unimproved and whether
designated as a highway, street, avenue, road, drive, place, court, way, lane,
or other vehicular way.
   A.   “Street, arterial” means a street that is designed to connect major
centers of activity within and beyond the City’s boundaries by performing as a
part of an interconnected system of major streets and highways, and accordingly
to carry the highest volumes of traffic and the longest trips, including major
and minor arterial streets.
   B.   “Street, collector” means a street that is designed to provide direct
vehicular access to abutting properties and to collect traffic from local
streets and to convey such traffic to the arterial street system.
   C.   “Street, local” means a street that is designed to primarily provide
direct vehicular access to abutting properties.
   D.   “Street, parkway” means a street that is designed with amenities to
enhance the pedestrian experience including elements such as street trees,
trails, benches, landscaping, lighting, and wayfinding signage within public
right-of-way or easement.
   E.   “Street, right-of-way width” means the distance between the boundary
lines of a street as measured at a right angle or along a line that is a normal
line to the centerline of the street at the point of measurement.
42.   “Structure” means anything constructed or a combination of materials that
form a construction for use, occupancy or ornamentation, whether installed on,
above, or below the surface of land or water.
43.   “Subdivision” means the act or result of dividing a single interest in a
parcel of land or other corporal real property into two or more lots, parcels,
sites, units, condominiums, tracts, or interests usually but not necessarily
for individual use, lease, or to transfer ownership, whether immediate or
future, and regardless of whether the division is by deed, metes and bounds
description, devise, lease, map, plat, declaration for the establishment of a
horizontal property regime under Chapter 499B of the Code of Iowa, other
recorded instrument, previous division or subdivision, or condominium or
cooperative creation or conversion, except for the minimum division necessary
under intestacy or a testator’s division of real property amongst heirs;
partners’ division of firm real property amongst themselves upon dissolution by
reason of insolvency; and other cases of similar nature. For purposes of this
chapter, division of an aliquot part for agricultural purposes only shall not
be considered as subdivision.
44.   “SUDAS” means the Statewide Urban Design and Specifications program,
including the design manual and standard specifications, maintained by the
Institute for Transportation at Iowa State University.
45.   “Surety” means a security instrument including, but not limited to, a
bond, letter of credit, escrow deposit, or other financial guarantee, that the
City finds acceptable in form and amount to ensure that all public and
nonpublic improvements will be satisfactorily completed in full compliance with
plans and specifications that are approved by the City, whether such
improvements are required by this Code or as a condition of approval of a
subdivision or other development.
46.   “Surveyor” means a professional land surveyor who is licensed in the
State and who engages in the practice of land surveying pursuant to Chapter
542B of the Code of Iowa.
47.   “Tract” means an aliquot part of a section, a lot within any official
plat, or a government lot.
48.   “Utility fixture” means any structure or appurtenance associated with a
utility system including but not limited to water valves, fire hydrants, curb
stops, manholes, intakes, flared end section, clean-outs, handhole, pole, or
pedestal.
49.   “Zoning Ordinance” or “Zoning Code” means the zoning regulations of the
City and amendments thereto as codified in
Chapter 165 of the municipal code.
170.04   CLASSIFICATION OF LAND DIVISIONS.
1.   Plat of Subdivision.
   A.   A plat of subdivision shall be required for any division of land that
proposes either of the following actions or outcomes, regardless of whether it
is a major plat, minor plat, or a replat:
      (1)   To divide a single interest in a parcel of land or other corporal
real property into two or more interests, including declarations and
establishments of horizontal property regimes and cooperative housing. For the
purpose of making such determination, a conveyance of one or more parcels to
the City or other public entity for use as right-of-way shall not be counted as
one of said three interests; or
      (2)   To create a new street, whether by choice or by necessity in order
to comply with minimum frontage or other code requirements, and regardless of
whether the street is to be dedicated for public ownership and maintenance or
held in common private ownership and use.
   B.   Minor Plat of Subdivision. A subdivision that divides a single parcel
of land or other interest in corporal real property into not more than four
parcels or interest that each front onto an existing, paved public street may
be classified as a minor subdivision. The City Engineer shall have the
authority to classify a subdivision as a minor subdivision provided said
subdivision:
      (1)   Does not require any new public streets for access to any lot or
parcel;
      (2)   Does not require extension of public sanitary sewer, storm sewer,
or water mains; and
      (3)   Does not require grading or drainage improvements, including
detention, to control runoff that may adversely affect downstream properties;
and
      (4)   Does not adversely affect the future development or platting of the
remainder of the property or adjoining property; and
      (5)   Is not in conflict with provisions of this Code, the Zoning
Ordinance, or Comprehensive Plan.
   C.   Preliminary plats and final plats for minor plats of subdivision,
horizontal property regimes, and cooperatives may be filed for concurrent
review and approval.
2.   Plat of Survey. A subdivision that divides a single parcel of land or
other interest in corporal real property into not more than two parcels or
interests; a plat that combines several parcels into a single parcel to clarify
or simplify its legal description; or a plat that clarifies the boundaries of
one or more parcels of land that have metes and bounds descriptions and that
does not create any subdivision, may be done by plat of survey if approved by
the City Engineer. Consecutive plats of survey on a single tract of land shall
not be used to circumvent the requirement for a plat of subdivision.
3.   Acquisition Plat. An acquisition plat may be completed in the same manner
as a plat of survey, regardless of the number or new parcels of land or other
corporal real property that are created by the subdivision, if all of the new
parcels or interests will be held in public ownership by the City or other
governmental entity, or by other persons having the power of eminent domain for
the purpose of acquiring such corporal real property.
4.   Auditor’s Plat. An auditor’s plat shall comply with all of the submittals
and procedures that are required for a plat of subdivision.
5.   Condominiums. The establishment of a condominium, including the conversion
of existing buildings or construction of new buildings, with the intent to
establish a horizontal property regime with interest in real property shared by
co-owners shall comply with the requirements, conditions, and restrictions of
Chapter 499B of the Code of Iowa and all applicable building codes, fire codes,
zoning regulations, and subdivision regulations. All required documents
including declaration of horizontal regime, articles of incorporation, bylaws,
and rules and regulations shall be provided to the City Administrator for
review by Development Review Committee, and approval by City Council prior to
recordation.
170.05   REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURE.
1.   Pre-Application Conference. Whenever a developer proposes a plat of
subdivision, the developer shall contact the City Administrator to schedule a
pre-application conference. The pre-application conference shall include the
developer and representatives, representatives from the department of community
development and the engineering department, and such other City departments
that express a desire to be included in such pre-application conferences on a
regular basis, or that are deemed helpful or necessary by the City
Administrator. The purpose of the pre-application conference shall be to
acquaint the City staff with the proposed subdivision, and to acquaint the
developer with the procedures and requirements of this code along with issues
and regulations that pertain to the subdivision. The developer shall furnish a
reasonably specific description of the property to be subdivided at the time of
requesting the pre-application conference and is encouraged to prepare and
submit a conceptual layout plan for the proposed subdivision prior to the
conference in order to facilitate the pre-application conference.
2.   Neighborhood Sketch Plan. If the City Engineer determines there is no
existing master plan or neighborhood sketch plan or other plan that fulfills
the intent of this section by adequately demonstrating how a proposed land
development will be compatible with the development of adjoining lands, the
developer shall submit a neighborhood sketch plan to the City Clerk prior to or
in conjunction with the development application for a preliminary plat.
Requirements for a neighborhood sketch plan shall be as set forth in Section
170.10 of this chapter. The procedure for review and approval of a neighborhood
sketch plan shall be the same as for a preliminary plat specified in Subsection
3(A).
3.   Plat of Subdivision
   A.   Preliminary Plat. Following one or more pre-application conferences as
determined to be necessary by the City Engineer or as requested by the
developer, a preliminary plat of subdivision (“preliminary plat”) shall be
prepared by the developer and submitted to the City Clerk in accordance with
this chapter. Preliminary plats shall be reviewed and presented to the Planning
and Zoning Commission in general accordance with the submittal and meeting
schedule further defined in Section
170.05, Subsection 9, of this chapter.
      (1)   The City Engineer shall review the preliminary plat and the City
Clerk shall promptly convey one copy of it to each member of the Development
Review Committee for their review and recommendations. The Committee shall
review the preliminary plat for conformance to all of the City codes,
ordinances and specifications that they customarily enforce, and for
conformance to applicable professional standards. Upon completion of their
reviews, each member of the Committee shall forward their recommendations for
action on the preliminary plat to the City Engineer for inclusion in a
consolidated, written staff report and recommendation that is to be prepared by
the City Engineer. The Committee may recommend that the plat be approved,
approved subject to conditions and revisions, or that the preliminary plat
application be denied for reasons that shall be set forth in the written
Committee recommendation.
      (2)   The City Engineer shall provide a copy of the written staff report
and the consolidated recommendations from the Development Review Committee to
the developer prior to providing the report and recommendations to the Planning
and Zoning Commission to afford the developer the opportunity to make any
revisions deemed necessary or appropriate prior to the preliminary plat being
provided to the Commission. After consulting with the developer and City
Engineer, the City Clerk shall forward the development application along with
the Committee report and recommendations, each as revised if applicable, to the
Commission.
      (3)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review the development
application and the recommendations of the Development Review Committee and act
on the proposed preliminary plat in a timely manner and may recommend to the
City Council that it approve, approve subject to conditions or revisions, or
deny the preliminary plat application, whether or not such recommendations are
in accordance with the recommendations of the Development Review Committee. If
the Commission does not act on the preliminary plat in a timely manner, the
developer may request the City Council to consider the preliminary plat and
recommendations of the Development Review Committee without the provision of
any recommendations by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (4)   The Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council may, at their
discretion, hold public hearings on a preliminary plat and may provide notice
to nearby property owners or tenants in whatever manner or amount of time that
the Commission or Council deems appropriate.
      (5)   Once a preliminary plat has been reviewed and acted on by the
Planning and Zoning Commission, the City Administrator shall forward the
Commission’s recommendations and the Development Review Committee report and
recommendations to the City Council for consideration at its next available
meeting, subject to any notifications that may be directed by the Commission or
Council and revisions to the preliminary plat to satisfy all recommended
revisions and conditions, provided the City Council desires to have all such
revisions completed to the Development Review Committee’s satisfaction prior to
the Council’s consideration of the preliminary plat. The City Council may adopt
the recommendations of the Development Review Committee; recommendations of the
Commission if at variance with the Committee on one or more points; or act
freely of their own volition, provided that, the Council shall have no
authority to waive any requirements of the Zoning Code, or of any other City
Code unless provisions are expressly set out in the pertinent code to grant the
Council the powers to waive or make exceptions to or from such Code.
      (6)   Upon approval by the City Council and filing of a revised
preliminary plat that satisfies all conditions of approval, the City Clerk
shall retain a copy of the approved preliminary plat in the City files and
provide a copy to members of the Development Review Committee and to the
developer if requested.
   B.   Construction Drawings. Following approval of the preliminary plat and
during such time that the plat remains valid, the developer shall cause
detailed construction drawings of and specifications for the subdivision
improvements to be prepared by a professional civil engineer who is licensed in
the State (herein “developer’s engineer”) and submitted for review and approval
by the City Engineer.
      (1)   The developer’s engineer shall incorporate all of the subdivision
improvements that are required by this code and other applicable regulations,
and any that may be required by the City Council as a condition of approval of
the subdivision, in the subdivision improvement plans and specifications and
shall certify said plans and specifications as being fully compliant with this
code and all other applicable regulations.
      (2)   Said plans and specifications may allow for phased construction,
provided such phasing was depicted on a valid preliminary plat. In order to
facilitate such phasing, the City Engineer may require certain improvements,
including but not limited to temporary turn-arounds and extension of utilities
to structures set beyond pavement limits, to ensure each phase remains each
fully compliant with this code and all other applicable regulations.
      (3)   Said plans and specifications shall be fully compliant with the
valid preliminary plat and the conceptual design of the improvements as
depicted therein. If the improvement plans and specifications deviate
substantially from the valid preliminary plat, the plans and specifications
shall be revised to conform, or the preliminary plat shall be revised and
resubmitted for review and approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission and
City Council, in full compliance with the requirements of this Code.
      (4)   Any improvement that is proposed to be constructed in accordance
with special provisions that are in variation with or from the City’s standard
specifications shall first be reviewed and approved by the City Engineer, or
their designated agent, as part of the full and complete set of subdivision
improvement plans and specifications, and the City Engineer may require any
such variation to be submitted for review and approval by the City Council in
accordance with Section
170.14 of this chapter.
      (5)   No improvement or development, or work preparatory thereto except
clearing, grubbing, and grading, shall be done prior to the City Engineer’s
finding that the subdivision improvement plans and specifications are complete
and in full compliance and have been properly certified by the developer’s
engineer, and are therefore approved; and that all required permits have been
issued by the City Engineer and all other applicable regulatory agencies.
Grading may be commenced at developer’s sole risk if the City Engineer concurs
with conceptual grading plans and stormwater management plans that have been
prepared by the developer’s engineer.
      (6)   The developer shall be responsible for applying for and obtaining
approval of all required permits from federal, State, and local governmental
agencies or jurisdictions prior to commencing construction of the subdivision
improvements.
      (7)   The developer’s engineer shall be solely responsible and liable for
ensuring that the subdivision improvement plans and specification are fully
compliant with the requirements of this Code and all other applicable
requirements and permits. The City Engineer’s approval of the subdivision
improvement plans and specifications, or concurrence with conceptual grading
plans, shall only be deemed to allow the developer to commence work on the
correlating subdivision improvements or grading, in accordance with the
approved plans and specifications and all requirements of this Code. The City
Engineer’s approval or concurrence shall not be found to assume, alleviate, or
relieve the developer or developer’s engineer from any liability or
responsibility for said plans or grading plans and the requirement to construct
the improvements in full compliance with this Code; to create any vested right
to proceed with any development or improvement that is not in full compliance
with this Code by reason of oversight, error or other reason; to waive any
requirement of this code unless this code expressly allows a waiver to be made
and any said waiver is made in writing; or to in any way create or assume any
liability by or for the City or any of its employees and agents.
   C.   Final Plat. Following the approval of a preliminary plat; approval of
the construction drawings and specifications for subdivision improvement plans
and specifications and acquisition of all required permits; and while the
preliminary plat remains valid, the developer shall cause a final subdivision
plat (“final plat”) to be prepared for all of the preliminary plat or for a
phase thereof as previously identified on the valid preliminary plat, and
submitted to the City Engineer in general accordance with the submittal and
meeting schedule further defined in Section
170.05, Subsection 9, of this chapter.
      (1)   The City Engineer shall review the final plat and the City Clerk
shall promptly convey one copy of it to each member of the Development Review
Committee for their review and recommendations. The Committee shall review the
final plat for conformance to the valid preliminary plat; conformance to the
approved construction drawings and specifications; for conformance to all of
the City codes, ordinances and specifications that they customarily enforce,
and for conformance to applicable professional standards. Upon completion of
their reviews, each member of the Committee shall forward their recommendations
for action on the final to the City Engineer for inclusion in a consolidated,
written staff report and recommendation that is to be prepared by the City
Engineer. The Committee may recommend that the final plat be approved, approved
subject to conditions and revisions, or that the final plat application be
denied for reasons that shall be set forth in the written Committee
recommendation.
      (2)   The City Engineer shall provide a copy of the written staff report
and the consolidated recommendations from the Development Review Committee to
the developer prior to providing the report and recommendations to the Planning
and Zoning Commission to afford the developer the opportunity to make any
revisions deemed necessary or appropriate prior to the final plat being
provided to the Commission. After consulting with the developer, the City
Engineer shall forward the development application along with the Committee
report and recommendations, each as revised if applicable, to the Commission.
      (3)   The Planning and Zoning commission shall review the development
application and the recommendations of the Development Review Committee and act
on the proposed final plat in a timely manner and may recommend to the City
Council that it approve, approve subject to conditions or revisions, or deny
the final plat application, whether or not such recommendations are in
accordance with the recommendations of the Development Review Committee. If the
Commission does not act on the final plat in a timely manner, the developer may
request the City Council to consider the final plat and recommendations of the
Development Review Committee without the provision of any recommendations by
the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (4)   Once a final plat has been reviewed and acted on by the Planning
and Zoning Commission, the City Engineer shall forward the Commission’s
recommendations and the Development Review Committee report and recommendations
to the City Council for consideration at its next available meeting, subject to
any notifications that may be directed by the Commission or Council and
revisions to the final plat to satisfy all recommended revisions and
conditions, provided the City Council desires to have all such revisions
completed to the Development Review Committee’s satisfaction prior to the
Council’s consideration of the final plat. The City Council may adopt the
recommendations of the Development Review Committee; recommendations of the
Commission if at variance with the Committee on one or more points; or act
freely of their own volition, provided that, the Council shall have no
authority to waive any requirements of the Zoning Code, or of any other City
Code unless provisions are expressly set out in the pertinent Code to grant the
Council the powers to waive or make exceptions to or from such Code.
      (5)   Upon approval by the City Council and filing of a revised final
plat that satisfy all conditions of approval, the City Engineer shall retain a
copy of the approved final plat in the City files and provide a copy to members
of the Development Review Committee and to the developer if requested.
   D.   Recording of Final Plat to Become an Official Plat.
      (1)   No final plat shall be submitted for filing of record in the
offices of the appropriate County Recorder, Auditor, and Assessor; officially
recognized by the City; improvements within a subdivision shall not be accepted
for public ownership and maintenance; building permits shall not be applied
for; and public funds shall not be expended or services provided within a
subdivision, until all provisions set forth in this Code have been satisfied in
full and all approvals required by this Code have been obtained and remain
valid.
      (2)   No final plat shall be released for filing of record unless and
until:
         a.   The required subdivision improvements shall be satisfactorily
completed to the full satisfaction of the City Engineer, all record drawings
have been provided in accordance with Section
170.11 Subsection 3, and all maintenance bonds shall be posted therefore in
accordance with Section
170.09 Subsection 6, and performance surety shall be posted for any subdivision
improvements that are incomplete and not ready for in accordance with 170.09
Subsection 5;
         b.   All fees and charges due to the City for review of all
development applications, construction observation of the subdivision
improvements; connection fees and other impact fees; assessments for streets
and other improvements; reimbursements for water mains; and any other costs and
financial obligations have been paid in full;
         c.   The developer has paid for the installation of streetlights;
         d.   The developer has reimbursed the City for all street name signs,
traffic-control signs, and pavement markings;
         e.   Deeds and easements have been submitted to, and reviewed and
approved by, the City Engineer, in consultation with the City Attorney, in
accordance with this Code for all streets, parkland, recreational trails,
public utilities, and subdivision improvements that are to be dedicated to the
City or owners’ association, as the case may be;
         f.   All attachments to subdivision plats as required by Chapter
354.11 of the Code of Iowa or contents of declaration as required by Chapter
499b.4 of the Code of Iowa as the case may be, development agreements,
covenants, and declarations establishing an owners’ association, and any other
attachments, declarations, certifications, or other documents that may be
required as a matter of the filing of a plat whether by the Code or the City,
have been submitted to, and reviewed and approved by, the City Attorney in
consultation with the City Engineer;
         g.   All conditions of approval of the final plat by the City Council
have been satisfied in full.
      (3)   The final acceptance of the plat shall not be deemed to constitute
final acceptance by the City of any improvements or dedications except as
expressly set forth in a City Council resolution. The improvements shall only
be expressly accepted by separate action by the City Council after the City
Engineer submits a statement advising the Council that all of the improvements
have been inspected and found to have been completed in substantial conformance
with City specifications and the approved subdivision improvement plans.
      (4)   Upon finding by the City Engineer that all requirements of this
Code and of the Code of Iowa have been satisfied, the City Clerk shall release
the final plat, Council resolution approving said plat, and all necessary
documents for recording to the developer, and the developer shall promptly
submit same for filing of record in the offices of the appropriate County
Recorder, Auditor, and Assessor. Be it also provided that, the City Clerk may
choose to file any and all deeds and easements for the plat itself, to ensure
that they are in fact promptly and properly filed, and may charge the developer
for all costs associated with said filing.
      (5)   The developer shall submit to the City Clerk a certificate of
recording from the County Recorder’s office or book and page of recordation, to
the City Clerk prior to issuance of any building permits within the platted
area.
4.   Minor Plat of Subdivision. A minor plat of subdivision shall comply with
all of the requirements for a plat of subdivision, except that the developer
may incorporate the preliminary plat and final plat into a single submittal for
concurrent review and action by the City.
5.   Plat of Survey. A plat of survey shall comply with the requirements of a
final plat with the exception of the provision of legal documents. However, a
plat of survey that does not create a new buildable parcel may be reviewed by
the City Engineer for compliance with this code and approved by City Council.
6.   Acquisition Plat. An acquisition plat may be reviewed and approved by the
City Administrator, with concurrency by the City Engineer, in the same manner
as a plat of survey.
7.   Auditor’s Plat. An auditor’s plat shall be submitted, reviewed, and acted
upon by the Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council in the same manner
as a plat of subdivision.
8.   Subdivisions Outside of Corporate Limits. All plats of subdivision, minor
plats of subdivision, plats of survey, acquisition plats, and auditor’s plats
located in the unincorporated area within two miles of the corporate limits of
the City shall be reviewed and approved in the same manner as a like
development application located within the corporate limits of the City. The
development application for such subdivisions that necessitate the extension or
the provision of municipal services, whether at the time of platting or at some
point in the future, shall be required to submit an application for voluntary
annexation, signed by the owner of the real property included in such
subdivision, which shall be recorded and kept on file in the City offices until
such time as City Council approves the petition for voluntary annexation.
9.   Schedule for Development Review and Approval. All development
applications; with the exception of construction drawings, stormwater
management plan and record drawings; shall be reviewed by the Development
Review Committee and then presented to the Planning and Zoning Commission and
City Council in accordance with the development review schedule issued each
year by the City Administrator. It shall be the developer’s responsibility to
coordinate with the City Engineer regarding the schedule for their development
application. There shall be no automatic approval granted for development
applications that do not strictly adhere to the submittal and meeting schedule.
10.   Number and Format of Submittals. All development applications; including
construction drawings, stormwater management plan and record drawings; shall be
provided to the City Engineer in pdf format. After final approval by the City,
a certified pdf copy of the approved application shall be provided to the City
Clerk and City Engineer.
Refer to the following table for the specific number and format of required
submittals for various development applications.
Number and Format of Development Applications
               For Review by For Planning &                  Certified Copies
Submittal Type Development   Zoning         For City Council Following
               Review        Commission     Review           Approval
               Committee     Review
Number and Format of Development Applications
                For Review by For Planning &                  Certified Copies
Submittal Type  Development   Zoning         For City Council Following
                Review        Commission     Review           Approval
                Committee     Review
Neighborhood    3 copies      6 copies       7 copies         1 - 22”x34”
Sketch Plan     and pdf       and pdf        and pdf          pdf
Preliminary     3 copies      6 copies       7 copies         1 – 22”x34”
Plat            and pdf       and pdf        and pdf          pdf
Construction    3 copies      -              7 copies         1 – 22”x34”
Drawings        and pdf                      and pdf          pdf
Final Plat      3 copies      6 copies       7 copies         2 - 22”x34”
                and pdf       and pdf        and pdf          pdf
Record Drawings 3 copies      -              -                1 - 22”x34”
                and pdf                                       pdf
Plat of Survey, 3 copies      6 copies       7 copies         1 - Full Size
Acquisition     and pdf       and pdf        and pdf          pdf
Plats
 
11.   Digital Files of Plat Improvements Required. The developer’s engineer
shall provide the digital copies of the computer-aided design (CAD) files to
the City Engineer in ArcView shapefiles format; such file shall include all
information shown on the approved construction drawing. An additional CAD file
shall be provided to the City Engineer including all information shown on the
approved as-built record drawings.
170.06   PARK AND OPEN SPACE DEDICATION.
Reserved for future use.
170.07   REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
1.   The developer shall install and construct all public and private
improvements required by this chapter prior to Council approval of the final
plat except as may be provided for in Section
170.07(5). All required improvements shall be installed and constructed in
accordance with the approved specifications and under the supervision of the
City Council and to its satisfaction.
2.   All improvements required to be installed pursuant to this chapter and the
approved construction drawings shall be installed prior to the issuance of
building permits for buildings or structures lying within the plan unless the
developer signs an agreement to complete covering the developer’s obligation to
complete all outstanding punch list items and has provided to the City Engineer
a performance bond, certified check, or letter of credit to cover the cost of
completing such punch list items, provided the City Engineer determines none of
the outstanding punch list items negatively impacts the health, safety, or
welfare of builders and construction workers, future inhabits of the
subdivision, or the general public.
3.   Plats of subdivision shall be improved by the developer to provide all
lots within the subdivision with adequate streets and access, public water
mains and fire hydrants, public sanitary sewers, storm sewers and other
drainage improvements, streets, sidewalks, recreational trails, parks and park
infrastructure, mailboxes, streetlights, street signs, and traffic control
signs, all to be designed and constructed by the developer as subdivision
improvements in full accordance with the chapter and particularly in accordance
with design standards set forth in Section
170.08.
4.   A developer may be required to extend or expand existing off-site public
infrastructure as necessary to fully improve a proposed subdivision, or the
City Council may, at its sole discretion, require a proposed subdivision to be
delayed until such extension or expansion can be funded and constructed by the
City or other developer or governmental entity.
5.   Developers shall provide for the perpetual maintenance of any and all
subdivision improvements that are not dedicated to the City or other
governmental entity, by establishing an owners’ association or other person,
whether an individual or individuals, in a manner and form that is acceptable
to the City. Such improvements may include but are not limited to stormwater
detention basins, ponds, bioswales, and infiltration basins; buffer yards,
landscaping, fencing, or walls, and other screening; subdivision signs,
directional signs, traffic signs, and pavement markings; and on-site lighting.
170.08   DESIGN STANDARDS.
1.   General Requirements.
   A.   Subdivisions shall not endanger health, safety, or general welfare of
the public or of persons residing or working on nearby properties and shall not
impair an adequate supply of light and air to nearby properties.
   B.   Subdivisions shall be designed to locate and configure subdivision
improvements in a manner that will not unduly diminish or impair the use and
enjoyment of nearby properties. No subdivision shall be designed or improved in
a manner that impedes or appears to impede the development of nearby properties
that are within the City or the designated area of review.
   C.   Subdivisions and all subdivision improvements shall conform to the
Zoning Ordinance and all other applicable City, State, and federal regulations.
   D.   Developers shall provide for the perpetual maintenance of any and all
subdivision improvements that are not dedicated to the City or other
governmental entity, by establishing an owners’ association or other person,
whether an individual or individuals, in a manner and form that is acceptable
to the City. Such improvements may include but are not limited to stormwater
detention basins, landscaping, and subdivision signs. All such private
improvement shall be established within a permanent easement that defines
maintenance responsibilities for same.
   E.   Every subdivision shall be designed with regard for existing and
proposed topography and drainage patterns, by blending grading for the
subdivision smoothly into the landforms on adjoining properties; considering
and providing for drainage into and through the subdivision, both existing
conditions and at full development of the drainage basin; and by controlling
runoff.
      (1)   An attempt should be made to preserve mature upland forestation and
other natural vegetation and geological features, while recognizing that the
developer is required to substantially grade and contour a subdivision to
construct the required subdivision improvements and properly grade streets,
alleys, and lots to comply with this and other City Codes and regulations, and
state and federal regulations, and recognizing that the probability of post-
development survival of trees and other existing vegetation may be greatly
diminished by such necessary site modifications and disturbances.
      (2)   Clear cutting shall not be permitted unless specifically approved
by City Council and in consideration of quality of species.
      (3)   The timing of tree clearing operations shall be in compliance with
Iowa Department of Natural Resources regulations.
   F.   Subdivisions shall not create or perpetuate outlots that are intended
to prevent adjoining properties from having access to subdivision improvements
that are or will be dedicated to the City unless such outlot is expressly
approved by the City Council at the time of preliminary plat approval.
   G.   Subdivisions and all subdivision improvements shall conform to the
Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Code, and all other applicable City and State
regulations.
   H.   Standard Specifications. All design and construction shall be in
accordance with the Statewide Urban Design and Specifications program
(“SUDAS”). The term “SUDAS” shall be interpreted to include both the SUDAS
Design Manual and the SUDAS Standard Specifications, each as current at the
time the preliminary plat was approved by City Council, including any
amendments approved by the City. Where any conflict exists between SUDAS and
the design standards prescribed by this chapter, the requirements of this
chapter shall govern.
2.   Site Suitability.
   A.   Land to be subdivided shall be of such character that it can be used
safely for building purposes without danger to health or peril from fire,
flood, or other menace, and shall not be subdivided until showing can be made
that those public utilities and improvements will be provided as required by
this chapter and other applicable ordinances of the City, and proper provision
has been made for drainage, water, sewage, transportation facilities and other
improvements, to the greatest extent possible, attention shall be directed to
the prevention of pollution of air, water, including streams, ponds, and
subsurface water aquifer(s).
      (1)   Areas along major drainage ways and areas having steep or unstable
embankments shall be required to provide slope or drainage easements of
sufficient size to allow for slopes to be laid back at a 4:1 slope should
regrading be required in the future, unless such requirement is waived by the
City Engineer.
   B.   Land which the City finds to be unsuitable for subdivision or
development due to flooding, improper drainage, steep slopes, rock formations,
adverse earth formations or topography, utility easements, or other features
which will reasonably be harmful to the health, safety, and general welfare of
the present or future inhabitants of the subdivision, surrounding areas, or
both, shall not be subdivided or developed unless adequate methods are
formulated by the developer and approved by City Council, upon recommendation
of the Planning and Zoning Commission to solve the problems created by the
unsuitable land conditions.
   C.   Soil tests and geotechnical report are required in accordance with
Section
170.11, Subsection 1(E); unless waived by City Engineer; to ascertain whether
expansive soils or other conditions exist that may affect the suitability and
design of the subdivision and subdivision improvements.
3.   Blocks.
   A.   No block shall be longer than 1,320 feet, measured from street
centerline to street centerline.
   B.   At street intersections, block corners shall be rounded with a radius
of not less than 25 feet as measured at the right-of-way line. However, the
right-of-way radii at intersections involving one or more arterial streets
shall require special design as consideration and approval by the City
Engineer.
4.   Lots.
   A.   Minimum lot dimensions and size shall conform to the requirements of
the Zoning Code for the applicable zoning district.
   B.   A subdivision may establish setback lines that are greater than the
minimum requirements of the Zoning Code or other City requirements for any or
all lots. By so drawing or designating such setback lines on the plat, such
setback lines shall thereafter be the minimum setback requirements for said
lots.
   C.   Setback lines shall parallel the street right-of-way. Minimum lot
widths and frontage shall be measured parallel or radial to the right-of-way
line respectively for straight or curved segments.
   D.   Side lot lines shall be at right angles to the street right-of-way, or
radial to the street right-of-way on curved streets.
   E.   Minimum street frontage. All lots shall front onto a street and obtain
vehicular access from a street. Lots that front onto a public street shall have
the minimum street frontage required by the Zoning Code, including lots that
front on cul-de-sac turnarounds.
   F.   Corner lots. All corner lots shall have a minimum width of 20 feet
greater than the minimum lot width required by the Zoning Code in order to
permit adequate building setbacks on both front and side streets.
   G.   Double Frontage Lots. Double frontage lots shall be prohibited, except
where such lots back onto a major thoroughfare or highway or in the case of
large commercial or industrial lots. Such double frontage lots shall have a 20
foot wide landscape buffer easement adjoining the rear street frontage. The
building setback shall be measured from the boundary of landscape buffer
easement.
   H.   Flag Lots. The division of land into a flag lot or lots shall generally
be discouraged by the City; and only permitted to provide access to lots where
there exists unique topography, an unusual configuration of land ownership,
adjoining developed land will not allow access from a public street, public
land or environmentally sensitive land that is planned to be left undisturbed,
or to minimize streets or public infrastructure to reduce maintenance
responsibilities. Flag lots shall be permitted only when specifically approved
by City Council.
   I.   Buffers. Buffers and improvements thereto shall be provided by the
developer in accordance with the minimum requirements of the Zoning Code, or
such additional requirements that the City Council may be stipulate as a
condition of approval of a plat. All fences, berms and buffer yard plantings
and improvements shall conform to the Zoning Code.
   J.   Lot Size where Public Services Are Not Available. For the purpose of
complying with minimum health standards, lots which cannot be reasonably served
by an off-site public or common sanitary sewer system shall have a minimum
width of 125 feet measured at the front yard setback line and an area of not
less than one acre. Lots shall be a minimum of two acres where there is
proposed an on-site well for potable water and on-site sewage disposal is
proposed.
5.   Grading and Seeding.
   A.   The developer and his or her contractors shall be responsible for
obtaining approval of a grading permit from the City prior to commencing any
tree removal or grading operations. All tree removal and grading shall be in
conformance with an approved preliminary plat and the requirements of SUDAS and
applicable City Codes.
   B.   During grading operations, existing topsoil shall be stripped and
stockpiled on site. No topsoil shall be removed from the property without prior
approval of the City Council. A minimum of four inches of topsoil shall be
spread across the entire subdivision, exclusive of streets and wet-bottom
detention basins or ponds unless the geotechnical report clearly demonstrates
there is insufficient existing topsoil on site; in which case the developer
shall develop a mitigation plan for review by the City Engineer and approval by
City Council in conjunction with the construction drawings. The developer shall
provide verification of compliance with topsoil requirements.
   C.   All lots in subdivisions shall be graded to be entirely one foot or
more above the base flood elevation as determined by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) for a regulatory flood having a one percent or less
chance of occurring in any one year, or any such higher standard that may
hereafter be adopted by FEMA, and to allow basements that will be not less than
one foot above the base flood elevation of the regulatory flood to be included
in single-family detached residential and any and all other development that
customarily is constructed with basements or other low enclosed building areas,
on all lots. The developer shall cause minimum floor elevations (MFE) that are
fully compliant with City and FEMA regulations to be noted on the final plat,
or an engineer’s exhibit attached to the final plat, and the final plat shall
state that the property owner is responsible for maintaining their lot in
perpetual compliance with said minimum floor elevations (MFE).
   D.   When a portion of a proposed lot lies less than one foot above the
FEMA-established base flood elevation, said area shall be designated as an
unbuildable outlot and perpetually tied to the adjoining buildable lot by a
record of lot tie agreement that shall be recorded with the final plat.
   E.   Minimum opening elevation (MOE) requirements are intended to protect
property only from localized storm runoff, detention basins and ponds, or
shallow flooding, and shall not be allowed or construed to satisfy or comply
with FEMA requirements or City code requirements and intent to protect persons
and property from the dangers and adverse effects of flooding, regardless of
whether a LOMR-F has been obtained for a property. MOE requirements shall be
construed to apply to an entire lot and all portions of every building unless
an exception is expressly noted and approved with whatever conditions and
limitations that are deemed appropriate for any such exception, including, but
not limited to, a case where MOE protection is necessary for surface water
flowage or stormwater management that is contained within a public easement on
a portion of a lot, and does not affect the entire lot. The developer shall
cause minimum opening elevations (MOE) to be noted on the final plat, or an
engineer’s exhibit recorded with the final plat, and the final plat shall state
that the property owner is responsible for maintaining their lot in perpetual
compliance with said minimum opening elevations (MOE).
   F.   No cut trees, timber, debris, contaminated soil, waste concrete, junk,
rubbish, sewage, garbage, or food waste shall be buried, or left deposited on
any private or public lot or outlot at the time the public improvements are
accepted. Debris and soil deposited on existing public streets during
construction shall be removed by the developer before the end of each work day.
   G.   As soon as practicable following completion of grading, the entire site
shall be seeded with an erosion control seed mixture in accordance with SUDAS.
However, areas designated for parks or similar areas that will be owned by the
City or under common ownership by an owners association shall be seeded with a
permanent lawn mixture. Detention basins and ponds shall be seeded with a
permanent seed mixture that is deemed suitable to wet conditions by the City
Engineer.
6.   Streets.
   A.   The street layout in proposed plats and subdivisions shall conform to
the Comprehensive Plan, Neighborhood Sketch Plan, and Zoning Regulations.
   B.   General. Streets shall be platted with appropriate regard for
topography, creeks, wooded areas, and other natural features which would lend
themselves to attractive treatment whenever possible.
   C.   Connectivity. Public streets in all subdivisions shall be designed and
configured to provide connectivity between adjoining properties and
subdivisions to facilitate access and circulation within neighborhoods; to be
in conformance with the Comprehensive Plan; and to thereby minimize and reduce
traffic congestion, improve the efficiency of providing municipal services and
enhance public health, safety, and welfare together with protecting and
increasing property values. Subdivisions of large parcels shall be designed and
phased accordingly, to establish such connectivity at the earliest reasonable
date.
   D.   Functional Classification. The City Engineer shall have the sole
authority to establish the municipal functional classification of a street as a
major arterial, minor arterial, collector, or local street for the purposes of
this Code. The municipal functional classification may deviate from the federal
functional classification for the same street.
   E.   Right-of-Way. All new street rights-of-way shall be conveyed by
warranty deed and without any conditions or limitations, in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   Major arterial street rights-of-way shall be designed to have a
total minimum right-of-way width of 120 feet, or wider if so required by the
City Engineer or City Council, and subdivisions on each side of the centerlines
thereof shall dedicate one-half of such width;
      (2)   Minor arterial street rights-of-way shall be designed to have a
total minimum right-of-way width of 100 feet, or wider if so required by the
City Engineer or City Council;
      (3)   Parkways shall be designed to include a continuous 15 feet wide
parkway easement on both sides of the parkway.
      (4)   Collector street rights-of-way for residential subdivisions shall
be designed to have a total minimum right-of-way width of 70 feet, and
collector street rights-of-way for nonresidential subdivisions shall be
designed to have a total minimum right-of-way width of 80 feet, or wider if so
required by the City Engineer or City Council.
      (5)   Local street rights-of-way for residential subdivisions shall be
designed to have a total minimum right-of-way width of 60 feet, and local
street rights-of-way for nonresidential subdivisions shall be designed to have
a total minimum right-of-way width of 70 feet, or wider if so required by the
City Engineer or City Council.
      (6)   Additional street rights-of-way widths may be required to be
dedicated at the intersections of streets and access points, in order to
accommodate turn lanes and sidewalks within the rights-of-way.
      (7)   The foregoing street rights-of-way widths may be amended if
previously approved by City Council after consultation with the City Engineer.
   F.   Costs; Responsibilities. Developers shall be fully responsible for the
following costs related to street improvements, all of which shall be designed
and constructed in accordance with SUDAS:
      (1)   The entire cost of providing and installing all collector and local
streets within a subdivision.
      (2)   A portion of the cost of improving any existing, unimproved
granular street that abuts the proposed subdivision, unless specifically waived
by City Council. The developer’s cost share shall be 50 percent of the cost of
the street improvement project up to a maximum width of 13 feet of P.C.C.
pavement, along with associated storm sewers grading and engineering, and shall
be based on a cost opinion prepared by the City Engineer for design and
reconstruction of the existing street to meet City standards. If the City
Engineer determines it is impractical for the developer to pave said abutting,
unimproved street as a subdivision improvement, generally based on the status
of development on the opposite side of the unimproved street, the City shall
require the developer to provide a subdivision bond, a cash payment to the City
to be held in escrow for future paving of the unimproved street, or similar
security as may be approved by the City Attorney to cover the developer’s
responsibility for paving of the unimproved street.
      (3)   The cost for providing and installing turn lanes, street widening,
medians, traffic signals and similar traffic and transportation improvements
based on a traffic impact study if required for the subdivision in accordance
with Section
170.08, Subsection 6(X) and other issues as may be determined by the City
Administrator.
   G.   Continuation of Existing and Planned Streets. Subdivisions shall be
designed to provide for the continuation of existing and planned public
streets, and those in valid preliminary plats, in whatever manner is deemed
appropriate by the City Engineer. Streets shall be designed and configured to
conveniently channel local traffic onto collector and arterial streets and to
discourage through traffic, being that which does not have an origin or
destination within the subdivision or nearby area, from utilizing collector or
local streets as a means of traveling from arterial street to arterial street.
   H.   Intersections. Street intersections shall be in conformance with SUDAS
and shall be at right angles wherever possible and not less than a 90-degree
angle or shall be in conformance with SUDAS requirements if said requirements
are more restrictive. The minimum offset between street intersections shall be
in conformance with SUDAS.
   I.   Improvement and Dedication. Streets shall be so located and designed as
to be improved and dedicated to the full rights-of-way and roadway widths as
required by this Code. No street shall be designed or accepted for half-width
paving or right-of-way dedication.
   J.   Limited Access to Arterial and Collector Streets.
      (1)   Streets and other vehicular accesses shall be designed to intersect
or otherwise connect to arterial streets at points measuring not less than a
nominal minimum distance of 600 feet between full movement accesses and of 300
feet between any access and right-turn only or other limited-movement accesses
to said arterial street; provided that access shall be in conformance with
SUDAS requirements if they are more restrictive.
      (2)   Single-family lots in plats of subdivision shall not be allowed to
have driveway access to an arterial street, except where no other streets are
reasonably available to provide access and subject to the locations of any such
accesses being shown on the plat and approved by the City Council. Such access
restriction shall be noted on the final plat.
      (3)   The final plat shall restrict access to corner lots and double-
frontage lots to the lower-order street unless otherwise approved by City
Council.
   K.   Turn Lanes and Traffic-Control Devices.
      (1)   Right and left turn lanes shall be provided at all points that
provide or are intended to provide access to an arterial street from existing
or proposed nonresidential or multi-family residential development, unless such
requirement is waived by the City Engineer. The City Engineer may require right
and left turn lanes to be provided for access to a collector street based on
the design of the subdivision or neighborhood and expected traffic volumes.
      (2)   The City Engineer may require traffic signalization or other
traffic control devices to be included in the subdivision improvements for any
plat of subdivision if zoned or planned for nonresidential or multi-family
development.
   L.   Shared Access and Alignment. Streets and other vehicular accesses shall
be designed to align with existing or proposed, approved streets and other
vehicular access points on the opposing frontage of arterial and collector
streets. Cross-access easements shall be provided, in whatever configuration,
dimension, and manner that the City Engineer deems necessary and appropriate,
to allow and facilitate the sharing of access to public streets by multiple
properties, whether the properties are within or outside of the subdivision
boundaries, in order to reduce traffic conflicts and congestion, and improve
safety.
   M.   Cul-de-sacs.
      (1)   Cul-de-sacs shall not exceed a length of 600 feet as measured from
the centerline of the intersecting street to the center of the turnaround, and
shall not serve more than 30 dwelling units, unless a longer length or larger
numbers of units is approved by the City Council, upon recommendation of the
City Administrator and Fire Chief, in accordance with Section
170.14 of this chapter.
      (2)   Land uses generating a maximum of 300 average daily trips (“ADT”)
or a maximum of 30 single-family detached dwelling units will be permitted
access to a cul-de-sac street without a second means of access. Traffic
generation will be based upon trip generation in accordance with the Institute
of Traffic Engineers. Land uses exceeding said maximums shall have secondary
access unless otherwise approved by City Council in accordance with Section
170.14 of this chapter.
      (3)   A permanent turn around shall be provided at the end of each cul-
de-sac in accordance with SUDAS, except that the minimum cul-de-sac radii shall
be 45 feet as measured at the back of curb of the roadway and 62 feet as
measured at the street right-of-way. Permanent dead-end street other than cul-
de-sacs are prohibited, and no lots shall take their access from a dead-end
street other than a cul-de-sac, permanent or temporary, unless waived by City
Engineer or if driveway access is restricted. Hammerheads shall not be
considered an acceptable alternative to a cul-de-sac.
      (4)   “Eyebrow” cul-de-sacs. A cul-de-sac bulb used at an “L-shaped”
intersection in the street shall be discouraged, and only permitted to improve
access to lots at the “eyebrow” cul-de-sac intersection due to the unique
topography of the area, unusual configuration of land ownership, or existing
adjoining developed land will not allow access from a through street or
traditional cul-de-sac, or the existence of public land or environmentally
sensitive land that is planned to be left undisturbed. The “eyebrow” cul-de-sac
at an intersection shall be designed with dimensions, radii and curve standards
as used for cul-de-sacs with the center of the cul-de-sac bulb located at the
intersection of the street centerlines and shall have a minimum radius of 50
feet as measured at the back of curb of the roadway and 65 feet as measured at
the street right-of-way.
      (5)   Temporary Cul-de-sacs. Streets that are temporary dead-end streets
shall be provided with a turnaround having a cul-de-sac with radii no less than
40 feet and of a design that is satisfactory to the City Engineer. A gravel
turnaround shall be considered acceptable if the temporary dead-end street is
part of a larger subdivision by the same developer, provided the street is
extended within two years and provided the developer maintains the gravel
turnaround in a manner that is acceptable to the City Engineer until such time
as the street is extended. Hammerheads shall not be considered an acceptable
alternative to a cul-de-sac unless specifically approved by City Engineer for
short-term applications only.
   N.   Access to Bi-attached or Townhomes from Public Streets. Any subdivision
designed to accommodate townhomes and bi-attached homes shall provide driveways
off private streets rather than public streets whenever possible. In unique
cases, the City may approve driveway access for bi-attached dwellings or
townhomes off a public street provided the driveway approaches with public
right-of-way are spaced no closer than 80 feet on center. Shared driveways may
be required to achieve said driveway approach spacing.
   O.   Secondary Access Required. Land uses generating a more than 300 average
daily trips or more than 30 single-family detached dwelling units shall have a
secondary means of access to the lots, unless otherwise approved on a valid
preliminary plat. Traffic generation will be based on actual traffic counts or
upon trip generation in accordance with the Institute of Traffic Engineers.
   P.   Pavement width. The width of the street or roadway shall be in
accordance with SUDAS, based on the functional classification of the roadway as
determined by the City Engineer or unless otherwise approved by the City
Council.
   Q.   Pavement and Subbase Material. All proposed public streets shall be
paved with Portland cement concrete (PCC) and shall have six inches integral
curb and gutter, unless an alternative paving material or design is approved by
the City Council in accordance with Section
170.14 of this chapter. Pavement thickness shall be per SUDAS, based on the
municipal functional classification of an equivalent street as determined by
the City Engineer. The City Engineer may require the developer’s engineer to
complete a pavement thickness design per SUDAS to determine required thickness
of materials, subdrain requirements, and other design parameters based on a 50-
year analysis period.
   R.   Extension to Plat Boundary. All public streets shall be extended to the
plat boundary unless otherwise specifically approved by City Council upon
recommendation by the City Engineer. In such unique cases, the responsibility
for future extension of the public street may be addressed though a Development
Agreement approved by City Council.
   S.   Private Streets. Unless otherwise approved by City Council, private
streets serving commercial uses shall be a minimum of 24 feet wide unless the
City Engineer determines greater width is necessary due to expected traffic
volume or truck traffic. Private streets serving residential uses shall be in
conformance with Zoning Code. Pavement thickness shall be per SUDAS, based on
the functional classification of an equivalent street as determined by the City
Engineer. All public utilities shall be located outside the pavement unless
otherwise approved by the City Engineer and the easement for said public
utilities specifies the City shall not be responsible for removal and/or
replacement of the street pavement should utility repair, replacement,
upsizing, or similar work be deemed necessary by the City.
   T.   Street Names. All newly platted streets shall be named in a manner
conforming to the City's street naming system. Street names that are similar to
existing street names shall be avoided. Horseshoe-shaped streets shall change
names in a location deemed most appropriate by the Development Review
Committee. In no case shall there be two or more intersections with the same
street names. Cul-de-sacs shall not bear the same name as a perpendicular
street. City Council reserves the right to alter the proposed names of streets
before acceptance of the final plat.
   U.   Half Streets. Dedication of half streets will not be permitted. Where
there exists a dedicated or platted half street or alley adjacent to the
property to be subdivided, the other half shall be platted if deemed necessary
by the Council.
   V.   Alleys. Alleys may be permitted in commercial areas provided the alley
is privately owned and maintained. Alleys may be permitted in residential areas
to provide access to the rear of the lots where said lot also has frontage on a
public street. Alleys serving multiple properties shall be maintained by
property owners or property owners association. Dead-end alleys shall be
provided with a means of turning around at the end of the alley. Public
utilities shall not be located within an alley.
   W.   Driveways. Driveways for single-family residential uses shall not be
permitted to access arterial streets or, to the extent possible, collector
streets. Such access restrictions shall be noted on the final plat.
   X.   Traffic Impact Study. A Traffic Impact Study shall be required when a
proposed subdivision will generate 100 or more added (new) trips during the
adjacent roadway’s peak hour or at the development’s peak hour. The developer
will be responsible for completing an application for traffic analysis
including the preliminary plat or detailed concept plan; building locations,
types, quantity, and land use; and all proposed access locations; and peak hour
trips in accordance with Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) standards.
The Traffic Impact Study, when required, will be completed by the City
Engineer. The developer will be responsible for the entire cost of said Traffic
Impact Study, with these costs paid in full prior to any work being commenced
on the study in accordance with Section
170.13. The City Engineer has the authority to waive the requirement for a
Traffic Impact Study if deemed appropriate.
7.   Water Mains.
   A.   Water mains shall be a minimum of eight inches in diameter, or larger
if increased size is determined to be necessary to provide domestic and fire
flows as determined to be satisfactory and necessary by the City Engineer.
Developers shall be fully responsible for the costs of all mains that are eight
inches or less in diameter, however developers shall not be responsible for the
cost of upsizing the water main to a larger pipe unless the larger pipe is
needed to serve the developer’s subdivision or property. The cost of the water
main shall include the pipe and bedding, together with all hydrants, valves,
and other appurtenances thereto, and as may be otherwise required to be in full
accordance with the requirements of SUDAS and applicable City codes.
   B.   Water service lines shall be extended to each lot. The minimum size for
a water service line serving a single-family dwelling shall be one inch and
shall terminate at a curb stop located one foot inside the right-of-way line.
Duplexes, bi-attached residences, townhomes, and condominiums shall have a
separate water service line to each dwelling unit. No lot shall have more than
one service line, whether or not in actual use, unless expressly approved by
the City Engineer.
   C.   Fire hydrants shall be provided in the number and locations required by
the City Engineer, in consultation with the Fire Department, and shall be
supplied with appropriate connections as may be specified by the Fire
Department. Fire hydrant coverage shall be in conformance with City Fire Code
or SUDAS, whichever is more restrictive. The City Engineer may approve
adjustment to building setback lines on the preliminary and final plats to
ensure adequate hydrant coverage is provided to the buildable areas of the
lots.
   D.   Water mains shall be located within public right-of-way wherever
possible. If the City allows a fire hydrant to be located on private property,
the developer shall provide paved access to said hydrant, with pavement
designed to support fire trucks and including a turn-around as approved by the
Fire Chief.
   E.   Extension to boundary. Water mains and appurtenances thereto shall be
extended to the boundary of the plat of subdivision where necessary to
accommodate future extensions as determined by the City Engineer.
   F.   For subdivisions that cannot reasonably be served by a public water
system, a private water system shall be installed to meet City standards,
including provision of fire flows and construction observation, and an
agreement shall be executed and recorded providing for conveyance of the water
system to the City without cost upon annexation. All such private facilities
shall be restricted to personal household and agricultural uses and shall be
subject to approval by Grundy County Board of Health or to certification by an
independent professional engineer and qualified testing laboratory if not
subject to county regulation or if the county lacks the ability to perform the
necessary testing and approval of the facility’s design and construction.
8.   Sanitary Sewers.
   A.   Sanitary sewers shall be a minimum of eight inches in diameter, or
larger if increased size is determined to be necessary to serve the entire
service area as determined by the City Engineer. Developers shall be fully
responsible for the costs of all sanitary sewers that are eight inches or less
in diameter; however, developers shall not be responsible for the cost of
upsizing the sanitary sewer to a larger pipe unless the larger pipe is needed
to serve the developer’s subdivision or property. The cost of the sanitary
sewer shall include the pipe and bedding, together with all structures and
other appurtenances thereto, and as may be otherwise required to be in full
accordance with the requirements of SUDAS and applicable City codes.
   B.   Sanitary sewer service lines shall be extended to each lot. The minimum
size for a sanitary sewer service line serving a single-family dwelling shall
be four inches and shall terminate 10 feet inside the lot. Duplexes, bi-
attached, and townhomes shall have a separate sanitary sewer service line to
each dwelling unit. No lot shall have more than one service line, whether or
not in actual use, unless expressly approved by the City Engineer.
   C.   Sanitary sewers shall be constructed outside the limits of the street
pavement wherever possible.
   D.   The minimum grade for a sanitary sewer shall be 0.5 percent, or as
specified by SUDAS, whichever is steeper.
   E.   The end of all sanitary sewer service lines shall be marked with a wood
2x4, set at the flowline elevation at the end of the pipe and extending up to
the surface elevation of the ground at that location.
   F.   Where sanitary sewer services are added to an existing sanitary sewer
line or when a new manhole is constructed on top of an existing sanitary sewer
line, the developer shall be responsible for re-testing the existing line
following construction.
   G.   Extension to Boundary. Sanitary sewers and appurtenances thereto shall
be extended to the boundary of the plat of subdivision where necessary to
accommodate future extensions as determined by the City Engineer.
   H.   Subdivisions within corporate limits shall be connected to the City’s
sanitary sewer system. Subdivisions without sanitary sewer service shall only
be permitted by special approval of City Council and shall require construction
of dry sanitary sewers within a 50 feet wide easement or provision of a 100
feet wide easement for construction and maintenance of future sanitary sewers.
   I.   For subdivisions outside corporate limits that cannot reasonably be
served by a public sanitary sewer system, dry sanitary sewers shall be
installed to meet City standards, and an agreement shall be executed and
recorded providing for conveyance of the sanitary sewer system to the City
without cost upon annexation. The sanitary sewer easement for such dry sewers
shall be 50 feet wide, minimum. In certain unique cases, City Council may waive
the requirement for dry sewers provided a sanitary sewer easement not less than
100 feet wide shall be provided to allow for construction and maintenance of
future sanitary sewers.
9.   Storm Sewers and Drainage.
   A.   Stormwater Management Plan. A stormwater management plan, prepared and
certified by the developer’s engineer, shall be provided for review and
approval by the City Engineer. Such plan shall be in conformance with SUDAS and
municipal code including but not limited to
Chapter 151: Trees,
Chapter 160: Floodplain Management,
Chapter 100: Discharge of Stormwater into Public Sewers,
Chapter 138: Street Grades, and this chapter.
   B.   Developers shall be fully responsible for the cost of all storm sewers,
structures, and appurtenances thereto, drainage ways and other surface water
flows, and stormwater detention facilities; all of which shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with SUDAS and applicable City codes. Sump pump
collector lines conveying no surface drainage shall be eight inches minimum in
size and shall contain clean-outs set in a 12 inch x 12 inch concrete pad.
   C.   Subdrains shall be provided along both sides of all public streets
unless waived by the City Engineer. Open jointed storm sewers may be considered
as an alternative to subdrains if approved by the City Engineer.
   D.   In areas where the longitudinal slope of the proposed roadway meets or
exceeds six percent, flowable mortar cutoff walls per SUDAS Figure 7040.105 are
required located at a spacing not to exceed 150 feet. Lateral subdrains will be
continued longitudinally along pavement to the nearest intake or approved free
outlet.
   E.   All lots that are zoned or planned for single-family residential
development shall be provided with a storm sewer service line that is capable
of collecting and conveying footing drain discharges to an appropriate outlet.
Open discharge of footing drains shall not be permitted unless specifically
approved by the City Engineer and only if an acceptable drainage way with
overland flowage easement is available on the same lot.
   F.   The end of all storm sewer service lines shall be marked with a wood
2x4, set at the flowline elevation at the end of the pipe and extending up to
the surface elevation of the ground at that location.
   G.   Provisions for Large Storm Events. Provisions shall be made and
maintained for surface passage of runoff from storms that exceed the design
capacity of the storm sewer system, without causing flooding or damage to
public streets or nearby properties. Surface water flowage easements shall be
provided over any and all such areas of flow that convey any off-site runoff
through a lot, of sufficient dimensions to cover the runoff resulting from a
storm having a one percent chance of occurrence in any single year, as defined
by SUDAS.
   H.   Detention. Stormwater detention shall be calculated and provided in
accordance with SUDAS.
      (1)   Whenever possible, stormwater detention shall be accommodated in
regional basins serving multiple parcels of land rather than individual lots;
and shall be constructed as a subdivision improvement whenever possible rather
than being deferred as a future site improvement.
      (2)   Stormwater detention basins and/or ponds shall be privately owned
and maintained unless otherwise specifically approved by City Council on a
valid preliminary plat.
      (3)   Stormwater detention shall not be located within a Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) designated one percent floodplain. Unless
otherwise approved by the City Engineer, stormwater detention shall be located
adjacent to, rather than within, natural drainageways. Storm detention shall
not be located within minimum required buffer yards or landscape setbacks
unless the detention is located within a subsurface structure of sufficient
depth below the surface to allow required landscaping to be planted and
maintained over such buried detention.
      (4)   Low flows shall be piped through detention basins whenever
possible, and a paved trickle channel shall be provided to convey the low flows
if piping is not practical, to facilitate maintenance of the basin unless the
basin is expressly designed to facilitate the absorption or infiltration of
runoff storm detention.
      (5)   The high-water level, based on a 100-year storm event, shall be
noted on the preliminary plat and construction drawings. Easement area shall be
based on one foot of freeboard above said high water level. Wet-bottom
detention ponds shall have a 10 feet wide easement area around the perimeter of
the pond to allow full access for maintenance and repair purposes. All
easements shall connect to the public right-of-way.
      (6)   Staged outlet control of detention basins shall be required to
ensure discharge is restricted during both five-year and 100-year rainfall
events.
      (7)   Detention facilities or ponds shall be privately owned and
maintained. However, in certain unique circumstances with demonstrated
recreational needs, the City Council may consider taking ownership of a
detention facility or pond. In such unique cases, the developer shall sign an
agreement to complete with appropriate security that obligates the developer to
certify the grading of said facility or pond is complete at the time the
subdivision is 80 percent developed, with the timing of said certification to
be as determined by the City Engineer. This agreement shall specifically
require the developer to remove accumulated silt and sediment may be necessary
to demonstrate the as-built conditions correspond to the approved design in
accordance with the approved construction drawings.
   I.   Lot Drainage. Drainage swales shall be developed as necessary to ensure
positive drainage away from each lot; such required drainage swales shall be
preserved by an overland flowage easement. Vegetated areas shall have a two
percent minimum slope to maintain positive drainage throughout each lot and the
subdivision as a whole. Subsurface drainage shall be provided in such locations
and manner as may be required by the City Engineer, which may include but is
not limited to the rear lot lines of any or all lots.
   J.   Erosion Control. Erosion control improvements shall be installed in and
along all surface drainage channels to reduce flow velocities and protect
channel bottoms and banks from scouring and cutting, and at storm sewer
outfalls and discharge points, in whatever matter and extent that the City
Engineer finds necessary to prevent channel and sheet erosion to a reasonable
extent. Such improvements may include, but are not limited to, drop structures,
stilling basins, check dams, placement of riprap, and weirs.
   K.   Off-site Discharge. If it is necessary to discharge a concentration of
surface runoff onto an adjoining property, provisions shall be made to
dissipate the erosive energy from said concentration of runoff and to maintain
the general drainage pattern as it existed prior to construction of the
subdivision improvements. It shall be the developer’s responsibility to acquire
permanent easements from the adjoining property owner.
   L.   Extension to Boundary. Storm sewers and appurtenances thereto shall be
extended to the boundary of the plat of subdivision where necessary for
collecting or discharging runoff as determined by the City Engineer.
10.   Franchise Utilities. All public utility lines and appurtenances thereto;
including, but not limited to, electrical, gas, and telecommunication lines;
shall be buried underground within public utility easements provided for said
public utilities in accordance with City Code. The developer shall be
responsible for making the necessary arrangements with each of the serving
utilities to comply with this requirement, including payment of any
construction or installation charges or fees by any utility company.
11.   Sidewalks. Public sidewalks with a minimum width of five feet are
required along the frontages of all public streets and along not less than one
side of all common private access drives, unless alternative routing such as a
rear lot walkway or open space trail system is approved by the City Council on
a valid preliminary plat. The developer shall be responsible for constructing
two ADA-compliant ramps and the common square at each corner of all
intersections, unless otherwise specifically approved on the preliminary plat.
The developer shall be responsible for constructing all sidewalks within the
subdivision that do not front on a buildable lot as a plat improvement. The
developer shall be responsible for constructing sidewalks across drainage
swales or flow paths where a depressed sidewalk is required to maintain
unobstructed flowage. The developer shall be responsible for constructing
public sidewalks along arterial streets and parkways as a subdivision
improvement. A sidewalk performance bond shall be posted for all sidewalks not
constructed with the subdivision.
12.   Recreational Trails.
   A.   Where access to a regional or municipal trail is reasonably available,
the developer shall be responsible for installing a 10 feet wide P.C.C trail
connector from the public sidewalks within the subdivision to the regional or
municipal trail as a subdivision improvement. The trail connector shall be
located in a minimum 20 feet wide outlot that is dedicated to the City or a
minimum 30 feet wide easement.
   B.   Costs; Responsibilities. When recreational trail connectors are
constructed by the developer as a subdivision improvement, the developer shall
be responsible for all construction costs.
13.   Cluster Mailboxes. All lots in all subdivisions shall be served by a
cluster box unit (“CBU”); private mailboxes serving individual lots shall not
be permitted in new subdivisions unless specifically approved by the Postmaster
and City Council. The developer shall be responsible for paving an ADA
compliant Portland cement concrete pad and the accessory four feet wide
sidewalk that connects to the public sidewalk system. The developer shall be
responsible for making the necessary arrangements with the United States Postal
Service, including but not limited to obtaining approval from the Postmaster
and the Public Works Director for the CBU locations prior to submitting
construction drawings for subdivision improvements. The developer shall be
responsible the cost of providing and installing each CBU and associated
sidewalks as a subdivision improvement.
14.   Streetlights. The developer shall cause plans and specifications to be
prepared for street lighting on all new public streets within the subdivision,
for approval by the City Engineer and the appropriate franchise utility
company. Upon approval of said plans and specifications, the developer shall
cause the lights to be installed in accordance with said plans and
specifications, as part of the required subdivision improvements along all
streets in the subdivision, all in accordance with City street lighting
policies, SUDAS, and the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD).
Streetlights shall be designed to prioritize lighting of intersections, turn
lanes, and major access points, including park and school entrances and shall
not be more than 300 feet apart. Wooden poles and overhead wiring shall be
prohibited.
15.   Street and Traffic Control Signs and Markings. Street name signs;
traffic-control signs including but not limited to speed limit signs, stop
signs, and no parking signs; and pavement markings are the responsibility of
the developer as subdivision improvements and shall be designed and shown on
all construction documents. Said improvements shall be provided at all new
intersections within and bordering the subdivision, and traffic control signs
and pavement markings including parking prohibitions and restrictions shall be
installed and provided along all streets in the subdivision, all in accordance
with SUDAS and the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD). Street
name signs and traffic control signs shall be installed by the City and shall
be reimbursed by the developer to the City prior to acceptance of the public
improvements.
16.   Easements. Easements shall be provided for all subdivision improvements
that serve or benefit more than one property owner, to enable access to, use
of, service from or by, operation, maintenance and any and all other benefits
that may be obtained from or provided by such improvements. Subdivision
improvements for which easements shall be provided include but are not limited
to those improvements that are to be dedicated to the City, other governmental
entity or an owners’ association. Easements for improvements being dedicated to
the City shall be dedicated by legal instrument on a form that has been
approved by the City Attorney, in addition to being drawn on the final plat
that is made of record.
   A.   Buffer Easement. Easements for buffer areas required by Zoning Code or
as shown on the approved preliminary plat. Buffer easements shall clarify the
homeowners’ association or property owners’ association shall be responsible
for perpetual maintenance and replacement of plant materials and all other
elements of the buffer.
   B.   Monument Sign. Easements for monument signs used to designate or
identify a subdivision, residential neighborhood, group of businesses or
business park shall be of sufficient size to include the monument sign,
lighting for said sign, and associated landscaping but shall be designed to
exclude any required vision triangles at intersections or access locations.
Monument signs shall not be permitted to have changeable lettering and this
limitation shall be noted in the easement document and shall be enforceable
whether or not so noted. Such easements shall stipulate that the monument sign,
along with lighting and landscaping are private improvements and shall be
perpetually repaired and maintained by the property owners and not the City.
   C.   Municipal Utilities. Easements for sanitary sewers, storm sewers, and
water mains shall have a width that is not less than twice the depth of the
pipe as measured between the finished ground surface and flow line of the sewer
or main, or 30 feet, whichever is greater. Easements shall be centered over the
sewer or main, unless an alternative alignment is stipulated by the City
Engineer. Easements for municipal utilities shall not be overlapped by
easements for public or private utilities, including, but not limited to,
electricity, natural gas, and telecommunications, unless allowed by the City
Engineer. Easements shall be designed and located such that the City shall have
reasonable access to the easement area across abutting properties as approved
by the City Engineer. In the case where municipal utilities are located beneath
the pavement of a private street or alley, the easement for said public
utilities shall specifically state that the City shall not be responsible for
removal or replacement of the street pavement should utility repair,
replacement, upsizing, or similar work be deemed necessary by the City.
   D.   Public Utilities. Easements for the mutual and nonexclusive use of all
public and private utilities, including, but not limited to, electricity,
natural gas, and telecommunications, shall be provided to serve all lots and
condominium units, and as necessary to energize streetlights, unless an
acceptable alternative is submitted to and approved by the City Attorney prior
to the filing of a final plat. Such easements shall be a minimum of 10 feet in
width when located along front or rear lot lines, and a minimum of five feet in
width when located along side lot lines, and shall not overlay or overlap any
easement for public infrastructure, surface drainage, stormwater management, or
recreational trails except with the express approval of the City Engineer.
   E.   Recreational Trails. Easements for recreational trails shall be 30 feet
or more in width unless the paved portion of the walkway or trail is located
within or in close proximity to a public street right-of-way, in which case the
City Engineer may allow the easement width to be reduced.
   F.   Shared Access or Ingress/Egress. Easements shall be provided in
accordance with whatever location, size, configuration, and dimensions as
approved on the preliminary plat or site plan in order to achieve and implement
shared access to public streets, improve vehicular circulation in the area as a
whole, permit Public Works access for maintenance of public improvements and
private fire hydrants, and facilitate emergency access to properties. Such
easements shall stipulate that the private street, driveway, roadway, or access
shall be perpetually repaired and maintained by the property owner and not the
City.
   G.   Stormwater Detention. Easement and maintenance agreements for
stormwater detention shall require the owners’ association; or only in certain
unique circumstances as may be approved by Council, the owner of the property
on which the easement is located; to have perpetual responsibility for the
repair and maintenance of all facilities associated with the detention basin or
pond; including storm sewer pipes and structures unless the City has agreed to
accept ownership of said pipes and structures in which case said pipes and
structures shall be located in a separate storm sewer easement. In cases where
the responsible party(s) fail to perform necessary maintenance as required by
the City, the stormwater detention easement shall allow the City to make any
necessary repairs or maintenance and assess the responsible party(s) for such
work. Where a detention basin is maintained by multiple lots or parcels, said
assessment shall be prorated to all responsible property owners by the City
Engineer based on the area and use of each lot or parcel, whether or not the
shared maintenance responsibilities are under the control of an owners’
association, unless otherwise stipulated in the easement document. The
maintenance agreement shall require annual reporting to the Public Works
Director to ensure compliance with the agreement. Covenants shall not be
considered an acceptable alternative to an easement.
   H.   Surface Water Flowage/Drainage. Easements for surface water flowage
shall also include storm sewers, subdrains, and appurtenances thereto as a
permitted purpose and use, in the event that storm sewers may be necessary at
some future date. Surface water flowage easement shall require the property
owner to maintain all embankments and make repairs related to erosion and shall
grant the City the right, but not the obligation, to remove drainage
obstructions. Based on prior approval of the Public Works Director, such
easements may permit fences to be constructed provided the design of the fence
includes appropriate gaps or clearance below the fence allowing for proper flow
of drainage within the easement area.
   I.   Wastewater Treatment Facility Buffer. A buffer easement and agreement
shall be provided for all areas located with 1,000 feet of the City’s
wastewater treatment facility or planned future facilities. Such easement and
agreement shall include a waiver of separation distance for each lot located
wholly or partially within said 1,000 feet buffer area. Such easement and
agreement shall be recorded in such a manner that it will appear on the title
opinion of each lot located wholly or partially within said 1,000 feet buffer
area.
   J.   Other easements as may be deemed necessary by the City to sustain the
development or public facilities.
17.   Benchmarks and Datum Plane. The developer shall cause all subdivision and
lot corners, points of curvature, et al., to be installed in accordance with
the Code of Iowa. The developer shall cause a minimum of one permanent
benchmark to be set, certified, and made of record by a land surveyor who is
licensed in the state as part of the subdivision improvements for a plat of
subdivision, unless the City Engineer determines that sufficient benchmarks
exist within the general vicinity.
   A.   All survey, plats, construction drawings, GIS, and CAD files shall use
survey feet based on the State Plane survey feet/Iowa North Coordinate System.
   B.   All survey elevations and construction drawings shall be based on
benchmarks established on the North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD
1988).
170.09   CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
1.   All construction shall be in accordance with SUDAS, as defined herein, and
applicable state and City codes.
2.   Pre-construction Conference and Permits. A pre-construction conference
shall be scheduled by the City Engineer and attended by the developer’s
engineer, contractors and subcontractors, and others as deemed appropriate. The
developer is encouraged to attend said conference. The developer’s engineer
shall provide a copy of all approved permits to the City Engineer prior to the
pre-construction conference being scheduled, unless otherwise approved by the
City Engineer, provided; however, that construction shall not commence until
the appropriate permits have been approved by the applicable federal, State, or
local agency.
   A.   The developer and his or her contractors shall be responsible for
ensuring construction is in conformance with the approved construction
drawings, SUDAS, and project-specific information provided to the contractors
or discussed at the pre-construction conference, including, but not limited to,
the contractor check list.
   B.   No grading permit shall be issued for any property that the developer
intends to subdivide until the preliminary plat has been approved by City
Council and construction or snow fence has been installed in accordance with
said plat.
3.   Construction Observation. Construction observation is deemed necessary to
assure quality workmanship on all portions of the construction of plat
improvements. Construction observation services shall be provided by the City
Engineer. The developer shall be responsible for all costs associated with
construction observation and testing services. The results from all tests
required by SUDAS shall be bound into a construction observation record and
provided to the City Engineer for review. Moisture and density test locations
shall be indicated on a map for reference and to confirm sufficiency of the
number and location of such tests; all included in the construction observation
record. All storm sewers and sanitary sewers shall be televised and the City
Engineer or authorized representative shall review the video of such televising
and make a written report recommending any repairs to be made to said sewers
prior to City acceptance of the project; said report to be included in the
construction observation report along with a digital copy of all televising,
and re-televising if necessary. Once all construction has been completed,
including necessary repairs and punch list work generated from a walk-through
of the completed subdivision improvements, the professional engineer shall
certify that construction of the public improvements has been completed in
substantial conformance with the approved construction drawings and
specifications and in accordance with SUDAS.
4.   Materials Submittals and Shop Drawings. The developer’s engineer shall
review all materials submittals and shop drawings provided by the contractor
and require revisions as necessary to ensure compliance with SUDAS and project
specifications. A copy of all materials submittals and shop drawings, stamped
as accepted by the developer’s engineer, shall be provided to the City
Engineer.
5.   Performance Surety. The developer shall complete all subdivision
improvements to the full satisfaction of the City Engineer and shall be ready
for acceptance prior to City Council approval of the final plat.
   A.   In certain unique circumstances, the developer may request approval of
the final plat prior to completion of the public improvements provided the
developer posts a performance surety (“surety”) with the City to guarantee that
the uncompleted subdivision improvements will be satisfactorily completed
within not more than one calendar year after the date of the City Council’s
approval of the final plat. The posting of surety shall not be deemed to
constitute or ensure the City’s acceptance of any improvements, either upon
posting of the surety or at any future date; approve the issuance of building
permits, or of certificates of zoning compliance or occupancy; or approve the
expenditure of City funds within any part of the subdivision.
   B.   The surety shall be provided in the form of a performance or
subdivision bond, letter of credit, cash escrow held in City trust account, or
other collateral that is acceptable to City Attorney and approved by the City
Council, and shall be of an amount that the City Engineer determines to be
necessary and sufficient to cover all of the City’s costs for constructing the
uncompleted subdivision improvements, including inspections and tests that
customarily would be conducted by the City, at some future date.  
   C.   The surety shall remain in full force and effect until the subdivision
improvements have been completed to the satisfaction of the City Engineer, and
have been accepted by the City Council, provided that surety may be called by
the City for any subdivision improvements that have not been completed within
six years after the date of City Council approval of a final plat without any
further finding beyond the factual passing of such date, and further provided
that surety that is not called at such time shall not be deemed to have been
released or voided. Maintenance bonds for completed work shall be provided in
accordance with subsection 6 of this section.
   D.   Sidewalk surety. Separate surety shall be provided for all public
sidewalks that have not been constructed at the time of final plat approval.
The surety for sidewalks along arterial streets shall be based on 100 percent
of the total cost of installation, including inspection and testing and shall
be in the form of cash escrow only. Surety for sidewalks along collector and
local street frontages of lots being platted shall be calculated at 15 percent
of the total cost of installation, including inspection and testing. The surety
shall guarantee that all sidewalks that are not constructed within four years
of final plat approval shall be constructed within 90 days unless an extension
is granted due to weather. The 15 percent surety shall remain in place until
the value of the uncompleted sidewalks is reduced to the value of the surety.
At that point, the value of the surety can be reduced as sidewalks are
completed. Sidewalk surety shall not be totally released until all sidewalks in
the plat are completed.
6.   Maintenance Bonds.
   A.   The developer shall be responsible for ensuring their contractors
warrant the design, material, workmanship, installation and construction of all
of the subdivision improvements for a minimum of four years from and after
satisfactory completion and City Council acceptance of roadway payment,
sanitary sewers, storm sewers and other public improvements that are related to
drainage, and park infrastructure, and shall cause the warranty to be ensured
by independent bond or by other collateral that is found to be acceptable by
City Attorney (herein “bond”). The bond shall specifically ensure the expedient
repair or replacement of any and all improvements that the City Engineer finds
to be defective following completion and acceptance, and shall indemnify and
hold the City harmless from any and all costs or losses resulting from,
attributed to, or otherwise arising from the defective improvements. The start
date of the maintenance bond shall be the date of City Council resolution
accepting the public improvements.
   B.   The City Council may, based on the recommendation of the City Engineer,
require any bond to run for a duration of more than four years, and to be
posted in a greater amount, in lieu of immediate replacement and reconstruction
of any improvement that is not fully compliant.
7.   Acceptance of Completed Public Improvements.
   A.   Provision of record drawings as required by Section
170.11, Subsection 3 of this Code of Ordinances, including digital ArcView
shapefiles of Record Drawings, GPS coordinates for all utility fixtures and
service stubs, and the developer’s engineer’s certification the as-built
subdivision is in compliance with the approved stormwater management plan and
grading plan.
   B.   Signed statement by a public land surveyor licensed in the State
certifying that all property corners have been set and grading has been
completed according to the design approved by the City.
   C.   Provision of maintenance bonds as required by Section
170.09, Subsection 6 of this Code of Ordinances for completed public
improvements.
   D.   Provision of an agreement to complete as required by Section
170.08, Subparagraph 9(F) of this chapter obligating the developer to certify
grading of City-owned detention facilities or pond, if any, at the time the
subdivision is considered 80 percent developed.
   E.   Provision of construction observation record as required by Subsection
3 of this section and materials submittals and shop drawings as required by
Subsection 4 of this section.
   F.   Provision of a service located table listing the location of the end of
the water service stub, sanitary sewer service stub, and storm sewer service
stub serving each lot within the subdivision as measured from the nearest lot
corner. A 2x4 board shall be buried at the end of each sanitary sewer and sump
service line, installed from the end of the pipe invert up to the surface of
the ground.
   G.   Payment in full of all fees associated with the plat of subdivision,
including but not limited to fees related to construction observation services
and testing.
170.10   NEIGHBORHOOD SKETCH PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
1.   When required by the City Administrator or City Engineer, the developer
shall provide a neighborhood sketch plan prior to platting the property. The
purpose of the Neighborhood Sketch Plan is to show conceptually on a drawing
how a proposed plat or subdivision will be compatible with the potential
development of adjoining lands in a manner that is compliant with the
Comprehensive Plan, other approved Neighborhood Sketch Plans or concept plans,
zoning regulations, the requirements of this chapter, and other applicable land
use plans, policies, and regulations of the City.
2.   The boundary of the overall area to be covered by the Neighborhood Sketch
Plan shall be as required by the City Engineer.
3.   Applications shall be made in the number of copies and format as set forth
in Section
170.05, Subsection 10 of this Code of Ordinances.
4.   Contents of the Neighborhood Sketch Plan (“sketch plan”).
   A.   Name and address of the developer and plan preparer.
   B.   A plan showing the location and boundary of the proposed subdivision
and other properties to be included the sketch plan; the name and address of
the developer, property owners within sketch plan limits, and property owners
abutting the sketch plan boundary, zoning classification of properties within
and abutting the sketch plan; existing and proposed land use of properties
within and abutting the sketch plan.
   C.   A plan showing existing and proposed buildings, and planned use of all
buildings, existing and proposed streets and classification of same,
recreational trails, parks, open space, and buffers.
   D.   A grading plan including existing grades, based on LiDAR or USGS, based
on a contour interval no greater than 10 feet; proposed grades at like
interval; general location of floodway, floodway fringe, drainage ways,
detention basins, and similar existing and proposed features.
   E.   A utility plan indicating the existing and proposed water mains and
sanitary sewers, of sufficient detail to clarify how each property within the
sketch plan will be served and applicable sanitary sewer service areas.
   F.   The sketch plan shall be drawn and printed at a scale that is not
smaller than one inch = 100 feet. Each plan sheet shall include a date of
preparation, date of revision, north arrow, and scale.
170.11   PLAT OF SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
Applications for approval of a subdivision shall be submitted to the City
Clerk, and shall include all plats, drawings, illustrations, plans, documents,
and information that the City Engineer determines to be necessary to ensure
that the proposed subdivision will comply with this Code and all other
applicable codes and regulations, including, but not limited to, the following,
in addition to payment of all fees specified by this chapter for the type of
subdivision and any other administrative costs and impact fees that may be
legally established by the City Council. 
1.   Preliminary Plat
   A.   Preliminary plats shall be submitted for entire subdivisions, even if
the developer intends to final plat the subdivision in more than one phase. If
approved by the City Engineer, exceptions may be made for parcels that are more
than 160 acres in area or that have unique characteristics. By this requirement
the City intends to ensure that every subdivision will, in its entirety, be
optimized in all respects to protect and increase property values and public
health, safety, and welfare presently and in the future, particularly by
optimizing vehicular and pedestrian circulation systems; the extension of
infrastructure to establish connectivity at an early date, and facilitate the
subdivision and development of other properties; and the locations and
improvement of parks and open spaces, to efficiently serve and satisfy the
needs of the subdivision and of the public as a whole.
   B.   One purpose of a preliminary plat is to determine whether the proposed
subdivision appears to comply in preliminary, conceptual form with the
requirements of this Code and its design standards. Accordingly, plat maps and
drawings for the proposed subdivision are not required to be of construction-
quality, but shall be of sufficient accuracy and detail to enable the City and
its staff to determine whether the proposed subdivision appears to comply. The
City hereby reserves final and binding determinations of compliance to rest
with the City Engineer’s review and approval of the detailed plans and
specifications for the subdivision improvements, and with the City Council’s
approval of a final plat.
   C.   Applications shall be made in the number of copies and format as set
forth in Section
170.05, Subsection 10 of this chapter.
   D.   Contents of the Preliminary Plat. Multiple plan sheets to clearly
convey the required information, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   A cover sheet containing the name of subdivision, name and address
of the property owner and developer, legal description for the real property
that is proposed to be subdivided, area of subdivision, professional
certifications, vicinity map, zoning classification of the property with
boundary lines between districts where applicable, and other project
information that may be pertinent to review as determined by the City Engineer.
      (2)   The vicinity map shall be at a legible scale that shows the
boundaries of all parcels located within 300 feet of the plat boundary, land
use and zoning of all parcels, parcel address for each parcel, property owner
names for each parcel along with address if different than parcel address.
      (3)   A dimension plan, including lot and outlot dimensions, areas, and
building envelopes; intended purpose for each outlot; required easements,
setbacks, street rights-of-way and roadway widths; access controls;
recreational trails, sidewalks and ramps; buffer locations; designations of
parcels and rights-of-way that are proposed to be dedicated to the City, other
governmental entity or for common ownership and use by persons as designated by
the plat documents that are included in the preliminary plat submittal.
         a.   Bearing and distance data, with curve data provided in a table,
shall be provided for the subdivision boundary and for each planned phase, if
phasing is proposed.
         b.   Pavement thickness and reinforcing materials shall be noted.
         c.   Access restrictions, such as no private driveways shall be
permitted to connect to arterial or collector streets, must be noted on the
preliminary plat. Single-family lots shall be limited to no more than one
driveway, except on certain corner lots.
         d.   All existing streets and driveways on the opposite side of the
existing public or private street from the subdivision shall be shown for
review of access spacing and alignment. Existing street centerlines and lane
lines shall be shown.
         e.   Existing sidewalks shall be shown to ensure proper extension.
      (4)   A grading plan, including proposed overland drainage routes,
detention basins, aquifer recharge areas, and erosion control measures.
Floodway and floodway fringe boundaries, base flood elevations (“BFE”), minimum
floor elevations (MFE) as defined and required by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (“FEMA”), together with any areas of localized flooding or
wetland. If no FEMA-determined flood hazard areas, areas of localized flooding
or wetlands existing within the subdivision plan, the developer’s engineer
shall certify on the preliminary plat that no such areas exist. The City
Engineer may require minimum opening elevations (MOE) to be defined where lots
may be impacted by detention or drainage facilities based upon one foot above
the HWL during 100-year storm event.
         a.   Existing features, including buildings, wells, septic system,
shall be shown on the grading plan. A demolition plan may be required to
clarify intent.
         b.   The subdivision shall be designed to preserve existing trees to
the extent possible in accordance with
Chapter 151, Trees. Existing trees and tree driplines shall be shown. Trees to
be removed shall be identified. Trees to be protected shall be identified and
delineated by construction fence or snow fence, unless otherwise approved by
City Council.
         c.   The concept for drainage and detention should be illustrated on
the grading plan.
         d.   Proposed grading for parks and trails shall be shown on the
grading plan.
      (5)   A utility plan indicating the existing and proposed water mains and
fire hydrants, sanitary sewers, and storm sewers; including size of each. The
utility plan may be combined with the grading plan if the proposed subdivision
is not of such size, complexity, or nature as to necessitate separate sheets to
appropriately depict such improvements.
         (a)   The source of water supply and wastewater disposal service shall
be noted. Storm sewers and stormwater management facilities shall be denoted as
public or private.
      (6)   Each plan sheet shall include the boundary of the plat of
subdivision in a heavy line and, if phasing is proposed, the boundaries of each
phase shall be clearly marked on all sheets.
      (7)   The preliminary plat shall be drawn and printed at a scale that is
not smaller than one inch = 50 feet. Each plan sheet shall include a date of
preparation, date of revision, north arrow, and scale.
      (8)   The preliminary plat shall be certified by a professional engineer
licensed in the State.
   E.   Accompanying documents. Accompanying documents and information shall
include:
      (1)   Payment in full of all fees in accordance with Section
170.13 of this chapter or as subsequently set by resolution of the City
Council, together with payment of any other administrative costs and impact
fees that may be legally established by City Council.
      (2)   A letter, signed by the developer and his engineer, requesting that
City Council waive each of the proposed variations from the regulations
included in this Code, including but not limited to design standards specified
in Section
170.08. Variations indicated on the plans but not formally requested in said
letter shall not be deemed as granted. A traffic study may be required at the
sole discretion of the City Engineer, for such matters and of such scope that
may be directed by the City Engineer.
      (3)   Soil tests and geotechnical report shall be required to ascertain
whether expansive soils or other conditions exist that may affect the
suitability and design of the subdivision and subdivision improvements, which
have been certified by a professional engineer licensed in the State.
2.   Construction Drawings
   A.   Applications shall be made in the number of copies and format as set
forth in Section
170.05, Subsection 10 of this chapter.
   B.   The submittal shall include all drawings, plans, profiles,
specifications and references to SUDAS, special conditions, and supplemental
information for all proposed subdivision improvements and shall be certified by
a professional engineer licensed in the State.
   C.   The developer’s engineer shall be solely responsible and liable for
ensuring that the construction drawings and specifications are fully compliant
with the requirements of this chapter and all other applicable requirements and
permits in accordance with Section
170.05(3)B(7) herein.
   D.   The submittal shall include a stormwater management plan in conformance
with SUDAS and shall be certified by a professional engineer licensed in the
State.
   E.   The submittal shall include a public streetlight layout plan that is
designed based on the City’s streetlight design standards; including fixture
type, mounting height, pole type, and pole height; as appropriate. The
streetlight layout plan can be a separate plan, rather than included in the
plan set for the public improvements, provided the public streetlights will be
installed by the service provider rather the developer’s contractor.
   F.   In cases where a landscape buffer or other plant materials are required
in accordance with the Zoning Ordinance or approved master plan or preliminary
plat, the construction drawings shall include a planting plan detailing the
location, species, and size at planting, and size at maturity of all plant
materials. Plant materials shall be installed as a subdivision improvement or
their installation guaranteed by a performance surety.
   G.   The construction drawings shall be drawn and printed at a horizontal
scale that is not smaller than one inch equals 50 feet and, where applicable, a
vertical scale that is not smaller than one inch equals five feet. Each plan
sheet shall include a date of preparation, date of revision, north arrow, and
scale.
   H.   Payment in full of all fees related to the review of the construction
drawings, stormwater management plan, and all supplemental information by the
City Engineer or his authorized agent in accordance with Section
170.13 of this chapter or as subsequently set by resolution of the City
Council.
   I.   The submittal shall include a copy of the application forms for all
required permits including, but not limited to, permits from Iowa Department of
Natural Resources and Iowa Department of Transportation for review and approval
by the City Engineer. The developer shall be solely responsible for obtaining
approval of all necessary federal, state, and local permits.
3.   Record Drawings.
   A.   As-built record drawings shall be submitted for approval by the City
Engineer prior to acceptance of the public improvement by the City Council.
   B.   Record drawings require certification by a professional engineer
licensed in the State.
   C.   Record drawings, in ArcView shapefiles format and pdf format, shall
include and note the as-built coordinates and elevation of the following
features: water valves, fire hydrants, sanitary sewer manholes, lift station
wet wells, storm sewer manholes, storm sewer intakes, each end of culverts,
flared-end-sections, and outlets.
   D.   Certified as-built grading drawings shall be submitted verifying the
as-built elevations of critical locations on the site, to include verification
of all spot elevations shown on the public improvement construction drawings;
including but not limited to the rear corners, the mid-point of the side yard
lines, the front lot corners where the stormwater flows from the rear yard to
the front yard, overflow locations, and along the proposed drainage ways and
easements; sanitary sewer manholes; and all stormwater management facilities
including but not limited to detention areas, intakes, structures, sub-drain
cleanouts, and flared end sections; are in compliance with the approved grading
plan. The as-built grading drawings shall include spot elevations along the
flowline of drainage swales and ditches at each property line and sufficient
spot elevations to confirm detention volume.
   E.   Elevations shall be within two-tenths feet of the approved grading
plan. The location of all utility fixtures and the end of all utility service
lines shall be labeled with survey-grade coordinates.
   F.   A certification statement signed by the applicant’s engineer and land
surveyor indicating that the grading and stormwater management facilities were
constructed as designed and in accordance with the approved construction
drawings and Stormwater Management Plan shall also be submitted.
4.   Final Plat.
   A.   Applications shall be made in the number of copies and format as set
forth in Section
170.05, Subsection 10 of this chapter. The developer shall be responsible for
additional copies for approval as may be required by the County for recording
purposes.
   B.   Contents of the Final Plat. The final plat application shall at a
minimum consist of the following to be considered to be a complete submittal,
provided; however, that the City Engineer allow minor exceptions that preserve
the intent and purpose of the submittal:
      (1)   The name under which the subdivision will be recorded, compass
point, scale, property owner’s name and address, applicant’s name and address,
engineer’s or land surveyor’s name and address, and date;
      (2)   Complete metes-and-bounds legal description of the area being
platted, including acreage, with boundary depicted by a heavy line and said
boundary shall be accurately tied to a minimum of two section corners;
      (3)   All proposed monumentation as required by Chapter 354, Code of
Iowa, shall be designated on the plat and a legend provided describing said
monuments and the date the monuments were or will be set;
      (4)   All parcels of land that are to be dedicated to the City or an
owners’ association for street or alley rights-of-way, walkways, parks or open
space, school property, or other public uses shall be clearly shown, labeled
with a lot letter and lot area, and described by bearings and dimensions, and
the plat shall include a certified statement by the proprietor that said
parcels are intended for and being dedicated by the proprietor for such uses;
      (5)   All parcels of land that are to be considered as buildable lots
shall be clearly shown, labeled with a lot number and lot area, and described
by bearings and dimensions;
      (6)   All parcels of land that are intended to be set aside for future
development, or are considered undevelopable, and shall not be considered
buildable lots until said parcel has been re-platted shall be clearly shown,
labeled with an outlot letter and lot area, and described by bearings and
dimensions;
      (7)   Setback lines shall be shown along the street frontages of all lots
and outlots, and any other locations where deemed appropriate by the City
Engineer, at locations that are equal to or greater than the minimum setback
requirements of the Zoning Code;
      (8)   All existing and proposed easements shall be clearly drawn and
labeled, and the centerlines or boundaries thereof shall be described by
dimensions and bearings for each segment, with book and page noted for existing
easements;
      (9)   Floodway and floodway fringe boundaries, base flood elevations
(BFE), minimum floor elevations (MFE), minimum opening elevations (MOE) and
other minimum or maximum elevations as may be required by the City Engineer
shall be noted for each lot on the final plat or engineer’s exhibit;
      (10)   Access and other restrictions imposed by the City shall be noted
for each lot; and
      (11)   The final plat shall be certified by a public land surveyor
licensed in the State. When the final plat or an attached exhibit contains
information related to engineering items, said plat or exhibit shall be
certified by a professional engineer licensed in the State.
   C.   Accompanying documents. Accompanying documents and information shall
include the following, all properly executed and notarized as may be
appropriate to the document:
      (1)   An application fee, in the amount in accordance with Section
170.13 of this chapter or as subsequently set by resolution of the City
Council, together with payment of any other administrative costs and impact
fees that may be enabled by the Code of Iowa and legally established by the
City Council;
      (2)   Warranty deeds for all street rights-of-ways and other parcels that
are to be dedicated to the City, and quit claim deeds for all existing street
rights-of-way that adjoin the subdivision and that are not clearly held by the
City in fee simple title, all said deeds to be submitted on a form acceptable
to the City Attorney;
      (3)   Easements documents and other legal documents using the City’s
standard forms for such purposes, if available, to establish easements for
shared accesses, public or common private infrastructure including walkways and
similar purposes; to create an owners’ association or similar entity, if
determined to be necessary to own, possess, operate or maintain common private
infrastructure; hold-harmless agreements; development agreements; and other
purposes as deemed necessary to fully comply with this Code;
      (4)   Maintenance bonds for all subdivision improvements that have been
completed to the full satisfaction of the City Engineer, and surety for any
subdivision improvements that are incomplete;
      (5)   Sidewalk bond for all sidewalks not constructed as a subdivision
improvement;
      (6)   Engineering exhibit, if applicable, for recordation with the final
plat;
      (7)   Prior acceptance of the completed public improvements or approved
surety or agreement to complete as specified in this chapter;
      (8)   Payment for all fees and charges due to the City for inspection of
the subdivision improvements and review of the subdivision improvement plans
and specifications; connection fees and other impact fees; assessments for
streets and other improvements; reimbursements for water mains; and any other
costs and financial obligations have been paid in full;
      (9)   Documentation showing that the developer has arranged and paid for
the installation of streetlights, street name and traffic-control signs; and
      (10)   All attachments to subdivision plats as required by Chapter 354.11
of the Code of Iowa or contents of declaration as required by Chapter 499B.4 of
the Code of Iowa, development agreements, covenants and declarations
establishing an owners’ association, and any other attachments, declarations,
certifications, or other documents that may be required as a matter of the
filing of a plat whether by the Code or the City, have been submitted to, and
reviewed and approved by the City Administrator.
170.12   PLAT OF SURVEY OR ACQUSITION PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
1.   Applications shall include payment of all fees in accordance with Section
170.13 of this Code of Ordinances or as subsequently set by resolution of City
Council, together with payment of any other administrative costs and impact
fees that may be legally established by City Council.
2.   Applications shall be made in the number of copies and format as set forth
in Section
170.05, Subsection 10 of this Code of Ordinances.
3.   The plat of survey or acquisition plat shall be an exact duplicate of the
plat proposed to be filed for record in the County Recorder’s office.
4.   The City Engineer may require any remnant parcels to be platted as part of
the plat of survey in order to ensure said remnant parcels shall conform to the
Zoning Code and other applicable codes after the parcel is subdivided.
5.   Contents of the Plat of Survey or Acquisition Plat. The plat shall comply
with the Code of Iowa, specifically Chapter 354, and including, but not limited
to:
   A.   A parcel letter or number designation approved by the County Auditor. A
lot designation of any street right-of-way to be platted.
   B.   The names and addresses of the proprietors.
   C.   A heavy line indicating the boundaries of each parcel; addresses for
each parcel; a legal description for each parcel including distances, bearings,
boundary angles, and curve data in a table; total area of each parcel in
acreage and square feet; and front yard setbacks, and rear yard setback.
   D.   Bar graph scale and compass point; current zoning districts.
   E.   Street name, location, right-of-way width, and centerline of all
streets within or adjoining the plat.
   F.   Existing features, including but not limited to buildings, wells, and
septic systems, and dimensions as necessary to demonstrate compliance with
setbacks and other Zoning Code requirements.
   G.   Floodway and floodway fringe boundaries, base flood elevations (BFE),
and minimum floor elevations (MFE) shall be accurately and clearly plotted on
the plat of survey from the best available information, as defined and required
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). If no FEMA-determined flood
hazard areas, areas of localized flooding or wetlands exist within the plat,
the developer shall so certify on the plat.
   H.   Existing and proposed easements in accordance with this chapter.
   I.   Access restrictions and other restrictions shall be noted for each
parcel.
   J.   Certification by a public land surveyor licensed in the State, date of
survey, and revision dates.
170.13   FEES.
1.   Application Fee. An application fee shall be paid for each development
application in an amount that shall be established from time to time by
resolution of the City Council. A check, payable to the City, shall be
submitted to the City Clerk at the time of initial submittal of the
application.
2.   Engineering Review Fees. The developer shall be responsible for
reimbursing the City for the cost of reasonable professional fees for services
provided by a consulting engineer designated by the City for their review of
preliminary plats, final plats, plats of survey, acquisition plats, auditor’s
plat, construction drawings, stormwater management plans, geotechnical reports,
engineering exhibits, legal descriptions, and similar documents prepared by the
applicant’s engineer or surveyor. A check, payable to the City, shall be
submitted to the City Clerk prior to final approval of the development
application that was reviewed.
3.   Traffic Impact Study. When a Traffic Impact Study is required, the
developer shall be responsible for reimbursing the City for the cost of
reasonable professional fees for services provided by a consulting engineer
designated by the City, based on a scope of services approved by the City
Engineer. A check, payable to the City, shall be submitted to the City Clerk
prior to any work being commenced on said study.
4.   Construction Observation Fees. The developer shall be responsible for
reimbursing the City for the cost of reasonable professional fees for services
provided by the City Engineer or consultant designated by the City for
construction observation of the public improvements as depicted on the
construction drawing prepared and certified by the applicant’s engineer, review
of all testing and results, and making a recommendation to City Council
regarding acceptance of the public improvements. A check, payable to the City,
shall be submitted to the City Clerk prior to City Council acceptance of the
public improvements for the subdivision.
5.   City Attorney Review Fees. The developer shall be responsible for
reimbursing the City for the cost of reasonable professional fees provided by
the City Attorney for their preparation or review of various legal documents
associated with the Development Application, including but not limited to
development agreements, warranty deeds, title opinions, mortgage and lien
holder releases, consents to plat, easement documents, performance and
maintenance bonds or sureties, and similar documents prepared by the
applicant’s attorney. A check, payable to the City, shall be submitted to the
City Clerk prior to final approval of the development application or document
that was reviewed.
6.   Recording Fees. The developer shall be responsible for recording the final
plat and all accompanying material including but not limited to easement
documents and agreements. If the City Administrator deems it necessary for the
City Clerk to record any documents, the developer shall pay to the City all
costs for recording said documents prior to issuance of building permits.
7.   Street Signs. The developer shall be responsible for reimbursing the City
for the cost of all street signs installed in the subdivision by the City
Public Works Department. A check, payable to the City, shall be submitted to
the City Clerk prior to City Council acceptance of the public improvements.
8.   Non-refundable. Fees paid to the City in accordance with this section
shall not be refunded after the initial submittal has been distributed to
various City departments for review or other costs have been incurred by the
City. Denial of approval of a development project shall not entitle the
applicant to a refund.
170.14   VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
1.   Whenever the tract proposed to be subdivided is characterized by unique
and unusual topography, size, or shape, or is surrounded by such development or
unusual conditions that the strict application of the requirements contained in
this chapter would result in substantial hardships or injustices that are not
self-created by the developer, the City Council, upon recommendation of the
Commission, may vary or modify such requirements so that the subdivider is
allowed to develop the property in a reasonable manner; but so, at the same
time, the public welfare and interest of the City and surrounding area are
protected and the general intent and the spirit of this chapter are preserved.
2.   Any such variation or exception shall be limited to the minimum relief
that is necessary for a subdivision that creates lots for reasonable
development of the real property. Variations or exceptions that may be
indicated on the plans but have not been formally requested shall not be
considered as approved.
3.   The request for such variation or exception shall be provided by the
developer in writing and filed with the City Engineer prior to or concurrently
with the filing of a preliminary plat. The request shall be reviewed by the
City Administrator and City Engineer, and a joint recommendation made to the
Planning and Zoning Commission as part of the staff report for action on the
preliminary plat, or in like manner if filed prior to the preliminary plat.
4.   The Commission shall act on the request concurrently with the preliminary
plat, or in like manner if filed prior to the preliminary plat, and the
Commission and staff recommendations shall be forwarded to the City Council for
consideration and action concurrently with the preliminary plat, or in like
manner if filed prior to the preliminary plat.
170.15   VALIDITY AND EXPIRATION.
1.   Validity of Preliminary Plat.
   A.   A preliminary plat that has been approved in accordance with this Code
shall remain valid for two calendar years after the date upon which the City
Council approved the preliminary plat, and its validity and approval shall
thereafter expire unless a final plat has been submitted in accordance with
this section expressly, and in accordance with this Code as a whole, or unless
a time extension has been approved in the manner provided by this section.
   B.   During its time of validity, the developer shall cause construction
drawings for subdivision improvements to be prepared and submitted for review
and approval by the City Engineer, and a final plat to be filed for one or more
phases of the preliminary plat as had been designated on the approved plat, or
for the entire preliminary plat.
2.   Expiration of Preliminary Plat.
   A.   Failure to file a proper and complete final plat submittal with the
City Engineer within two calendar years from the date of approval of the
preliminary plat shall render said preliminary plat approval null and void,
unless the preliminary plat’s validity has been extended in accordance with
this section.
   B.   A final plat submittal shall not be deemed to be properly filed unless
the City Council has first approved the construction drawings for subdivision
improvements for the real property that is included in the final plat. It shall
be the developer’s duty to ensure said plans and specifications are filed with
the City Engineer sufficiently in advance of the preliminary plat’s expiration
to enable the plans and specifications to be reviewed and revised to whatever
extent that may be necessary to attain full compliance with all applicable
requirements and approval by the City Council upon recommendation of the City
Engineer.
   C.   Time Extension for a Preliminary Plat.
      (1)   The approval and recording of a final plat for one phase of a valid
preliminary plat shall be deemed to automatically extend the validity and
approval of the remainder of the preliminary plat for a period of one calendar
year beyond the date of the City Council’s approval of such final plat. For
plats having more than two phases, the validity of the preliminary plat shall
be automatically extended one year each time the City Council approves a final
plat within the boundary of the approved preliminary plat.
      (2)   The City Council may, upon request from the developer and following
review and recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission, re-approve and
thereby grant a time extension for a valid preliminary plat, but only if the
preliminary plat and the subdivision improvement plans and specifications are
updated to comply with and conform to all codes, regulations, requirements, and
specifications that have been revised or adopted since the original date of
approval of the preliminary plat.
3.   Expiration of Construction Drawings. Approval of the construction drawings
by resolution of the City Council shall be null and void if construction of the
actual improvements, other than clearing and grading, has not commenced within
one year of the date of said resolution.
4.   Expiration of Final Plat. Approval of a final plat by resolution of the
City Council, the developer shall fully satisfy any and all conditions of such
approval and all provisions of this Code and shall cause the final plat to be
properly submitted for filing of record in the offices of the appropriate
County Recorder, Auditor and Assessor, within 180 days of the date of the City
Council’s resolution; noncompliance shall render the City Council’s approval
and resolution to be null and void.
5.   Expiration of Plat of Survey or Acquisition Plat. Approval of a plat of
survey or acquisition plat by resolution of the City Council, the developer
shall fully satisfy any and all conditions of such approval and all provisions
of this Code, and shall cause the plat to be properly submitted for filing of
record in the offices of the appropriate County Recorder, Auditor, and
Assessor, within 180 days of the date of the City Council’s resolution;
noncompliance shall render the City Council’s approval and resolution to be
null and void.
170.16   VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
1.   Serial or chain land divisions, whereby three or more interests are
created from a single parcel of land or other corporal real property through
two or more acts of subdividing a parcel, shall not be allowed, and shall be
deemed a violation of this Code. Such violation shall be remedied only by the
preparation of a Plat of Subdivision covering all of the original, single
parcel of land or other corporal real property and complying with all of the
requirements of this Code for a proprietor’s plat, including, but not limited
to, the construction and dedication of public or common infrastructure;
dedications of right-of-way; mitigation of impacts by dedications, provision of
infrastructure or payment of fees; payment of or otherwise resolving liens,
taxes, judgments, and other encumbrances upon the title; payment of all
customary administrative fees; and full satisfaction of all penalties set forth
in this Code and the Code of Iowa.
2.   Permits shall not be issued for any development, or building or other
structure, on any lot, parcel or other interest that is created by a serial or
chain subdivision, or by any other subdivision that is not fully compliant with
this Code
3.   Permits shall not be issued for any development, building, or structure,
on any lot, parcel or other real property interest that is part of or is being
created by a subdivision, until:
   A.   All subdivision improvements have been satisfactorily completed in
accordance with all development agreements and approved plans and
specifications, as solely determined by the City Engineer;
   B.   All requirements of this Code, including the provision of surety and
maintenance bonds, have been fully satisfied;
   C.   All fees and costs have been paid in full for City services provided to
the subdivision during its development, including, but not limited to, fees for
City inspections and reimbursement for testing or other costs; and
   D.   The subdivision and accompanying documents have been properly and
satisfactorily filed for record in the offices of the appropriate County
Recorder, Auditor, and Assessor.
4.   No certificate of occupancy or of zoning compliance shall be issued unless
and until the subdivision has been properly recorded and public improvements
accepted in full compliance with this Code.
5.   No plat, declaration or other instrument for any subdivision shall be
submitted to the Grundy County Recorder, Auditor, or Assessor for recording, or
have any validity, unless and until the City Engineer certifies in writing that
the plat, declaration or instrument has been found to be in full compliance
with the requirements of this Code. City funds shall not be expended for
improvements to or maintenance of any street or other infrastructure that
directly serves a subdivision that is in violation of this Code, or that has
not been accepted by the City as public infrastructure.
6.   Any subdivision that is filed and recorded in violation of this Code shall
be subject to annulment under the provisions of Section 354.20 of the Code of
Iowa.
7.   Streets and alleys that are created by a subdivision shall not be open for
public access until the plat has been made an official plat, or at any time
thereafter unless and until the street has been fully improved in accordance
with this Code and said improvements have been accepted by the City Council,
for public safety reasons.
8.   Penalty. Any violation of any of the terms or conditions of this Code, or
any failure to comply with any of its requirements, shall constitute a civil
infraction or misdemeanor and shall be accordingly subject to fines or
imprisonment in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Iowa, in addition
to the remedies, restrictions, limitations, and enforcement set forth in
§159.16. Each day a violation exists may be considered a new and separate
infraction or misdemeanor.
