CODE OF ORDINANCES
OF THE
CITY OF ROCKWELL CITY, IOWA
Adopted February 3, 2025, by Ordinance No. 392
 
Prepared By: Local Government Professional Services, Inc.
DBA Iowa Codification
P. O. Box 244
114 E 5th Street
Storm Lake, Iowa 50588
(641) 355-4072
www.sc-ic.com
SUPPLEMENT RECORD
SUPPLEMENT                         ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends, or Adds Ord. No. Date Subject
SUPPLEMENT                         ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends, or Adds Ord. No. Date Subject
 
CHAPTER 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES
 
1.01 Title                  1.08 Amendments
1.02 Definitions            1.09 Catchlines and Notes
1.03 City Powers            1.10 Altering Code
1.04 Indemnity              1.11 Severability
1.05 Personal Injuries      1.12 Warrants
1.06 Rules of Construction  1.13 General Standards for Action
1.07 Extension of Authority 1.14 Standard Penalty
 
1.01   TITLE.
This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Rockwell City, Iowa.
1.02   DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in this Code of Ordinances are defined in the Code
of Iowa, such definitions apply to their use in this Code of Ordinances unless
such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council
or repugnant to the context of the provision. Other words and phrases used
herein have the following meanings, unless specifically defined otherwise in
another portion of this Code of Ordinances or unless such construction would be
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council or repugnant to the
context of the provision:
   1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street, affording
secondary means of access to abutting property.
   2.   “City” means the city of Rockwell City, Iowa.
   3.   “Clerk” means the city clerk of Rockwell City, Iowa.
   4.   “Code” means the specific chapter of this Code of Ordinances in which a
specific subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such as the
Building Code or a standard code adopted by reference).
   5.   “Code of Ordinances” means the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Rockwell City, Iowa.
   6.   “Council” means the city council of Rockwell City, Iowa.
   7.   “County” means Calhoun County, Iowa.
   8.   “IAC” means the Iowa Administrative Code.
   9.   “May” confers a power.
   10.   “Measure” means an ordinance, amendment, resolution, or motion.
   11.   “Must” states a requirement.
   12.   “Occupant” or “tenant,” applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
   13.   “Ordinances” means the ordinances of the City of Rockwell City, Iowa,
as embodied in this Code of Ordinances, ordinances not repealed by the
ordinance adopting this Code of Ordinances, and those enacted hereafter.
   14.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust, or other
legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.
   15.   “Public way” includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.
   16.   “Shall” imposes a duty.
   17.   “Sidewalk” means that surfaced portion of the street between the edge
of the traveled way, surfacing, or curb line and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   18.   “State” means the State of Iowa.
   19.   “Statutes” or “laws” means the latest edition of the Code of Iowa, as
amended.
   20.   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
Words that are not defined in this Code of Ordinances or by the Code of Iowa
have their ordinary meaning unless such construction would be inconsistent with
the manifest intent of the Council, or repugnant to the context of the
provision.
1.03   CITY POWERS.
The City may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if not
inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any power and
perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the rights,
privileges, and property of the City and of its residents, and to preserve and
improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and convenience of its
residents, and each and every provision of this Code of Ordinances shall be
deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and the performance of the
foregoing functions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.1)
1.04   INDEMNITY.
The applicant for any permit or license under this Code of Ordinances, by
making such application, assumes and agrees to pay for any injury to or death
of any person or persons whomsoever, and any loss of or damage to property
whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however arising
from or related to, directly, indirectly, or remotely, the issuance of the
permit or license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of such
applicant, or the agents, employees, or servants of such applicant, to abide by
or comply with any of the provisions of this Code of Ordinances or the terms
and conditions of such permit or license, and such applicant, by making such
application, forever agrees to indemnify the City and its officers, agents, and
employees, and agrees to save them harmless from any and all claims, demands,
lawsuits, or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage, injury, or death,
including all costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason of the foregoing.
The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a part of any permit or
license issued under this Code of Ordinances or any other ordinance of the
City, whether expressly recited therein or not.
1.05   PERSONAL INJURIES.
When action is brought against the City for personal injuries alleged to have
been caused by its negligence, the City may notify in writing any person by
whose negligence it claims the injury was caused. The notice shall state the
pendency of the action, the name of the plaintiff, the name and location of the
court where the action is pending, a brief statement of the alleged facts from
which the cause arose, that the City believes that the person notified is
liable to it for any judgment rendered against the City, and asking the person
to appear and defend. A judgment obtained in the suit is conclusive in any
action by the City against any person so notified, as to the existence of the
defect or other cause of the injury or damage, as to the liability of the City
to the plaintiff in the first named action, and as to the amount of the damage
or injury. The City may maintain an action against the person notified to
recover the amount of the judgment together with all the expenses incurred by
the City in the suit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.14)
1.06   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the rules of statutory
construction as set forth in Chapter 4 of the Code of Iowa shall be utilized to
ascertain the intent of the Council, with the understanding that the term
“statute” as used therein will be deemed to be synonymous with the term
“ordinance” when applied to this Code of Ordinances.
1.07   EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this Code of Ordinances, the provision shall be construed as
authorizing performance by a regular assistant, subordinate, or a duly
authorized designee of said officer or employee.
1.08   AMENDMENTS.
All ordinances that amend, repeal, or in any manner affect this Code of
Ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, subsection, or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.2)
1.09   CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code of Ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section, and subsection), editor’s notes, cross references,
and State law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself,
contained in this Code of Ordinances, do not constitute any part of the law and
are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement, or clarify the contents
of a section.
1.10   ALTERING CODE.
It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this Code of Ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code of
Ordinances in any manner that will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented.
1.11   SEVERABILITY.
If any section, provision, or part of this Code of Ordinances is adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity of
this Code of Ordinances as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof
not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
1.12   WARRANTS.
If consent to enter upon or inspect any building, structure, or property
pursuant to a municipal ordinance is withheld by any person having the lawful
right to exclude, the City officer or employee having the duty to enter upon or
conduct the inspection may apply to the Iowa District Court in and for the
County, pursuant to Section 808.14 of the Code of Iowa, for an administrative
search warrant. No owner, operator or occupant, or any other person having
charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, rooming unit, structure,
building, or premises shall fail or neglect, after presentation of a search
warrant, to permit entry therein by the municipal officer or employee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 808.14)
1.13   GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACTION.
Whenever this Code of Ordinances grants any discretionary power to the Council
or any commission, board, or officer or employee of the City and does not
specify standards to govern the exercise of the power, the power shall be
exercised in light of the following standard: The discretionary power to grant,
deny, or revoke any matter shall be considered in light of the facts and
circumstances then existing and as may be reasonably foreseeable, and due
consideration shall be given to the impact upon the public health, safety and
welfare, and the decision shall be that of a reasonably prudent person under
similar circumstances in the exercise of the police power.
1.14   STANDARD PENALTY.
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this Code of Ordinances for
violation of any particular provision, section, or chapter, any person failing
to perform a duty required by this Code of Ordinances or otherwise violating
any provision of this Code of Ordinances or any rule or regulation adopted
herein by reference shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of at least
$105.00 but not to exceed $855.00. The court may order imprisonment not to
exceed 30 days in lieu of a fine or in addition to a fine. † 1
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[2] and 903.1[1a])
 
Notes
1 † EDITOR’S NOTE: For civil penalty for violations of this Code of Ordinances, see
  Chapter 3.
CHAPTER 2
CHARTER
 
2.01 Title                              2.04 Number and Term of Council
2.02 Form of Government                 2.05 Term of Mayor
2.03 Powers and Duties of City Officers 2.06 Copies on File
 
2.01   TITLE.
This chapter may be cited as the charter of the City of Rockwell City, Iowa.† 2
 
Notes
2 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 233 adopting a charter for the City was passed and
  approved by the Council on June 23, 1975, and was published on July 1, 1975.
2.02   FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
The form of government of the City is the Mayor-Council form of government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
2.03   POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
The Council and Mayor and other City officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by State law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the City.
2.04   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of five Council Members elected at large for overlapping
terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.05   TERM OF MAYOR.
The Mayor is elected for a term of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.06   COPIES ON FILE.
The Clerk shall keep an official copy of the charter on file with the official
records of the Clerk and the Secretary of State, and shall keep copies of the
charter available at the Clerk’s office for public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.1[3])
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
 
3.01 Municipal Infraction    3.04 Civil Citations
3.02 Environmental Violation 3.05 Alternative Relief
3.03 Penalties               3.06 Alternative Penalties
 
3.01   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
A violation of this Code of Ordinances or any ordinance or code herein adopted
by reference or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty required by
the same, with the exception of those provisions specifically provided under
State law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious misdemeanor, or
a simple misdemeanor under Chapters 687 through 747 of the Code of Iowa, is a
municipal infraction punishable by civil penalty as provided herein.† 3
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[3])
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: For criminal penalty for violations of this Code of
3 Ordinances, see Section
  1.14.
3.02   ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATION.
A municipal infraction that is a violation of Chapter 455B of the Code of Iowa
or of a standard established by the City in consultation with the Department of
Natural Resources, or both, may be classified as an environmental violation.
However, the provisions of this section shall not be applicable until the City
has offered to participate in informal negotiations regarding the violation or
to the following specific violations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
   1.   A violation arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment standard or
requirement referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8.
   2.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person not engaged in the industrial
production or manufacturing of grain products.
   3.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person engaged in such industrial production
or manufacturing if such discharge occurs from September 15 to January 15.
3.03   PENALTIES.
A municipal infraction is punishable by the following civil penalties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
   1.   Standard Civil Penalties.
      A.   First offense – not to exceed $750.00.
      B.   Each repeat offense – not to exceed $1,000.00.
   Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a
repeat offense.
   2.   Special Civil Penalties.
      A.   A municipal infraction arising from noncompliance with a
pretreatment standard or requirement, referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8, by an
industrial user is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each
day a violation exists or continues.
      B.   A municipal infraction classified as an environmental violation is
punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each occurrence.
However, an environmental violation is not subject to such penalty if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
         (1)   The violation results solely from conducting an initial startup,
cleaning, repairing, performing scheduled maintenance, testing, or conducting a
shutdown of either equipment causing the violation or the equipment designed to
reduce or eliminate the violation.
         (2)   The City is notified of the violation within 24 hours from the
time that the violation begins.
         (3)   The violation does not continue in existence for more than eight
hours.
3.04   CIVIL CITATIONS.
Any officer authorized by the City to enforce this Code of Ordinances may issue
a civil citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction. A copy of the
citation may be served by personal service as provided in Rule of Civil
Procedure 1.305, by certified mail addressed to the defendant at defendant’s
last known mailing address, return receipt requested, or by publication in the
manner as provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.310 and subject to the
conditions of Rule of Civil Procedure 1.311. A copy of the citation shall be
retained by the issuing officer, and the original citation shall be sent to the
Clerk of the District Court. The citation shall serve as notification that a
civil offense has been committed and shall contain the following information:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[4])
   1.   The name and address of the defendant.
   2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation.
   3.   The location and time of the infraction.
   4.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative relief
sought, or both.
   5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid.
   6.   The time and place of court appearance.
   7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.
   8.   The legal description of the affected real property, if applicable.
If the citation affects real property and charges a violation relating to the
condition of the property, including a building code violation, a local housing
regulation violation, a housing code violation, or a public health or safety
violation, after filing the citation with the Clerk of the District Court, the
City shall also file the citation in the office of the County Treasurer.
3.05   ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.
Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not preclude the
City from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action. Such
alternative relief may include, but is not limited to, an order for abatement
or injunctive relief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[9])
3.06   ALTERNATIVE PENALTIES.
This chapter does not preclude a peace officer from issuing a criminal citation
for a violation of this Code of Ordinances or regulation if criminal penalties
are also provided for the violation. Nor does it preclude or limit the
authority of the City to enforce the provisions of this Code of Ordinances by
criminal sanctions or other lawful means.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[12])
CHAPTER 5
OPERATING PROCEDURES
 
5.01 Oaths                 5.07 Conflict of Interest
5.02 Bonds                 5.08 Resignations
5.03 Powers and Duties     5.09 Removal of Appointed Officers and Employees
5.04 Books and Records     5.10 Vacancies
5.05 Transfer to Successor 5.11 Gifts
5.06 Meetings
 
5.01   OATHS.
The oath of office shall be required and administered in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Qualify for Office. Each elected or appointed officer shall qualify for
office by taking the prescribed oath and by giving, when required, a bond. The
oath shall be taken, and bond provided, after such officer is certified as
elected but not later than noon of the first day that is not a Sunday or a
legal holiday in January of the first year of the term for which the officer
was elected.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.1)
   2.   Prescribed Oath. The prescribed oath is: “I, (name), do solemnly swear
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of the State of Iowa, and that I will faithfully and impartially, to the best
of my ability, discharge all duties of the office of (name of office) in
Rockwell City as now or hereafter required by law.”
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.10)
   3.   Officers Empowered to Administer Oaths. The following are empowered to
administer oaths and to take affirmations in any matter pertaining to the
business of their respective offices:
      A.   Mayor.
      B.   City Clerk.
      C.   Members of all boards, commissions, or bodies created by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63A.2)
5.02   BONDS.
Surety bonds are provided in accordance with the following:
   1.   Required. The Council shall provide by resolution for a surety bond or
blanket position bond running to the City and covering the Mayor, Clerk,
Treasurer, and such other officers and employees as may be necessary and
advisable except as allowed in Subsection 5.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.13)
   2.   Bonds Approved. Bonds shall be approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.19)
   3.   Bonds Filed. All bonds, after approval and proper record, shall be
filed with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.23(6))
4.   Record. The Clerk shall keep a book, to be known as the “Record of
Official Bonds” in which shall be recorded the official bonds of all City
officers, elective or appointive.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.24(1)(a))
5.   Insurance Policy in Lieu of Bond. In lieu of a bond, a public officer
required to obtain a bond pursuant to Chapter 64 of the Code of Iowa may obtain
an insurance policy in an amount not less than the amounts required of a bond.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.3)
5.03   POWERS AND DUTIES.
Each municipal officer shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
prescribed by law and this Code of Ordinances, or as otherwise directed by the
Council unless contrary to State law or City charter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.04   BOOKS AND RECORDS.
All books and records required to be kept by law or ordinance shall be open to
examination by the public upon request, unless some other provisions of law
expressly limit such right or require such records to be kept confidential.
Access to public records that are combined with data processing software shall
be in accordance with policies and procedures established by the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 22.2 and 22.3A)
5.05   TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR.
Each officer shall transfer to their successor in office all books, papers,
records, documents, and property in the officer’s custody and appertaining to
that office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.06   MEETINGS.
All meetings of the Council, any board or commission, or any multi-membered
body formally and directly created by any of the foregoing bodies shall be held
in accordance with the following:
   1.   Definitions. The following terms are defined for use in this section.
      A.   “Closed session” means a meeting to which all members of the public
do not have access as allowed by Section 21.5 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   “Hybrid meeting” means a meeting involving both remote participation
and in-person participation by members.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(a))
      C.   “Open session” means a meeting to which all members of the public
have access.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.2(3))
      D.   “Remote participation” means real-time participation by a remotely
located individual in a meeting which is being held in a different physical
location using integrated audio, video, and other digital tools.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(b))
      E.   “Reasonable notice” means advising the news media who have filed a
request for notice with the governmental body and posting the notice on a
bulletin board or other prominent place which is easily accessible to the
public and clearly designated for that purpose at the principal office of the
body holding the meeting, or if not such office exists, at the building in
which the meeting is to be held.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4(1))
      F.   “Teleconference participation” means participation using audio
conference tools involving multiple participants in at least two separate
locations.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(c))
      G.   “Virtual meeting” means a meeting involving real-time interaction
using integrated audio, video, and other digital tools, in which participants
do not share a physical location.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(d))
   2.   Notice of Meetings. Reasonable notice of the time, date, and place of
each meeting and its tentative agenda shall be given.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4)
   3.   Meetings Open. All meetings shall be held in open session unless closed
sessions are held as expressly permitted by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   4.   Minutes. Minutes shall be kept of all meetings showing the date, time,
and place, the members present, and the action taken at each meeting. The
minutes shall show the results of each vote taken and information sufficient to
indicate the vote of each member present. The vote of each member present shall
be made public at the open session. The minutes shall be public records open to
public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   5.   Closed Session. A closed session may be held only by affirmative vote
of either two-thirds of the body or all of the members present at the meeting
and in accordance with Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.5)
   6.   Cameras and Recorders. The public may use cameras or recording devices
at any open session.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.7)
   7.   Electronic Meetings. A governmental body shall provide for hybrid
meetings, teleconference participation, virtual meetings, remote participation,
and other hybrid options for the members of the governmental body to
participate in official meetings. A governmental body conducting a meeting
pursuant to this subsection shall comply with all of the provisions of Chapter
21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8)
5.07   CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
A City officer or employee shall not have an interest, direct or indirect, in
any contract or job of work or material or the profits thereof or services to
be furnished or performed for the City, unless expressly permitted by law. A
contract entered into in violation of this section is void. The provisions of
this section do not apply to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5)
   1.   Compensation of Officers. The payment of lawful compensation of a City
officer or employee holding more than one City office or position, the holding
of which is not incompatible with another public office or is not prohibited by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3a])
   2.   Investment of Funds. The designation of a bank or trust company as a
depository, paying agent, or for investment of funds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3b])
   3.   City Treasurer. An employee of a bank or trust company, who serves as
Treasurer of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3c])
   4.   Stock Interests. Contracts in which a City officer or employee has an
interest solely by reason of employment, or a stock interest of the kind
described in Subsection 8 of this section, or both, if the contracts are made
by competitive bid in writing, publicly invited and opened, or if the
remuneration of employment will not be directly affected as a result of the
contract and the duties of employment do not directly involve the procurement
or preparation of any part of the contract. The competitive bid qualification
of this subsection does not apply to a contract for professional services not
customarily awarded by competitive bid.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3e])
   5.   Newspaper. The designation of an official newspaper.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3f])
   6.   Existing Contracts. A contract in which a City officer or employee has
an interest if the contract was made before the time the officer or employee
was elected or appointed, but the contract may not be renewed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3g])
   7.   Volunteers. Contracts with volunteer firefighters or civil defense
volunteers.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3h])
   8.   Corporations. A contract with a corporation in which a City officer or
employee has an interest by reason of stock holdings when less than five
percent of the outstanding stock of the corporation is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the officer or employee or the spouse or immediate
family of such officer or employee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3i])
   9.   Contracts. Contracts made by the City upon competitive bid in writing,
publicly invited and opened.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3d])
   10.   Cumulative Purchases. Contracts not otherwise permitted by this
section, for the purchase of goods or services that benefit a City officer or
employee, if the purchases benefiting that officer or employee do not exceed a
cumulative total purchase price of $6,000.00 in a fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3j])
   11.   Franchise Agreements. Franchise agreements between the City and a
utility and contracts entered into by the City for the provision of essential
City utility services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3k])
   12.   Third Party Contracts. A contract that is a bond, note or other
obligation of the City and the contract is not acquired directly from the City
but is acquired in a transaction with a third party who may or may not be the
original underwriter, purchaser, or obligee of the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3l])
5.08   RESIGNATIONS.
An elected officer who wishes to resign may do so by submitting a resignation
in writing to the Clerk so that it shall be properly recorded and considered. A
person who resigns from an elective office is not eligible for appointment to
the same office during the time for which the person was elected if, during
that time, the compensation of the office has been increased.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(9))
5.09   REMOVAL OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
Except as otherwise provided by State or City law, all persons appointed to
City office or employment may be removed by the officer or body making the
appointment, but every such removal shall be by written order. The order shall
give the reasons, be filed in the office of the Clerk, and a copy shall be sent
by certified mail to the person removed, who, upon request filed with the Clerk
within 30 days after the date of mailing the copy, shall be granted a public
hearing before the Council on all issues connected with the removal. The
hearing shall be held within 30 days after the date the request is filed unless
the person removed requests a later date.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.15)
5.10   VACANCIES.
A vacancy in an elective City office during a term of office shall be filled in
accordance with Section 372.13(2) of the Code of Iowa.
5.11   GIFTS.
Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 68B of the Code of Iowa, a public
official, public employee or candidate, or that person’s immediate family
member, shall not, directly or indirectly, accept or receive any gift or series
of gifts from a “restricted donor” as defined in Chapter 68B and a restricted
donor shall not, directly or indirectly, individually or jointly with one or
more other restricted donors, offer or make a gift or a series of gifts to a
public official, public employee, or candidate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 68B.22)
CHAPTER 6
CITY ELECTIONS
 
6.01 Nominating Method to Be Used 6.05 Filing; Presumption; Withdrawals;
                                  Objections
6.02 Nominations by Petition      6.06 Persons Elected
6.03 Adding Name by Petition      6.07 Precinct Boundaries
6.04 Preparation of Petition and   
Affidavit
 
6.01   NOMINATING METHOD TO BE USED.
All candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated under the
provisions of Chapter 45 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.3)
6.02   NOMINATIONS BY PETITION.
Nominations for elective municipal offices of the City may be made by
nomination paper or papers signed by not less than 10 eligible electors,
residents of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.1)
6.03   ADDING NAME BY PETITION.
The name of a candidate placed upon the ballot by any other method than by
petition shall not be added by petition for the same office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.2)
6.04   PREPARATION OF PETITION AND AFFIDAVIT.
Nomination papers shall include a petition and an affidavit of candidacy. The
petition and affidavit shall be substantially in the form prescribed by the
State Commissioner of Elections, shall include information required by the Code
of Iowa, and shall be signed in accordance with the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.3, 45.5, and 45.6)
6.05   FILING; PRESUMPTION; WITHDRAWALS; OBJECTIONS.
The time and place of filing nomination petitions, the presumption of validity
thereof, the right of a candidate so nominated to withdraw and the effect of
such withdrawal, and the right to object to the legal sufficiency of such
petitions, or to the eligibility of the candidate, shall be governed by the
appropriate provisions of Chapter 44 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.4)
6.06   PERSONS ELECTED.
The candidates who receive the greatest number of votes for each office on the
ballot are elected, to the extent necessary to fill the positions open.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.8[3])
6.07   PRECINCT BOUNDARIES.
The combining of Rockwell City, Lytton (within Calhoun County only),
unincorporated townships of Center, Garfield, Twin Lakes, N. Lake Creek, N.
Logan into a single election precinct is approved by the City of Rockwell City
and the Board of Supervisors on the 28/29th day of March, 2022.
CHAPTER 7
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
 
7.01 Purpose                      7.06 Budget Amendments
7.02 Finance Officer              7.07 Accounting
7.03 Cash Control                 7.08 Financial Reports
7.04 Fund Control                 7.09 Setoff Program Provisions
7.05 Operating Budget Preparation  
 
7.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and provide for rules and
regulations governing the management of the financial affairs of the City.
7.02   FINANCE OFFICER.
The Clerk is the finance and accounting officer of the City and is responsible
for the administration of the provisions of this chapter.
7.03   CASH CONTROL.
To assure the proper accounting and safe custody of moneys the following shall
apply:
   1.   Deposit of Funds. All moneys or fees collected for any purpose by any
City officer shall be deposited through the office of the finance officer. If
any said fees are due to an officer, they shall be paid to the officer by check
drawn by the finance officer and approved by the Council only upon such
officer’s making adequate reports relating thereto as required by law,
ordinance, or Council directive.
   2.   Deposits and Investments. All moneys belonging to the City shall be
promptly deposited in depositories selected by the Council in amounts not
exceeding the authorized depository limitation established by the Council or
invested in accordance with the City’s written investment policy and State law,
including joint investments as authorized by Section 384.21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.21, 12B.10, and 12C.1)
   3.   Petty Cash Fund. The finance officer shall be custodian of a petty cash
fund for the payment of small claims for minor purchases, collect-on-delivery
transportation charges and small fees customarily paid at the time of rendering
a service, for which payments the finance officer shall obtain some form of
receipt or bill acknowledged as paid by the vendor or agent. At such time as
the petty cash fund is approaching depletion, the finance officer shall draw a
check for replenishment in the amount of the accumulated expenditures and said
check and supporting detail shall be submitted to the Council as a claim in the
usual manner for claims and charged to the proper funds and accounts. It shall
not be used for salary payments or other personal services or personal
expenses.
   4.   Change Fund. The finance officer is authorized to draw a warrant/check
on the Utility Fund for establishing a change fund in the amount of $75.00 for
the purpose of making change without commingling other funds to meet the
requirements of the office. Said change fund shall be in the custody of the
finance officer, who shall maintain the integrity of the fund.
7.04   FUND CONTROL.
There shall be established and maintained separate and distinct funds in
accordance with the following:
   1.   Revenues. All moneys received by the City shall be credited to the
proper fund as required by law, ordinance, or resolution.
   2.   Expenditures. No disbursement shall be made from a fund unless such
disbursement is authorized by law, ordinance, or resolution, was properly
budgeted, and supported by a claim approved by the Council.
   3.   Emergency Fund. No transfer may be made from any fund to the Emergency
Fund.
(545 IAC 2.5[2])
   4.   Debt Service Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by State law,
moneys may be transferred from any other City fund to the Debt Service Fund to
meet payments of principal and interest. Such transfers must be authorized by
the original budget or a budget amendment.
(545 IAC 2.5[3])
   5.   Capital Improvements Reserve Fund. Except where specifically prohibited
by State law, moneys may be transferred from any City fund to the Capital
Improvements Reserve Fund. Such transfers must be authorized by the original
budget or a budget amendment.
(545 IAC 2.5[4])
   6.   Utility and Enterprise Funds. A surplus in a Utility or Enterprise Fund
may be transferred to any other City fund, except the Emergency Fund, by
resolution of the Council. A surplus may exist only after all required
transfers have been made to any restricted accounts in accordance with the
terms and provisions of any revenue bonds or loan agreements relating to the
Utility or Enterprise Fund. A surplus is defined as the cash balance in the
operating account or the unrestricted net position calculated in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, after adding back the net
pension and other postemployment benefits, liabilities, and the related
deferred inflows of resources and deducting the related deferred outflows of
resources, in excess of:
      A.   The amount of the expenses of disbursements for operating and
maintaining the utility or enterprise for the preceding three months; and
      B.   The amount necessary to make all required transfers to restricted
accounts for the succeeding three months.
(545 IAC 2.5[5])
   7.   Balancing of Funds. Fund accounts shall be reconciled at the close of
each month and a report thereof submitted to the Council.
7.05   OPERATING BUDGET PREPARATION.
The annual operating budget of the City shall be prepared in accordance with
the following:
   1.   Proposal Prepared. The finance officer is responsible for preparation
of the annual budget detail, for review by the Mayor and Council and adoption
by the Council in accordance with directives of the Mayor and Council.
   2.   Boards and Commissions. All boards, commissions, and other
administrative agencies of the City that are authorized to prepare and
administer budgets must submit their budget proposals to the finance officer
for inclusion in the proposed City budget at such time and in such form as
required by the Council.
   3.   Submission to Council. The finance officer shall submit the completed
budget proposal to the Council each year at such time as directed by the
Council.
   4.   Annual Statement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 24.2A(2))
      A.   On or before 4:00 p.m. on March 5 of each year, the City shall file,
with the Department of Management, a report containing all necessary
information for the Department of Management to compile and calculate amounts
required to be included in the statement mailed under Paragraph B.
      B.   Not later than March 15, the County Auditor, using information
compiled and calculated by the Department of Management shall send to each
property owner or taxpayer within the County, by regular mail, an individual
statement containing all of the required information as provided under Section
24.2A(2)(b)(1-10) of the Code of Iowa.
      C.   The Department of Management shall prescribe the form for the report
required under Paragraph A, the statements to be mailed under Paragraph B, and
the public hearing notice required under Paragraph D.
      D.   The Council shall set a time and place for a public hearing on the
City’s proposed property tax amount for the budget year and the City’s
information included in the statements under Paragraph B. The proposed property
tax hearing shall be set on a date on or after March 20 of the budget year
immediately preceding the budget year for which the tax is being proposed. At
the hearing, the Council shall receive oral or written testimony from any
resident or property owner of the City. This public hearing shall be separate
from any other meeting of the Council, including any other meeting or public
hearing relating to the City’s budget, and other business of the City that is
not related to the proposed property tax amounts and the information in the
statements shall not be conducted at the public hearing. After all testimony
has been received and considered, the governing body may decrease, but not
increase, the proposed property tax amount to be included in the City’s budget.
         (1)   Notice of the public hearing shall be published not less than 10
nor more than 20 days prior to the hearing, in a newspaper published at least
once weekly and having general circulation in the City. However, if the City
has a population of 200 or less, publication may be made by posting in three
public places in the City.
         (2)   Notice of the hearing shall also be posted and clearly
identified on the City’s internet site for public viewing beginning on the date
of the newspaper publication and shall be maintained on the City’s internet
site with all such prior year notices.
         (3)   Additionally, if the City maintains a social media account on
one or more social media applications, the public hearing notice or an
electronic link to the public hearing notice shall be posted on each such
account on a date no later than the date of publication of the notice.
         (4)   Failure of a newspaper to publish a required notice under this
paragraph shall not be considered a failure of a political subdivision to
provide required notice under this paragraph if all of the following conditions
are met:
            a.   Notice of the public hearing was provided to each property
owner and each taxpayer within the political subdivision in statements required
under Section 24.2A(2)(b) of the Code of Iowa.
            b.   The political subdivision can demonstrate to the county
auditor that the political subdivision provided sufficient time for the
newspaper to publish the notice.
   5.   Council Review. The Council shall review the proposed budget and may
make any adjustments it deems appropriate in the budget before accepting such
proposal for publication, hearing, and final adoption.
   6.   Notice of Hearing. Following, and not until the requirements of
Subsection 4 of this section are completed, the Council shall set a time and
place for public hearing on the budget to be held before April 30 and shall
publish notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days before the
hearing. A summary of the proposed budget and a description of the procedure
for protesting the City budget under Section 384.19 of the Code of Iowa, in the
form prescribed by the Director of the Department of Management, shall be
included in the notice.  Proof of publication of the notice under
this subsection must be filed with the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[3])
   7.   Copies of Budget on File. Not less than 20 days before the date that
the budget must be certified to the County Auditor and not less than 10 days
before the public hearing, the Clerk shall make available a sufficient number
of copies of the detailed budget to meet the requests of taxpayers and
organizations, and have them available for distribution at the offices of the
Mayor and Clerk and at the City library.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[2])
   8.   Adoption and Certification. After the hearing, the Council shall adopt,
by resolution, a budget for at least the next fiscal year and the Clerk shall
certify the necessary tax levy for the next fiscal year to the County Auditor
and the County Board of Supervisors. The tax levy certified may be less than,
but not more than, the amount estimated in the proposed budget submitted at the
final hearing, unless an additional tax levy is approved at a City election.
Two copies each of the detailed budget as adopted and of the tax certificate
must be transmitted to the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[5])
7.06   BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
A City budget finally adopted for the following fiscal year becomes effective
July 1 and constitutes the City appropriation for each program and purpose
specified therein until amended as provided by this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.18)
   1.   Program Increase. Any increase in the amount appropriated to a program
must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as the
original budget.
(545 IAC 2.2)
   2.   Program Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one program to
another must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as
the original budget.
(545 IAC 2.3)
   3.   Activity Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one activity to
another activity within a program must be approved by resolution of the
Council.
(545 IAC 2.4)
   4.   Administrative Transfers. The finance officer shall have the authority
to adjust, by transfer or otherwise, the appropriations allocated within a
specific activity without prior Council approval.
(545 IAC 2.4)
7.07   ACCOUNTING.
The accounting records of the City shall consist of not less than the
following:
   1.   Books of Original Entry. There shall be established and maintained
books of original entry to provide a chronological record of cash received and
disbursed.
   2.   General Ledger. There shall be established and maintained a general
ledger controlling all cash transactions, budgetary accounts and for recording
unappropriated surpluses.
   3.   Checks. Checks shall be prenumbered and signed by the Mayor and Clerk
following Council approval, except as provided by Subsection 5 hereof.
   4.   Budget Accounts. There shall be established such individual accounts to
record receipts by source and expenditures by program and activity as will
provide adequate information and control for budgeting purposes as planned and
approved by the Council. Each individual account shall be maintained within its
proper fund and so kept that receipts can be immediately and directly compared
with revenue estimates, and expenditures can be related to the authorizing
appropriation. No expenditure shall be posted except to the appropriation for
the function and purpose for which the expense was incurred.
   5.   Immediate Payment Authorized. The Council may by resolution authorize
the Clerk to issue checks for immediate payment of amounts due, which if not
paid promptly would result in loss of discount, penalty for late payment or
additional interest cost. Any such payments made shall be reported to the
Council for review and approval with and in the same manner as other claims at
the next meeting following such payment. The resolution authorizing immediate
payment shall specify the type of payment so authorized and may include (but is
not limited to) payment of utility bills, contractual obligations, payroll, and
bond principal and interest.
   6.   Utilities. The finance officer shall perform and be responsible for
accounting functions of the municipally owned utilities.
7.08   FINANCIAL REPORTS.
The finance officer shall prepare and file the following financial reports:
   1.   Monthly Reports. There shall be submitted to the Council each month a
report showing the activity and status of each fund, program, sub-program, and
activity for the preceding month.
   2.   Annual Report. Not later than December 1 of each year there shall be
published an annual report containing a summary for the preceding fiscal year
of all collections and receipts, all accounts due the City, and all
expenditures, the current public debt of the City, and the legal debt limit of
the City for the current fiscal year. The Annual Financial Report shall be
prepared on forms and pursuant to instructions prescribed by the Auditor of
State. Beginning with the Annual Financial Report published by December 1,
2025, each report shall include a list of bonds, notes, or other obligations
issued by the City during the most recently completed fiscal year, and the
applicable lists for other fiscal years beginning on or after July 1, 2024, for
which obligations remain unpaid, payable from any source, including the amount
of the issuance, the project or purpose of the issuance, whether the issuance
was approved at election, eligible to be subject to a petition for an election,
or was exempt from approval at election as the result of statutory exclusions
based on population of the City or amount of the issuance, and identification
of issuances from the fiscal year or prior fiscal years related to the same
project or purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.22)
7.09   SETOFF PROGRAM PROVISIONS.
This section shall establish policies and procedures for the City pursuant to
Section 421.65 of the Code of Iowa, to allow the City to utilize and invoke the
setoff program provisions of the State for collection of debts owed to the City
and for which the City has provided the obligor with an opportunity to contest.
   1.   Definitions. The following terms are defined for use in this section:
      A.   “Department” means the Iowa Department of Revenue.
      B.   “Obligor” means a person, not including a public agency, who has
been determined to owe a qualifying debt.
      C.   “Public agency” means a board, commission, department, including the
Department of Revenue, or other administrative office or unit of the State or
any other State entity reported in the Iowa Annual Comprehensive Financial
Report, or a political subdivision of the State, or an office or unit of a
political subdivision. Public agency does include the Clerk of the District
Court as it relates to the collection of a qualifying debt. Public agency does
not include the general assembly or Office of the Governor.
      D.   “Public payment” means any claim a public agency owes to an obligor.
      E.   “Qualifying debt” means any of the following:
         (1)   Any debt, which is assigned to the Department of Health and
Human Services, or which is owed to the Department of Health and Human Services
for unpaid premiums under Section 249A.3(2)(a)(1) of the Code of Iowa, or which
child support services is otherwise attempting to collect, or which foster care
services of the Department of Health and Human Services is attempting to
collect on behalf of a child receiving foster care provided by the Department
of Health and Human Services.
         (2)   Any debt which is in the form of a liquidated sum due, owing,
and payable to the Clerk of the District Court.
         (3)   Any liquidated sum certain, owning, and payable to a public
agency, with respect to which the public agency has provided the obligor an
opportunity to protest or challenge the sum in a manner in compliance with
applicable law and due process, and which has been determined as owing through
the challenge or protest, or for which the time period provided by the public
agency to challenge, or protest has expired.
   2.   Memorandum of Understanding. The City shall enter into a memorandum of
understanding with the Department which shall outline the program guidelines
for use of the State Setoff Program.
   3.   Qualifying Debt. The Clerk shall only certify to the Department
qualifying debt as approved by the Department through the completion of a
qualifying debt questionnaire and for which the City has provided appropriate
documentation showing the City’s legal authority for charging, implementing a
fine or fee for violation of, or imposing costs related to the abatement of
certain conditions when appropriate legal authority exists to the City. The
qualifying debt questionnaire may be updated from time to time as required by
the City to add or remove qualifying debt or as needed by the Department.
   4.   Due Process. Prior to submission of a debt to the Department the City
shall provide the obligor due process as outlined in this section prior to the
submission of a debt:
      A.   With respect to the qualifying debt, the City shall provide the
obligor with 15 days’ advance written notice to the obligor’s last-known
address. Such notice shall provide the obligor with a minimum period of 15 days
in which they may file an appeal in writing to the Clerk.
      B.   Upon receipt of a written request for an appeal on a debt to be
submitted to the Setoff Program the Clerk shall schedule a hearing with the
Council for the next regularly scheduled meeting and notify the obligor of the
hearing date and time at least five days in advance of the hearing.
      C.   At the time and date of the hearing, the Council shall hear any
evidence brought forth by the obligor and shall examine the City’s file
regarding the matter. The Council shall make a ruling upon a majority vote of
the members in attendance.
      D.   If the qualifying debt is upheld by the Council and the debt has not
yet been paid by the obligor, the Clerk may certify the delinquency to the
Department pursuant to Section 421.65 of the Code of Iowa, and the memorandum
of understanding between the City and the Department.
CHAPTER 8
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTIONS
 
8.01 Purpose                        8.06 Applications
8.02 Definitions                    8.07 Approval
8.03 Period of Partial Exemption    8.08 Exemption Repealed
8.04 Amounts Eligible for Exemption 8.09 Dual Exemptions Prohibited
8.05 Limitations                     
 
8.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a partial exemption from property
taxation of the actual value added to industrial real estate by the new
construction of industrial real estate, research-service facilities,
warehouses, and distribution centers.
8.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Actual value added” means the actual value added as of the first year
for which the exemption is received.
   2.   “Distribution center” means a building or structure used primarily for
the storage of goods that are intended for subsequent shipment to retail
outlets. Distribution center does not mean a building or structure used
primarily to store raw agricultural products, used primarily by a manufacturer
to store goods to be used in the manufacturing process, used primarily for the
storage of petroleum products, or used for the retail sale of goods.
   3.   “New construction” means new buildings and structures and includes new
buildings and structures that are constructed as additions to existing
buildings and structures. New construction does not include reconstruction of
an existing building or structure that does not constitute complete replacement
of an existing building or structure or refitting of an existing building or
structure unless the reconstruction of an existing building or structure is
required due to economic obsolescence and the reconstruction is necessary to
implement recognized industry standards for the manufacturing and processing of
specific products and the reconstruction is required for the owner of the
building or structure to continue competitively to manufacture or process those
products, which determination shall receive prior approval from the Council.
   4.   “Research-service facilities” means a building or group of buildings
devoted primarily to research and development activities, including (but not
limited to) the design and production or manufacture of prototype products for
experimental use and corporate research services that do not have a primary
purpose of providing on-site services to the public.
   5.   “Warehouse” means a building or structure used as a public warehouse
for the storage of goods pursuant to Chapter 554, Article 7, of the Code of
Iowa, except that it does not mean a building or structure used primarily to
store raw agricultural products or from which goods are sold at retail.
8.03   PERIOD OF PARTIAL EXEMPTION.
The actual value added to industrial real estate by the new construction of
industrial real estate, research-service facilities, warehouses, and
distribution centers is eligible to receive a partial exemption from taxation
for a period of five years. The exemption shall also apply to the acquisition
of or improvement to machinery and equipment assessed as real estate pursuant
to Section 427A.1[1e] of the Code of Iowa, unless the machinery or equipment is
part of the normal replacement or operating process to maintain or expand the
existing operational status.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
8.04   AMOUNTS ELIGIBLE FOR EXEMPTION.
The amount of actual value added, which is eligible to be exempt from taxation,
shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
   1.   For the first year, 75 percent.
   2.   For the second year, 60 percent.
   3.   For the third year, 45 percent.
   4.   For the fourth year, 30 percent.
   5.   For the fifth year, 15 percent.
8.05   LIMITATIONS.
The granting of the exemption under this chapter for new construction
constituting complete replacement of an existing building or structure shall
not result in the assessed value of the industrial real estate being reduced
below the assessed value of the industrial real estate before the start of the
new construction added.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
8.06   APPLICATIONS.
An application shall be filed for each project resulting in actual value added
for which an exemption is claimed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)
1.   The application for exemption shall be filed by the owner of the property
with the local assessor by February 1 of the assessment year in which the value
added is first assessed for taxation.
2.   Applications for exemption shall be made on forms prescribed by the
Director of Revenue and shall contain information pertaining to the nature of
the improvement, its cost, and other information deemed necessary by the
Director of Revenue.
8.07   APPROVAL.
A person may submit a proposal to the Council to receive prior approval for
eligibility for a tax exemption on new construction. If the Council resolves to
consider such proposal, it shall publish notice and hold a public hearing
thereon. Thereafter, at least 30 days after such hearing, the Council, by
ordinance, may give its prior approval of a tax exemption for new construction
if the new construction is in conformance with City zoning. Such prior approval
shall not entitle the owner to exemption from taxation until the new
construction has been completed and found to be qualified real estate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)
8.08   EXEMPTION REPEALED.
When in the opinion of the Council continuation of the exemption granted by
this chapter ceases to be of benefit to the City, the Council may repeal this
chapter, but all existing exemptions shall continue until their expiration.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.5)
8.09   DUAL EXEMPTIONS PROHIBITED.
A property tax exemption under this chapter shall not be granted if the
property for which the exemption is claimed has received any other property tax
exemption authorized by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.6)
CHAPTER 10
URBAN RENEWAL
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED NAME OF AREA
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED          NAME OF AREA
339           February 7, 2005 Highway 20 East Urban Renewal District
377           June 7, 2021     2021 Urban Renewal Area Addition
                              
                              
                              
 
CHAPTER 11
URBAN REVITALIZATION
EDITOR’S NOTE 
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted designating Urban Revitalization Areas in the City
and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED          NAME OF AREA
318           May 18, 1998     Residential Urban Revitalization Area
332           October 20, 2003 Commercial Urban Revitalization Area
382           January 18, 2022 Rockwell City Urban Revitalization Areas for
                               Commercial and Residential Tax Abatement
                              
                              
 
CHAPTER 15
MAYOR
 
15.01 Term of Office    15.04 Compensation
15.02 Powers and Duties 15.05 Voting
15.03 Appointments       
 
15.01   TERM OF OFFICE.
The Mayor is elected for a term of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
15.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Mayor are as follows:
   1.   Chief Executive Officer. Act as the chief executive officer of the City
and presiding officer of the Council, supervise all departments of the City,
give direction to department heads concerning the functions of the departments,
and have the power to examine all functions of the municipal departments, their
records and to call for special reports from department heads at any time.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
   2.   Proclamation of Emergency. Have authority to take command of the police
and govern the City by proclamation, upon making a determination that a time of
emergency or public danger exists. Within the City limits, the Mayor has all
the powers conferred upon the Sheriff to suppress disorders.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[2])
   3.   Special Meetings. Call special meetings of the Council when the Mayor
deems such meetings necessary to the interests of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
   4.   Mayor’s Veto. Sign, veto, or take no action on an ordinance, amendment,
or resolution passed by the Council. The Mayor may veto an ordinance,
amendment, or resolution within 14 days after passage. The Mayor shall explain
the reasons for the veto in a written message to the Council at the time of the
veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.5 and 380.6[2])
   5.   Reports to Council. Make such oral or written reports to the Council as
required. These reports shall concern municipal affairs generally, the
municipal departments, and recommendations suitable for Council action.
   6.   Negotiations. Represent the City in all negotiations properly entered
into in accordance with law or ordinance. The Mayor shall not represent the
City where this duty is specifically delegated to another officer by law,
ordinance, or Council direction.
   7.   Contracts. Whenever authorized by the Council, sign contracts on behalf
of the City.
   8.   Professional Services. Upon order of the Council, secure for the City
such specialized and professional services not already available to the City.
In executing the order of the Council, the Mayor shall act in accordance with
this Code of Ordinances and the laws of the State.
   9.   Licenses and Permits. Sign all licenses and permits that have been
granted by the Council, except those designated by law or ordinance to be
issued by another municipal officer.
   10.   Nuisances. Issue written order for removal, at public expense, any
nuisance for which no person can be found responsible and liable.
   11.   Absentee Officer. Make appropriate provision that duties of any
absentee officer be carried on during such absence.
15.03   APPOINTMENTS.
The Mayor shall appoint the following officials:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
   1.   Mayor Pro Tem.
   2.   Police Chief.
   3.   Library Board of Trustees.
   4.   City Tree Board.
   5.   Parks and Recreation Board.
15.04   COMPENSATION.
The salary of the Mayor is $4,200.00 per year, paid monthly.† 4
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(8))
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 391 adopted on February 20, 2024, approve a new
4 annual compensation rate for the Mayor. By law this change will take place
  effective January 1, 2026.
15.05   VOTING.
The Mayor is not a member of the Council and shall not vote as a member of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
CHAPTER 16
MAYOR PRO TEM
 
16.01 Vice President of Council 16.03 Voting Rights
16.02 Powers and Duties         16.04 Compensation
 
16.01   VICE PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
The Mayor shall appoint a member of the Council as Mayor Pro Tem, who shall
serve as vice president of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
Except for the limitations otherwise provided herein, the Mayor Pro Tem shall
perform the duties of the Mayor in cases of absence or inability of the Mayor
to perform such duties. In the exercise of the duties of the office the Mayor
Pro Tem shall not have power to appoint, employ, or discharge from employment
officers or employees that the Mayor has the power to appoint, employ, or
discharge without the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.03   VOTING RIGHTS.
The Mayor Pro Tem shall have the right to vote as a member of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.04   COMPENSATION.
If the Mayor Pro Tem performs the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor’s
absence or disability for a continuous period of 15 days or more, the Mayor Pro
Tem may be paid for that period the compensation as determined by the Council,
based upon the Mayor Pro Tem’s performance of the Mayor’s duties and upon the
compensation of the Mayor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 17
CITY COUNCIL
 
17.01 Number and Term of Council 17.04 Council Meetings
17.02 Powers and Duties          17.05 Appointments
17.03 Exercise of Power          17.06 Compensation
 
17.01   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of five Council members elected at large for overlapping
terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4 and 376.2)
17.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Council include, but are not limited to the
following:
   1.   General. All powers of the City are vested in the Council except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
   2.   Wards. By ordinance, the Council may divide the City into wards based
upon population, change the boundaries of wards, eliminate wards, or create new
wards.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[7])
   3.   Fiscal Authority. The Council shall apportion and appropriate all
funds, and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls, and claims, and order
payment thereof. It shall make all assessments for the cost of street
improvements, sidewalks, sewers, and other work, improvement, or repairs that
may be specially assessed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1], 384.16, and 384.38[1])
   4.   Public Improvements. The Council shall make all orders for the
construction of any improvements, bridges, or buildings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
   5.   Contracts. The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts. No contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the City unless
approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 26)
   6.   Employees. The Council shall authorize, by resolution, the number,
duties, term of office, and compensation of employees or officers not otherwise
provided for by State law or the Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   7.   Setting Compensation for Elected Officers. By ordinance, the Council
shall prescribe the compensation of the Mayor, Council members, and other
elected City officers, but a change in the compensation of the Mayor does not
become effective during the term in which the change is adopted, and the
Council shall not adopt such an ordinance changing the compensation of any
elected officer during the months of November and December in the year of a
regular City election. A change in the compensation of Council members becomes
effective for all Council members at the beginning of the term of the Council
members elected at the election next following the change in compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
17.03   EXERCISE OF POWER.
The Council shall exercise a power only by the passage of a motion, a
resolution, an amendment, or an ordinance in the following manner:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[1])
   1.   Action by Council. Passage of an ordinance, amendment, or resolution
requires a majority vote of all of the members of the Council. Passage of a
motion requires a majority vote of a quorum of the Council. A resolution must
be passed to spend public funds in excess of $100,000.00 on a public
improvement project, or to accept public improvements and facilities upon their
completion. Each Council member’s vote on a measure must be recorded. A measure
that fails to receive sufficient votes for passage shall be considered
defeated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.4)
   2.   Overriding Mayor’s Veto. Within 30 days after the Mayor’s veto, the
Council may pass the measure again by a vote of not less than two-thirds of all
of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
   3.   Measures Become Effective. Measures passed by the Council become
effective in one of the following ways:
      A.   An ordinance or amendment signed by the Mayor becomes effective when
the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a subsequent
effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1a])
      B.   A resolution signed by the Mayor becomes effective immediately upon
signing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1b])
      C.   A motion becomes effective immediately upon passage of the motion by
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1c])
      D.   If the Mayor vetoes an ordinance, amendment, or resolution and the
Council repasses the measure after the Mayor’s veto, a resolution becomes
effective immediately upon repassage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes a
law when the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a
subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
      E.   If the Mayor takes no action on an ordinance, amendment, or
resolution, a resolution becomes effective 14 days after the date of passage,
and an ordinance or amendment becomes law when the ordinance or a summary of
the ordinance is published, but not sooner than 14 days after the date of
passage, unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or
amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[3])
      “All of the members of the Council” refers to all of the seats of the
Council including a vacant seat and a seat where the member is absent, but does
not include a seat where the Council member declines to vote by reason of a
conflict of interest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.1[a])
17.04   COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   Procedures for giving notice of meetings of the Council and other provisions
regarding the conduct of Council meetings are contained in Section
5.06 of this Code of Ordinances. Additional particulars relating to Council
meetings are the following:
   1.   Regular Meetings. The regular meetings of the Council are on the first
and third Mondays of each month at 5:30 p.m. at City Hall. If such day falls on
a legal holiday, the meeting is held the next day at the same time unless a
different day or time is determined by the Council.
   2.   Special Meetings. Special meetings shall be held upon call of the Mayor
or upon the request of a majority of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
   3.   Quorum. A majority of all Council members is a quorum.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[1])
   4.   Rules of Procedure. The Council shall determine its own rules and
maintain records of its proceedings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
   5.   Compelling Attendance. Any three members of the Council can compel the
attendance of the absent members at any regular, adjourned, or duly called
meeting, by serving a written notice upon the absent members to attend at once.
17.05   APPOINTMENTS.
The Council shall appoint the following officials and prescribe their powers,
duties, compensation, and term of office:
   1.   City Attorney.
   2.   City Clerk.
   3.   City Treasurer.
   4.   Planning and Zoning Commission.
   5.   Zoning Administrative Officer.
   6.   Zoning Board of Adjustment.
17.06   COMPENSATION.
The salary of each Council member is $30.00 for each meeting of the Council
attended.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 18
CITY CLERK
 
18.01 Appointment and Compensation 18.08 Records
18.02 Powers and Duties: General   18.09 Attendance at Meetings
18.03 Publication of Minutes       18.10 Licenses and Permits
18.04 Recording Measures           18.11 Notification of Appointments
18.05 Other Publications           18.12 Elections
18.06 Authentication               18.13 City Seal
18.07 Certification                18.14 City Funds
 
18.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
At its first meeting in January following the regular City election, the
Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Clerk to serve for a term of two
years. The Clerk shall receive such compensation as established by resolution
of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3])
18.02   POWERS AND DUTIES: GENERAL.
The Clerk (or, in the Clerk’s absence or inability to act, the Deputy Clerk)
has the powers and duties as provided in this chapter, this Code of Ordinances,
and the law.
18.03   PUBLICATION OF MINUTES.
Within fifteen days following a regular or special meeting of the Council, the
Clerk shall cause the minutes of the proceedings of the Council, including the
total expenditure from each City fund, to be delivered to a newspaper of
general circulation in the City for publication. The publication shall include
a list of all claims allowed and a summary of all receipts and shall show the
gross amount of the claims.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[6])
18.04   RECORDING MEASURES.
The Clerk shall promptly record each measure considered by the Council and
record a statement with the measure, where applicable, indicating whether the
Mayor signed, vetoed, or took no action on the measure, and whether the measure
was repassed after the Mayor’s veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[1 and 2])
18.05   OTHER PUBLICATIONS.
The Clerk shall cause to be published all ordinances, enactments, proceedings,
and official notices requiring publication as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3)
   1.   Time. If notice of an election, hearing, or other official action is
required by this Code of Ordinances or law, the notice must be published at
least once, not less than four or more than 20 days before the date of the
election, hearing, or other action, unless otherwise provided by law.
   2.   Manner of Publication. A publication required by this Code of
Ordinances or law must be in a newspaper published at least once weekly and
having general circulation in the City.
18.06   AUTHENTICATION.
The Clerk shall authenticate all measures except motions with the Clerk’s
signature, certifying the time and manner of publication when required.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[4])
18.07   CERTIFICATION.
The Clerk shall certify all measures establishing any zoning district, building
lines, or fire limits and a plat showing the district, lines, or limits to the
recorder of the County containing the affected parts of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.11)
18.08   RECORDS.
The Clerk shall maintain the specified City records in the following manner:
   1.   Ordinances and Codes. Maintain copies of all effective City ordinances
and codes for public use.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[5])
   2.   Custody. Have custody and be responsible for the safekeeping of all
writings or documents in which the City is a party in interest unless otherwise
specifically directed by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   3.   Maintenance. Maintain all City records and documents (or accurate
reproductions) for at least five years except that ordinances, resolutions,
Council proceedings, records, and documents (or accurate reproductions)
relating to the issuance, cancellation, transfer, redemption, or replacement of
public bonds or obligations shall be kept for at least 11 years following the
final maturity of the bonds or obligations. Ordinances, resolutions, Council
proceedings, records, and documents (or accurate reproductions) relating to
real property transactions shall be maintained permanently.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3 and 5])
   4.   Provide Copy. Furnish upon request to any municipal officer a copy of
any record, paper, or public document under the Clerk’s control when it may be
necessary to such officer in the discharge of such officer’s duty; furnish a
copy to any citizen when requested upon payment of the fee set by Council
resolution; under the direction of the Mayor or other authorized officer, affix
the seal of the City to those public documents or instruments that by this Code
of Ordinances are required to be attested by the affixing of the seal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4 and 5] and 380.7[5])
   5.   Filing of Communications. Keep and file all communications and
petitions directed to the Council or to the City generally. The Clerk shall
endorse thereon the action of the Council taken upon matters considered in such
communications and petitions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.09   ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
The Clerk shall attend all regular and special Council meetings and, at the
direction of the Council, the Clerk shall attend meetings of committees,
boards, and commissions. The Clerk shall record and preserve a correct record
of the proceedings of such meetings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.10   LICENSES AND PERMITS.
The Clerk shall issue or revoke licenses and permits when authorized by this
Code of Ordinances, and keep a record of licenses and permits issued which
shall show date of issuance, license or permit number, official receipt number,
name of person to whom issued, term of license or permit, and purpose for which
issued.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.11   NOTIFICATION OF APPOINTMENTS.
The Clerk shall inform all persons appointed by the Mayor or Council to offices
in the City government of their positions and the time at which they shall
assume the duties of their offices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.12   ELECTIONS.
The Clerk shall perform the duties relating to elections in accordance with
Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa.
18.13   CITY SEAL.
The City seal is in the custody of the Clerk and shall be attached by the Clerk
to all transcripts, orders, and certificates which it may be necessary or
proper to authenticate. The City seal is circular in form, in the center of
which are the words “SEAL - IOWA” and around the margin of which are the words
“INCORPORATED CITY OF ROCKWELL CITY, CALHOUN COUNTY.”
18.14   CITY FUNDS.
The Clerk shall perform the following duties relating to City funds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Custody of Funds. Be responsible for the safe custody of all funds of
the City in the manner provided by law, and Council direction.
   2.   Record Receipts. Keep an accurate record of all money or securities
received on behalf of the City and specify the date, from whom, and for what
purpose received.
   3.   Record Disbursements. Keep an accurate account of all disbursements,
money, or property, specifying date, to whom, and from what fund paid.
   4.   Special Assessments. Keep a separate account of all money received from
special assessments.
   5.   Debt Service. Keep a register of all bonds outstanding and record all
payments of interest and principal.
CHAPTER 19
CITY TREASURER
 
19.01 Appointment  19.03 Duties of Treasurer
19.02 Compensation  
 
19.01   APPOINTMENT.
The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Treasurer to serve for a term
of four years.
19.02   COMPENSATION.
The Treasurer is paid such compensation as specified by resolution of the
Council.
19.03   DUTIES OF TREASURER.
The duties of the Treasurer are as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Reconciliation. Reconcile depository statements with the Clerk’s books
and certify monthly to the Council the balance of cash and investments of each
fund and amounts received and disbursed.
   2.   Other Duties. Perform such other duties as specified by the Council by
resolution or ordinance.
CHAPTER 20
CITY ATTORNEY
 
20.01 Appointment and Compensation 20.05 Review and Comment
20.02 Attorney for City            20.06 Provide Legal Opinion
20.03 Power of Attorney            20.07 Attendance at Council Meetings
20.04 Ordinance Preparation        20.08 Prepare Documents
 
20.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Attorney to serve at the
discretion of the Council. The City Attorney shall receive such compensation as
established by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.02   ATTORNEY FOR CITY.
The City Attorney shall act as attorney for the City in all matters affecting
the City’s interest and appear on behalf of the City before any court,
tribunal, commission, or board. The City Attorney shall prosecute or defend all
actions and proceedings when so requested by the Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.03   POWER OF ATTORNEY.
The City Attorney shall sign the name of the City to all appeal bonds and to
all other bonds or papers of any kind that may be essential to the prosecution
of any cause in court, and when so signed the City shall be bound upon the
same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.04   ORDINANCE PREPARATION.
The City Attorney shall prepare those ordinances that the Council may desire
and direct to be prepared and report to the Council upon all such ordinances
before their final passage by the Council and publication.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.05   REVIEW AND COMMENT.
The City Attorney shall, upon request, make a report to the Council giving an
opinion on all contracts, documents, resolutions, or ordinances submitted to or
coming under the City Attorney’s notice.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.06   PROVIDE LEGAL OPINION.
The City Attorney shall give advice or a written legal opinion on City
contracts and all questions of law relating to City matters submitted by the
Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.07   ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
The City Attorney shall attend meetings of the Council at the request of the
Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.08   PREPARE DOCUMENTS.
The City Attorney shall, upon request, formulate drafts for contracts, forms,
and other writings that may be required for the use of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
CHAPTER 22
LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
 
22.01 Public Library                   22.08 Receipts and Expenditures
22.02 Library Trustees                 22.09 Gifts and Memorial Funds
22.03 Qualifications of Trustees       22.10 Annual Report
22.04 Organization of the Board        22.11 Injury to Books or Property
22.05 Powers and Duties                22.12 Theft
22.06 Contracting with Other Libraries 22.13 Notice Posted
22.07 Nonresident Use                   
 
22.01   PUBLIC LIBRARY.
The public library for the City is known as the Rockwell City Public Library.
It is referred to in this chapter as the Library.
22.02   LIBRARY TRUSTEES.
The Board of Trustees of the Library, hereinafter referred to as the Board,
consists of eight resident members and one nonresident member. All resident
members are to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Council. The
nonresident member is to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the
County Board of Supervisors.
22.03   QUALIFICATIONS OF TRUSTEES.
All resident members of the Board shall be bona fide citizens and residents of
the City. The nonresident member of the Board shall be a bona fide citizen and
resident of the unincorporated County. Members shall be over the age of 18
years.
22.04   ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD.
The organization of the Board shall be as follows:
   1.   Term of Office. All appointments to the Board shall be for six years,
except to fill vacancies. Each term shall commence on July 1. Appointments
shall be made every two years of one-third the total number or as near as
possible, to stagger the terms.
   2.   Vacancies. The position of any resident Trustee shall be vacated if
such member moves permanently from the City. The position of a nonresident
Trustee shall be vacated if such member moves permanently from the County or
into the City. The position of any Trustee shall be deemed vacated if such
member is absent from six consecutive regular meetings of the Board, except in
the case of sickness or temporary absence from the City or County. Vacancies in
the Board shall be filled in the same manner as an original appointment except
that the new Trustee shall fill out the unexpired term for which the
appointment is made.
   3.   Compensation. Trustees shall receive no compensation for their
services.
22.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Board shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   1.   Officers. To meet and elect from its members a President, a Secretary,
and such other officers as it deems necessary. The Clerk shall serve as Board
Treasurer, but shall not be a member of the Board.
   2.   Physical Plant. To have charge, control, and supervision of the
Library, its appurtenances, fixtures, and rooms containing the same.
   3.   Charge of Affairs. To direct and control all affairs of the Library.
   4.   Hiring of Personnel. To employ a Librarian, and authorize the Librarian
to employ such assistants and employees as may be necessary for the proper
management of the Library, and fix their compensation; provided, however, prior
to such employment, the compensation of the Librarian, assistants, and
employees shall have been fixed and approved by a majority of the members of
the Board voting in favor thereof.
   5.   Removal of Personnel. To remove the Librarian, by a two-thirds vote of
the Board, and provide procedures for the removal of the assistants or
employees for misdemeanor, incompetence, or inattention to duty, subject
however, to the provisions of Chapter 35C of the Code of Iowa.
   6.   Purchases. To select, or authorize the Librarian to select, and make
purchases of books, pamphlets, magazines, periodicals, papers, maps, journals,
other Library materials, furniture, fixtures, stationery, and supplies for the
Library within budgetary limits set by the Board.
   7.   Use by Nonresidents. To authorize the use of the Library by
nonresidents and to fix charges therefor unless a contract for free service
exists.
   8.   Rules and Regulations. To make and adopt, amend, modify, or repeal
rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this Code of Ordinances and the
law, for the care, use, government, and management of the Library and the
business of the Board, fixing and enforcing penalties for violations.
   9.   Enforce the Performance of Conditions on Gifts. To enforce the
performance of conditions on gifts, donations, devises, and bequests accepted
by the City by action against the Council.
   10.   Record of Proceedings. To keep a record of its proceedings.
   11.   County Historical Association. To have authority to make agreements
with the local County historical association where such exists, and to set
apart the necessary room and to care for such articles as may come into the
possession of the association. The Trustees are further authorized to purchase
necessary receptacles and materials for the preservation and protection of such
articles as are in their judgment of a historical and educational nature and
pay for the same out of funds allocated for Library purposes.
22.06   CONTRACTING WITH OTHER LIBRARIES.
The Board has power to contract with other libraries in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Contracting. The Board may contract with any other boards of trustees
of free public libraries, with any other city, school corporation, private or
semiprivate organization, institution of higher learning, township, or County,
or with the trustees of any County library district for the use of the Library
by their respective residents.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.5 and Ch. 28E)
   2.   Termination. Such a contract may be terminated at any time by mutual
consent of the contracting parties. It also may be terminated by a majority
vote of the electors represented by either of the contracting parties. Such a
termination proposition shall be submitted to the electors by the governing
body of a contracting party on a written petition of not less than five percent
in number of the electors who voted for governor in the territory of the
contracting party at the last general election. The petition must be presented
to the governing body not less than 40 days before the election. The
proposition may be submitted at any election provided by law which is held in
the territory of the party seeking to terminate the contract.
22.07   NONRESIDENT USE.
The Board may authorize the use of the Library by persons not residents of the
City or County in any one or more of the following ways:
   1.   Lending. By lending the books or other materials of the Library to
nonresidents on the same terms and conditions as to residents of the City, or
County, or upon payment of a special nonresident Library fee.
   2.   Depository. By establishing depositories of Library books or other
materials to be loaned to nonresidents.
   3.   Bookmobiles. By establishing bookmobiles or a traveling library so that
books or other Library materials may be loaned to nonresidents.
   4.   Branch Library. By establishing branch libraries for lending books or
other Library materials to nonresidents.
22.08   RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES.
All money appropriated by the Council for the operation and maintenance of the
Library and all money received from Library activities including, but not
limited, to room rent, fines, and County Association Allotments shall be
reported as Library Revenues and deposited in the General Fund. Expenditures
shall be paid for only on orders of the Board, signed by its President and
Secretary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.20 and 392.5)
22.09   GIFTS AND MEMORIAL FUNDS.
There is established a Library Trust and Agency Memorial Account for the
purpose of Library-related capital improvements and for such special gifts and
projects to meet the intent of the donors and testators involved which shall be
held by the City in total with all other City funds and accounts. Any and all
withdrawals or transfers affecting this account shall be done with the
concurrence of the Library Trustees, within budgetary limitations.
22.10   ANNUAL REPORT.
The Board shall make a report to the Council immediately after the close of the
fiscal year. This report shall contain statements as to the condition of the
Library, the number of books added, the number circulated, the amount of fines
collected, and the amount of money expended in the maintenance of the Library
during the year, together with such further information as may be required by
the Council.
22.11   INJURY TO BOOKS OR PROPERTY.
It is unlawful for a person willfully, maliciously or wantonly to tear, deface,
mutilate, injure or destroy, in whole or in part, any newspaper, periodical,
book, map, pamphlet, chart, picture, or other property belonging to the Library
or reading room.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
22.12   THEFT.
No person shall take possession or control of property of the Library with the
intent to deprive the Library thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
22.13   NOTICE POSTED.
There shall be posted in clear public view within the Library notices informing
the public of the following:
   1.   Failure to Return. Failure to return Library materials for two months
or more after the date the person agreed to return the Library materials, or
failure to return Library equipment for one month or more after the date the
person agreed to return the Library equipment, is evidence of intent to deprive
the owner, provided a reasonable attempt, including the mailing by restricted
certified mail of notice that such material or equipment is overdue and
criminal actions will be taken, has been made to reclaim the materials or
equipment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.5)
   2.   Detention and Search. Persons concealing Library materials may be
detained and searched pursuant to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 808.12)
CHAPTER 23
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
 
23.01 Planning and Zoning Commission 23.04 Compensation
23.02 Term of Office                 23.05 Powers and Duties
23.03 Vacancies                       
 
23.01   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
The City Planning and Zoning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the
Commission, consists of seven members appointed by the Council. The Commission
members shall be residents of the City and shall not hold any elective office
in the City government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6 and 392.1)
23.02   TERM OF OFFICE.
The term of office of the members of the Commission shall be five years. The
terms of not more than one-third of the members will expire in any one year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.03   VACANCIES.
If any vacancy exists on the Commission, caused by resignation or otherwise, a
successor for the remainder of the term shall be appointed in the same manner
as the original appointee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.04   COMPENSATION.
All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, except their
actual expenses, which shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Commission shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   1.   Selection of Officers. The Commission shall choose annually at its
first regular meeting one of its members to act as Chairperson and another as
Vice Chairperson, who shall perform all the duties of the Chairperson during
the Chairperson’s absence or disability.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   2.   Adopt Rules and Regulations. The Commission shall adopt such rules and
regulations governing its organization and procedure as it may deem necessary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   3.   Zoning. The Commission shall have and exercise all the powers and
duties and privileges in establishing the City zoning regulations and other
related matters and may from time to time recommend to the Council amendments,
supplements, changes, or modifications, all as provided by Chapter 414 of the
Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6)
   4.   Recommendations on Improvements. The design and proposed location of
public improvements shall be submitted to the Commission for its
recommendations prior to any actions being taken by the City for the
construction or placement of such improvements.Such requirements and
recommendations shall not act as a stay upon action for any such improvement if
the Commission, after 30 days’ written notice requesting such recommendations,
has failed to file the same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   5.   Review and Comment on Plats. All plans, plats, or re-plats of
subdivisions or re-subdivisions of land in the City or adjacent thereto, laid
out in lots or plats with the streets, alleys, or other portions of the same
intended to be dedicated to the public in the City, shall first be submitted to
the Commission and its recommendations obtained before approval by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   6.   Fiscal Responsibilities. The Commission shall have full, complete, and
exclusive authority to expend, for and on behalf of the City, all sums of money
appropriated to it and to use and expend all gifts, donations, or payments that
are received by the City for City planning and zoning purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   7.   Limitation on Entering Contracts. The Commission shall have no power to
contract debts beyond the amount of its original or amended appropriation as
approved by the Council for the present year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   8.   Annual Report. The Commission shall each year make a report to the
Mayor and Council of its proceedings, with a full statement of its receipts and
disbursements and the progress of its work during the preceding fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
CHAPTER 24
PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
 
24.01 Parks and Recreation Board Created 24.04 Reports
24.02 Board Organization                 24.05 Rules
24.03 Duties of the Board                 
 
24.01   PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD CREATED.
A Parks and Recreation Board is hereby created to advise the Council on the
needed facilities to provide open space such as parks, playgrounds, and
community facilities for other forms of recreation. It shall also plan and
oversee City programs and encourage other programs to enhance the leisure time
activities of the City’s residents of all ages.
24.02   BOARD ORGANIZATION.
The Board shall consist of five members, all residents of the City, appointed
by the Mayor with the approval of the Council, for overlapping terms of three
years. The Board shall annually choose from its membership a Chairperson, Vice
Chairperson, and Secretary. Members shall serve without compensation, but may
receive reimbursement for expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment for
the balance of the term.
24.03   DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
In addition to its duty to make a plan for recreation and for the facilities
for recreation, and to update and revise these plans as required, the Board has
authority over the properties and personnel devoted to parks and recreation,
subject to the limitation of expenditures for salaries and supplies, contracts,
and capital outlays set forth in the annual budget provided by the Council for
parks and recreation operations. The Board shall cooperate with the Mayor in
the allotment of time of City employees for parks and recreation purposes. The
Chairperson shall order supplies by the procedures established by the Council
for all departments of the City, and payment will be made by check written by
the Clerk for invoices submitted and approved by the Board.
24.04   REPORTS.
The Board shall make written reports to the Council of its activities from time
to time as it deems advisable, or upon Council request. Its revenues and
expenditures shall be reported monthly by the Clerk in the manner of other
departmental expenditures, and a copy shall be provided to each member of the
Board and in the Clerk’s report to the Council.
24.05   RULES.
The Board has the power to make rules and regulations for the use of parks or
other recreational facilities or for the conduct of recreation programs,
subject to the approval of the rules by the Council. Such rules shall be either
posted on the facility or otherwise publicized in a manner to provide adequate
notice to the using public. Violation of a rule or regulation so posted or
publicized may be cause for denial of use of the facility or if it is a
violation of this Code of Ordinances may be prosecuted as a simple misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 25
CITY TREE BOARD
 
25.01 Establishment of City Tree Board 25.05 Operation
25.02 Vacancy                          25.06 Interference with City Tree Board
25.03 Compensation                     25.07 Review by Council
25.04 Duties and Responsibilities       
 
25.01   ESTABLISHMENT OF CITY TREE BOARD.
There is hereby established a City Tree Board for the City, which shall consist
of five members, citizens and residents of the City, who shall be appointed by
the Mayor, with the approval of the Council, for staggered three-year terms.
25.02   VACANCY.
In the event that a vacancy occurs on the Board, it shall be filled by
appointment by the Mayor with the approval of the Council, and such appointee
shall fill out the unexpired term of the member whose office was vacated.
25.03   COMPENSATION.
Members of the Board shall serve without compensation except for their actual
expenses, which shall be subject to Council approval.
25.04   DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
It is the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate, and develop or
update annually, and administer a written plan for the care, preservation,
pruning, planting, replanting, removal, or disposition of trees and shrubs in
parks, along streets, and in other public areas. Such plan will be presented
annually to the Council and, upon their acceptance and approval, shall
constitute the official comprehensive City Tree Plan for the City. The Board,
when requested by the Council, shall consider, investigate, make findings,
report, and recommend upon any special matter or question coming within the
scope of its work.
25.05   OPERATION.
The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and regulations,
and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be
quorum for the transaction of business.
25.06   INTERFERENCE WITH CITY TREE BOARD.
It is unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with the City
Tree Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the planting,
cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any street trees, park
trees, or trees on private grounds.
25.07   REVIEW BY COUNCIL.
The Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts, and decisions of
the City Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of the
Board to the Council, who may hear the matter and make final decision.
CHAPTER 30
POLICE DEPARTMENT
 
30.01 Department Established       30.07 Powers and Duties of Police Chief
30.02 Organization                 30.08 Departmental Rules
30.03 Peace Officer Qualifications 30.09 Summoning Aid
30.04 Required Training            30.10 Taking Weapons
30.05 Compensation                 30.11 Contract Law Enforcement
30.06 Peace Officers Appointed      
 
30.01   DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
The Police Department of the City is established to provide for the
preservation of peace and enforcement of law and ordinances within the
corporate limits of the City.
30.02   ORGANIZATION.
The department consists of the Police Chief and such other law enforcement
officers and personnel, whether full or part time, as may be authorized by the
Council.
30.03   PEACE OFFICER QUALIFICATIONS.
In no case shall any person be selected or appointed as a law enforcement
officer unless such person meets the minimum qualification standards
established by the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11)
30.04   REQUIRED TRAINING.
All peace officers shall have received the minimum training required by law at
an approved law enforcement training school within one year of employment.
Peace officers shall also meet the minimum in-service training as required by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11[2])
(501 IAC 3 and 8)
30.05   COMPENSATION.
Members of the department are designated by rank and receive such compensation
as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
30.06   PEACE OFFICERS APPOINTED.
The Mayor shall appoint and dismiss the Police Chief, subject to the consent of
a majority of the Council. The Mayor shall also select, subject to the approval
of Council, the other members of the department.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
30.07   POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE CHIEF.
The Police Chief has the following powers and duties subject to the approval of
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   General. Perform all duties required of the Police Chief by law or
ordinance.
   2.   Enforce Laws. Enforce all laws, ordinances, and regulations and bring
all persons committing any offense before the proper court.
   3.   Writs. Execute and return all writs and other processes directed to the
Police Chief.
   4.   Accident Reports. Report all motor vehicle accidents investigated to
the State Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.266)
   5.   Prisoners. Be responsible for the custody of prisoners, including
conveyance to detention facilities as may be required.
   6.   Assist Officials. When requested, provide aid to other City officers,
boards, and commissions in the execution of their official duties.
   7.   Investigations. Provide for such investigation as may be necessary for
the prosecution of any person alleged to have violated any law or ordinance.
   8.   Record of Arrests. Keep a record of all arrests made in the City by
showing whether said arrests were made under provisions of State law or City
ordinance, the offense charged, who made the arrest, and the disposition of the
charge.
   9.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report
as well as such other reports as may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
   10.   Command. Be in command of all officers appointed for police work and
be responsible for the care, maintenance, and use of all vehicles, equipment,
and materials of the department.
30.08   DEPARTMENTAL RULES.
The Police Chief shall establish such rules, not in conflict with the Code of
Ordinances, and subject to the approval of the Council, as may be necessary for
the operation of the department.
30.09   SUMMONING AID.
Any peace officer making a legal arrest may orally summon as many persons as
the officer reasonably finds necessary to aid the officer in making the arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.17)
30.10   TAKING WEAPONS.
Any person who makes an arrest may take from the person arrested all items that
are capable of causing bodily harm which the arrested person may have within
such person’s control, to be disposed of according to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.18)
30.11   CONTRACT LAW ENFORCEMENT.
In lieu of the appointment of a Police Chief by the Mayor as provided by
Section 30.06, the Council may contract with the County Sheriff or any other
qualified lawful entity to provide law enforcement services within the City and
in such event the Sheriff or such other entity shall have and exercise the
powers and duties of the Police Chief as provided herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 28E.30)
CHAPTER 35
FIRE DEPARTMENT
 
35.01 Establishment and Purpose 35.08 Obedience to Fire Chief
35.02 Organization              35.09 Constitution
35.03 Approved by Council       35.10 Accidental Injury Insurance
35.04 Training                  35.11 Liability Insurance
35.05 Compensation              35.12 Calls Outside City
35.06 Election of Officers      35.13 Mutual Aid
35.07 Duties of Fire Chief      35.14 Authority to Cite Violations
 
35.01   ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
A volunteer fire department is hereby established to prevent and extinguish
fires and to protect lives and property against fires, to promote fire
prevention and fire safety, and to answer all emergency calls for which there
is no other established agency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.16)
35.02   ORGANIZATION.
The department consists of the Fire Chief and such other officers and personnel
as may be authorized by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
35.03   APPROVED BY COUNCIL.
No person having otherwise qualified shall be appointed to the department until
such appointment is submitted to and approved by a majority of the Council
members.
35.04   TRAINING.
All members of the department shall meet the minimum training standards
established by the State Fire Marshal and attend and actively participate in
regular or special training drills or programs as directed by the Fire Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100B.2[4])
35.05   COMPENSATION.
Members of the department shall be designated by rank and receive such
compensation as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
35.06   ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
The department shall elect a Fire Chief and such other officers as its
constitution and bylaws may provide, but the election of the Fire Chief shall
be subject to the approval of the Council. In case of absence of the Fire
Chief, the officer next in rank shall be in charge and have and exercise all
the powers of Fire Chief.
35.07   DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
The Fire Chief shall perform all duties required of the Fire Chief by law or
ordinance, including (but not limited to) the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Enforce Laws. Enforce ordinances and laws regulating fire prevention
and the investigation of the cause, origin, and circumstances of fires.
   2.   Technical Assistance. Upon request, give advice concerning private fire
alarm systems, fire extinguishing equipment, fire escapes and exits, and
development of fire emergency plans.
   3.   Authority at Fires. When in charge of a fire scene, direct an operation
as necessary to extinguish or control a fire, perform a rescue operation,
investigate the existence of a suspected or reported fire, gas leak, or other
hazardous condition, or take any other action deemed necessary in the
reasonable performance of the department’s duties.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
   4.   Control of Scenes. Prohibit an individual, vehicle, or vessel from
approaching a fire scene and remove from the scene any object, vehicle, vessel,
or individual that may impede or interfere with the operation of the Fire
Department.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
   5.   Authority to Barricade. When in charge of a fire scene, place or erect
ropes, guards, barricades, or other obstructions across a street, alley, right-
of-way, or private property near the location of the fire or emergency so as to
prevent accidents or interference with the firefighting efforts of the Fire
Department, to control the scene until any required investigation is complete,
or to preserve evidence related to the fire or other emergency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.3)
   6.   Command. Be charged with the duty of maintaining the efficiency,
discipline, and control of the Fire Department. The members of the Fire
Department shall, at all times, be subject to the direction of the Fire Chief.
   7.   Property. Exercise and have full control over the disposition of all
fire apparatus, tools, equipment, and other property used by or belonging to
the Fire Department.
   8.   Notification. Whenever death, serious bodily injury, or property damage
in excess of $200,000.00 has occurred as a result of a fire, or if arson is
suspected, notify the State Fire Marshal’s Division immediately. For all other
fires causing an estimated damage of $50.00 or more or emergency responses by
the Fire Department, file a report with the State Fire Marshal’s Division
within 10 days following the end of the month. The report shall indicate all
fire incidents occurring and state the name of the owners and occupants of the
property at the time of the fire, the value of the property, the estimated
total loss to the property, origin of the fire as determined by investigation,
and other facts, statistics, and circumstances concerning the fire incidents.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.2 and 100.3)
   9.   Right of Entry. Have the right, during reasonable hours, to enter any
building or premises within the Fire Chief’s jurisdiction for the purpose of
making such investigation or inspection that under law or ordinance may be
necessary to be made and that is reasonably necessary to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 10A.514)
   10.   Recommendation. Make such recommendations to owners, occupants,
caretakers, or managers of buildings necessary to eliminate fire hazards.
   11.   Assist State Fire Marshal. At the request of the State Fire Marshal,
and as provided by law, aid said marshal in the performance of duties by
investigating, preventing, and reporting data pertaining to fires.
   12.   Records. Cause to be kept records of the Fire Department personnel,
firefighting equipment, depreciation of all equipment and apparatus, the number
of responses to alarms, their cause, and location, and an analysis of losses by
value, type, and location of buildings.
   13.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report
of the status and activities of the department as well as such other reports as
may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
35.08   OBEDIENCE TO FIRE CHIEF.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of the Fire Chief.
35.09   CONSTITUTION.
The department shall adopt a constitution and bylaws as they deem calculated to
accomplish the object contemplated, and such constitution and bylaws and any
change or amendment to such constitution and bylaws before being effective,
must be approved by the Council.
35.10   ACCIDENTAL INJURY INSURANCE.
The Council shall contract to insure the City against liability for worker’s
compensation and against statutory liability for the costs of hospitalization,
nursing, and medical attention for volunteer firefighters injured in the
performance of their duties as firefighters whether within or outside the
corporate limits of the City. All volunteer firefighters shall be covered by
the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 85.2, 85.61, and Sec. 410.18)
35.11   LIABILITY INSURANCE.
The Council shall contract to insure against liability of the City or members
of the department for injuries, death, or property damage arising out of and
resulting from the performance of departmental duties within or outside the
corporate limits of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 670.2 and 517A.1)
35.12   CALLS OUTSIDE CITY.
The department shall answer calls to fires and other emergencies outside the
City limits if the Fire Chief determines that such emergency exists and that
such action will not endanger persons and property within the City limits.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 and 3])
35.13   MUTUAL AID.
Subject to approval by resolution of the Council, the department may enter into
mutual aid agreements with other legally constituted fire departments. Copies
of any such agreements shall be filed with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 and 3])
35.14   AUTHORITY TO CITE VIOLATIONS.
Fire officials acting under the authority of Chapter 10A, Subchapter V, Part 2
of the Code of Iowa, may issue citations in accordance with Chapter 805 of the
Code of Iowa, for violations of Chapter 10A, Subchapter V, Part 2 of the Code
of Iowa or a violation of a local fire safety code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.41)
CHAPTER 40
PUBLIC PEACE
 
40.01 Assault            40.04 Failure to Disperse
40.02 Harassment         40.05 Sound Amplification Systems
40.03 Disorderly Conduct  
 
40.01   ASSAULT.
No person shall, without justification, commit any of the following:
   1.   Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to cause pain or injury to
another or that is intended to result in physical contact that will be
insulting or offensive to another, coupled with the apparent ability to execute
the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[1])
   2.   Threat of Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to place another in
fear of immediate physical contact which will be painful, injurious, insulting,
or offensive, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[2])
   An act described in Subsections 1 and 2 shall not be an assault under the
following circumstances: (i) if the person doing any of the enumerated acts,
and such other person, are voluntary participants in a sport, social or other
activity, not in itself criminal, and such act is a reasonably foreseeable
incident of such sport or activity, and does not create an unreasonable risk of
serious injury or breach of the peace; (ii) if the person doing any of the
enumerated acts is employed by a school district or accredited nonpublic
school, or is an area education agency staff member who provides services to a
school or school district, and intervenes in a fight or physical struggle or
other disruptive situation that takes place in the presence of the employee or
staff member performing employment duties in a school building, on school
grounds, or at an official school function, regardless of the location, whether
the fight or physical struggle or other disruptive situation is between
students or other individuals, if the degree and the force of the intervention
is reasonably necessary to restore order and to protect the safety of those
assembled.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1)
40.02   HARASSMENT.
No person shall commit harassment.
   1.   A person commits harassment when, with intent to intimidate, annoy, or
alarm another person, the person does any of the following:
      A.   Communicates with another by telephone, telegraph, writing, or via
electronic communication without legitimate purpose and in a manner likely to
cause the other person annoyance or harm.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      B.   Places any simulated explosive or simulated incendiary device in or
near any building, vehicle, airplane, railroad engine or railroad car, or boat
occupied by the other person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      C.   Orders merchandise or services in the name of another, or to be
delivered to another, without such other person’s knowledge or consent.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      D.   Reports or causes to be reported false information to a law
enforcement authority implicating another in some criminal activity, knowing
that the information is false, or reports the alleged occurrence of a criminal
act, knowing the same did not occur.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   2.   A person commits harassment when the person, purposefully and without
legitimate purpose, has personal contact with another person, with the intent
to threaten, intimidate or alarm that other person. As used in this section,
unless the context otherwise requires, “personal contact” means an encounter in
which two or more people are in visual or physical proximity to each other.
“Personal contact” does not require a physical touching or oral communication,
although it may include these types of contacts.
40.03   DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
No person shall do any of the following:
   1.   Fighting. Engage in fighting or violent behavior in any public place or
in or near any lawful assembly of persons, provided that participants in
athletic contests may engage in such conduct that is reasonably related to that
sport.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1a])
   2.   Noise. Make loud and raucous noise in the vicinity of any residence or
public building which intentionally or recklessly causes unreasonable distress
to the occupants thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1b])
   3.   Sound Amplification System. Use or operate or permit the operation of
any sound amplification system in such a manner that it can be heard more than
75 feet from where the sound amplification system is being used or operated
unless it is an approved public event.
   4.   Abusive Language. Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening
gesture that the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a
violent reaction by another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1c])
   5.   Disrupt Lawful Assembly. Without lawful authority or color of
authority, disturb any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by conduct
intended to disrupt the meeting or assembly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1d])
   6.   False Report of Catastrophe. By words or action, initiate or circulate
a report or warning of fire, epidemic, or other catastrophe, knowing such
report to be false or such warning to be baseless.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1e])
   7.   Disrespect of Flag. Knowingly and publicly use the flag of the United
States in such a manner as to show disrespect for the flag as a symbol of the
United States, with the intent or reasonable expectation that such use will
provoke or encourage another to commit trespass or assault. As used in this
subsection:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1f])
      A.   “Deface” means to intentionally mar the external appearance.
      B.   “Defile” means to intentionally make physically unclean.
      C.   “Flag” means a piece of woven cloth or other material designed to be
flown from a pole or mast.
      D.   “Mutilate” means to intentionally cut up or alter so as to make
imperfect.
      E.   “Show disrespect” means to deface, defile, mutilate, or trample.
      F.   “Trample” means to intentionally tread upon or intentionally cause a
machine, vehicle, or animal to tread upon.
   8.   Funeral or Memorial Service. Within 1,000 feet of the building or other
location where a funeral or memorial service is being conducted, or within
1,000 feet of a funeral procession or burial:
      A.   Make loud and raucous noise that causes unreasonable distress to the
persons attending the funeral or memorial service or participating in the
funeral procession.
      B.   Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture that the
person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent reaction
by another.
      C.   Disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial service, funeral
procession, or burial by conduct intended to disturb or disrupt the funeral,
memorial service, funeral procession, or burial.
This subsection applies to conduct within 60 minutes preceding, during, and
within 60 minutes after a funeral, memorial service, funeral procession, or
burial.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5)
40.04   FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
A peace officer may order the participants in a riot or unlawful assembly or
persons in the immediate vicinity of a riot or unlawful assembly to disperse.
No person within hearing distance of such command shall refuse to obey.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.3)
40.05   SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS.
No person in control of any motor vehicle within the City shall operate or
permit operation of any sound amplification system in such a manner that it can
be heard from outside the vehicle more than 75 feet from said vehicle. This
section does not apply:
   1.   When said system is being operated in such a manner to request
assistance or warn of a hazardous situation, or
   2.   To authorized emergency vehicles or outside service vehicles with
outside vehicle speakers while engaged in the providing of service within the
public right-of-way.
CHAPTER 41
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
                                                         41.08 Abandoned or
41.01 Distributing Dangerous Substances                  Unattended
                                                         Refrigerators
41.02 False Reports to or Communications with Public     41.09 Antenna and
Safety Entities                                          Radio Wires
41.03 Providing False Identification Information         41.10 Barbed Wire and
                                                         Electric Fences
41.04 Refusing to Assist Officer                         41.11 Discharging
                                                         Weapons
41.05 Harassment of Public Officers and Employees        41.12 Throwing and
                                                         Shooting
41.06 Interference with Official Acts                    41.13 Urinating and
                                                         Defecating
41.07 Removal of an Officer’s Communication or Control 41.14 Fireworks
Device
                                                        41.15 Drug
                                                         Paraphernalia
                                                        41.16 Failure to
                                                         Assist
 
41.01   DISTRIBUTING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
No person shall distribute samples of any drugs or medicine, or any corrosive,
caustic, poisonous, or other injurious substance unless the person delivers
such into the hands of a competent person, or otherwise takes reasonable
precautions that the substance will not be taken by children or animals from
the place where the substance is deposited.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.1)
41.02   FALSE REPORTS TO OR COMMUNICATIONS WITH PUBLIC SAFETY ENTITIES.
No person shall do any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.6)
   1.   Report or cause to be reported false information to a fire department,
a law enforcement authority, or other public safety entity, knowing that the
information is false, or report the alleged occurrence of a criminal act
knowing the act did not occur.
   2.   Telephone an emergency 911 communications center, knowing that they are
not reporting an emergency or otherwise needing emergency information or
assistance.
   3.   Knowingly provide false information to a law enforcement officer who
enters the information on a citation.
41.03   PROVIDING FALSE IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION.
No person shall knowingly provide false identification information to anyone
known by the person to be a peace officer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, in the performance of any act that is
within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, emergency
medical care provider, or firefighter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1A)
41.04   REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
Any person who is requested or ordered by any magistrate or peace officer to
render the magistrate or officer assistance in making or attempting to make an
arrest, or to prevent the commission of any criminal act, shall render
assistance as required. No person shall unreasonably and without lawful cause,
refuse or neglect to render assistance when so requested.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.2)
41.05   HARASSMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
No person shall willfully prevent or attempt to prevent any public officer or
employee from performing the officer’s or employee’s duty.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.4)
41.06   INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTS.
No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct anyone known by the person to be a
peace officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider under Chapter 147A of
the Code of Iowa, medical examiner, or firefighter, whether paid or volunteer,
or a person performing bailiff duties pursuant to Section 602.1303[4] of the
Code of Iowa, in the performance of any act that is within the scope of the
lawful duty or authority of that officer, jailer, emergency medical care
provider, medical examiner, or firefighter, or person performing bailiff
duties, or shall knowingly resist or obstruct the service or execution by any
authorized person of any civil or criminal process or order of any court. The
terms “resist” and “obstruct” as used in this section do not include verbal
harassment unless the verbal harassment is accompanied by a present ability and
apparent intention to execute a verbal threat physically.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1)
41.07   REMOVAL OF AN OFFICER’S COMMUNICATION OR CONTROL DEVICE.
No person shall knowingly or intentionally remove or attempt to remove a
communication device or any device used for control from the possession of a
peace officer or correctional officer, when the officer is in the performance
of any act which is within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that
officer and the person knew or should have known the individual to be an
officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.12)
41.08   ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED REFRIGERATORS.
No person shall abandon or otherwise leave unattended any refrigerator, ice
box, or similar container, with doors that may become locked, outside of
buildings and accessible to children, nor shall any person allow any such
refrigerator, ice box, or similar container, to remain outside of buildings on
premises in the person’s possession or control, abandoned or unattended and so
accessible to children.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.3)
41.09   ANTENNA AND RADIO WIRES.
It is unlawful for a person to allow antenna wires, antenna supports, radio
wires, or television wires to exist over any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
public way, public ground, or public building without written consent of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.10   BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
It is unlawful for a person to use barbed wire or electric fences to enclose
land within the City limits without the written consent of the Council unless
such land consists of 10 acres or more and is used as agricultural land.
41.11   DISCHARGING WEAPONS.
   1.   It is unlawful for a person to discharge rifles, shotguns, revolvers,
pistols, guns, or other firearms of any kind within the City limits except by
written consent of the Council.
   2.   No person shall intentionally discharge a firearm in a reckless manner.
41.12   THROWING AND SHOOTING.
It is unlawful for a person to throw stones, bricks, or missiles of any kind or
to shoot arrows, paintballs, rubber guns, slingshots, air rifles, BB guns, or
other dangerous instruments or toys on or into any street, alley, highway,
sidewalk, public way, public ground, or public building, without written
consent of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.13   URINATING AND DEFECATING.
It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate onto any sidewalk, street,
alley, or other public way, or onto any public or private building, including
but not limited to the wall, floor, hallway, steps, stairway, doorway, or
window thereof, or onto any public or private land.
41.14   FIREWORKS.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.2)
   1.   Definition. “Fireworks” or “consumer fireworks” as used in this
section, shall mean those items listed or referred to under the definition of
First-Class Consumer Fireworks and Second-Class Consumer Fireworks as set forth
under Chapter 100 of the Code of Iowa.
   2.   No person shall use, explode, or discharge any consumer fireworks on
days other than July 3 through July 5, between the hours of 12:00 p.m. and 10:
00 p.m.; or December 31, between the hours of 12:00 p.m. and continuing through
1:00 a.m. on January 1.
      A.   No person under the age of 18 shall possess or discharge consumer
fireworks without parental supervision. If any person under the age of 18 is
found in possession of or discharging consumer fireworks without parental
supervision such consumer fireworks shall be confiscated.
      B.   A person should only discharge consumer fireworks on real property
where consent has been given.
   3.   Fireworks Permit for Display.
      A.   Supervised public exhibitions or displays shall be conducted only in
accordance with this subsection along with any rules and regulations issued by
the Fire Chief for the area included with the permit application boundaries of
the City.
      B.   Upon written application, the City may grant a permit for the
display of fireworks by a City agency, fair association, or other organizations
or groups as may be approved by the City and when such fireworks to be
displayed are under the direct control of a licensed and competent operator.
Any applications shall have attached thereto proof of insurance with limits not
less than $2,000,000.00 per occurrence and $5,000,000.00 aggregate.
      C.   No person shall use, explode, discharge, possess, or display
fireworks or consumer fireworks on any publicly-owned property unless
authorized under this section.
   4.   Fireworks Permit for Sale.
      A.   No person, retailer, consumer group, or otherwise shall sell or
display any fireworks without possessing a consumer fireworks seller license as
required under Chapter 100 of the Code of Iowa, without possessing a permit as
required under Chapter 122 of this Code of Ordinances, and without providing
evidence of insurance in the amounts not less than $2,000,000.00 per occurrence
and $5,000,000.00 in the aggregate.
      B.   The sale or display of fireworks shall only occur within permanent
primary structures. No sale or display of fireworks shall occur within 250 feet
of the following:
         (1)   Any residential use, zoning district, or area designated for
residential use on the City’s adopted future land use plan.
         (2)   Schools, child daycare centers, day nurseries, and nursing
schools.
         (3)   Nursing homes, adult daycare centers, hospitals, and medical
clinics.
         (4)   Underground pipelines, local gas service facilities, or any
electrical transmission lines or electrical transformers.
         (5)   Fire zone.
   5.   Enforcement.
      A.   The Police Chief, or designees, is charged with the duty of
enforcing these provisions.
      B.   The penalty for violation of this chapter shall include confiscation
or destruction of any fireworks or consumer fireworks in addition to any fine
imposed.
41.15   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 124.414)
   1.   As used in this section “drug paraphernalia” means all equipment,
products or materials of any kind used or attempted to be used in combination
with a controlled substance, except those items used in combination with the
lawful use of a controlled substance, to knowingly or intentionally and
primarily do any of the following:
      A.   Manufacture a controlled substance.
      B.   Inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance.
      C.   Test the strength, effectiveness, or purity of a controlled
substance.
      D.   Enhance the effect of a controlled substance.
   Drug paraphernalia does not include hypodermic needles or syringes if
manufactured, delivered, sold, or possessed for a lawful purpose.
   2.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally
manufacture, deliver, sell, or possess drug paraphernalia.
41.16   FAILURE TO ASSIST.
A person who reasonably believes another person is suffering from a risk of
serious bodily injury or imminent danger of death shall, if the person is able,
attempt to contact local law enforcement or local emergency response
authorities, if doing so does not place the person or other person at risk of
serious bodily injury or imminent danger of death. No person shall without
lawful cause violate the provisions of this section. A person shall not be
required to contact local law enforcement or emergency response authorities if
the person knows or reasonably believes that the other person is not in need of
help or assistance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.12)
CHAPTER 42
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
 
42.01 Trespassing                       42.05 Fraud
42.02 Criminal Mischief                 42.06 Theft
42.03 Defacing Proclamations or Notices 42.07 Other Public Property Offenses
42.04 Unauthorized Entry                 
 
42.01   TRESPASSING.
   1.   Prohibited. It is unlawful for a person to knowingly trespass upon the
property of another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.8)
   2.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[1])
      A.   “Property” includes any land, dwelling, building, conveyance,
vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure, whether publicly or
privately owned.
      B.   “Public utility” is a public utility as defined in Section 476.1 of
the Code of Iowa or an electric transmission line as provided in Chapter 478 of
the Code of Iowa.
      C.   “Public utility property” means any land, dwelling, building,
conveyance, vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure owned, leased,
or operated by a public utility and that is completely enclosed by a physical
barrier of any kind.
      D.   “Railway corporation” means a corporation, company, or person
owning, leasing, or operating any railroad in whole or in part within this
State.
      E.   “Railway property” means all tangible real and personal property
owned, leased, or operated by a railway corporation, with the exception of any
administrative building or offices of the railway corporation.
      F.   “Trespass” means one or more of the following acts:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2a])
         (1)   Entering upon or in property without the express permission of
the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession with the intent to commit a
public offense or to use, remove therefrom, alter, damage, harass, or place
thereon or therein anything animate or inanimate.
         (2)   Entering or remaining upon or in property without justification
after being notified or requested to abstain from entering or to remove or
vacate therefrom by the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or the
agent or employee of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or by
any peace officer, magistrate, or public employee whose duty it is to supervise
the use or maintenance of the property.
         (3)   Entering upon or in property for the purpose or with the effect
of unduly interfering with the lawful use of the property by others.
         (4)   Being upon or in property and wrongfully using, removing
therefrom, altering, damaging, harassing, or placing thereon or therein
anything animate or inanimate, without the implied or actual permission of the
owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession.
         (5)   Entering or remaining upon or in railway property without lawful
authority or without the consent of the railway corporation which owns, leases,
or operates the railway property. This paragraph does not apply to passage over
a railroad right-of-way, other than a track, railroad roadbed, viaduct, bridge,
trestle, or railroad yard, by an unarmed person if the person has not been
notified or requested to abstain from entering onto the right-of-way or to
vacate the right-of-way and the passage over the right-of-way does not
interfere with the operation of the railroad.
         (6)   Entering or remaining upon or in public utility property without
lawful authority or without the consent of the public utility that owns,
leases, or operates the public utility property. This paragraph does not apply
to passage over public utility right-of-way by a person if the person has not
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering onto the right-of-way or to vacate the right-of-way.
   3.   Specific Exceptions. “Trespass” does not mean either of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2b])
      A.   Entering upon the property of another for the sole purpose of
retrieving personal property which has accidentally or inadvertently been
thrown, fallen, strayed, or blown onto the property of another, provided that
the person retrieving the property takes the most direct and accessible route
to and from the property to be retrieved, quits the property as quickly as is
possible, and does not unduly interfere with the lawful use of the property.
This paragraph does not apply to public utility property where the person has
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering.
      B.   Entering upon the right-of-way of a public road or highway.
42.02   CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
It is unlawful, for any person who has no right to do so, to intentionally
damage, deface, alter, or destroy property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.03   DEFACING PROCLAMATIONS OR NOTICES.
It is unlawful for a person intentionally to deface, obliterate, tear down, or
destroy in whole or in part, any transcript or extract from or of any law of
the United States or the State, or any proclamation, advertisement, or
notification, set up at any place within the City by authority of the law or by
order of any court, during the time for which the same is to remain set up.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.04   UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.
No unauthorized person shall enter or remain in or upon any public building,
premises, or grounds in violation of any notice posted thereon or when said
building, premises or grounds are closed and not open to the public. When open
to the public, a failure to pay any required admission fee also constitutes an
unauthorized entry.
42.05   FRAUD.
It is unlawful for any person to commit a fraudulent practice as defined in
Section 714.8 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.8)
42.06   THEFT.
It is unlawful for any person to commit theft as defined in Section 714.1 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
42.07   OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other activities or conditions that are also deemed
to be public property offenses:
   1.   Chapter 22 – Library
      A.   Section
22.11 – Injury to Books or Property
      B.   Section
22.12 – Theft of Library Property
   2.   Chapter 105 – Solid Waste Control and Recycling
      A.   Section
105.07 – Littering Prohibited
   3.   Chapter 135 – Street Use and Maintenance
      A.   Section
135.01 – Removal of Warning Devices
      B.   Section
135.02 – Obstructing or Defacing
      C.   Section
135.03 – Placing Debris On
      D.   Section
135.04 – Playing In
      E.   Section
135.05 – Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley
      F.   Section
135.08 – Burning Prohibited
      G.   Section
135.12 – Dumping of Snow
   4.   Chapter 136 – Sidewalk Regulations
      A.   Section
136.11 – Interference with Sidewalk Improvements
      B.   Section
136.15 – Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
      C.   Section
136.16 – Defacing
      D.   Section
136.17 – Debris on Sidewalks
      E.   Section
136.18 – Merchandise Display
      F.   Section
136.19 – Sales Stands
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.6B)
CHAPTER 45
ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION AND INTOXICATION
 
45.01 Persons Under Legal Age 45.03 Open Containers in Motor Vehicles
45.02 Public Consumption or   45.04 Social Host
Intoxication
 
45.01   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
As used in this section, “legal age” means 21 years of age or more.  
   1.   A person or persons under legal age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase, consume, or individually or jointly have alcoholic beverages in their
possession or control; except in the case of any alcoholic beverage given or
dispensed to a person under legal age within a private home and with the
knowledge, presence, and consent of the parent or guardian, for beverage or
medicinal purposes or as administered to the person by either a physician or
dentist for medicinal purposes and except to the extent that a person under
legal age may handle alcoholic beverages during the regular course of the
person’s employment by a retail alcohol licensee, or wine or beer permittee
under State laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47[3])
   2.   A person under legal age shall not misrepresent the person’s age for
the purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic beverage from
any retail alcohol licensee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[3])
45.02   PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OR INTOXICATION.
   1.   As used in this section unless the context otherwise requires:
      A.   “Arrest” means the same as defined in Section 804.5 of the Code of
Iowa and includes taking into custody pursuant to Section 232.19 of the Code of
Iowa.
      B.   “Chemical test” means a test of a person’s blood, breath, or urine
to determine the percentage of alcohol present by a qualified person using
devices and methods approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
      C.   “Peace officer” means the same as defined in Section 801.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
      D.   “School” means a public or private school or that portion of a
public or private school that provides teaching for any grade from kindergarten
through Grade 12.
   2.   A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer upon
the public streets or highways. A person shall not use or consume alcoholic
liquor in any public place, except premises covered by a retail alcohol
license. A person shall not possess or consume alcoholic liquors, wine, or beer
on public school property or while attending any public or private school-
related function. A person shall not be intoxicated in a public place.
   3.   A person shall not simulate intoxication in a public place.
   4.   When a peace officer arrests a person on a charge of public
intoxication under this section, the peace officer shall inform the person that
the person may have a chemical test administered at the person’s own expense.
If a device approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety for testing a sample
of a person’s breath to determine the person’s blood alcohol concentration is
available, that is the only test that need be offered the person arrested. In a
prosecution for public intoxication, evidence of the results of a chemical test
performed under this subsection is admissible upon proof of a proper
foundation. The percentage of alcohol present in a person’s blood, breath, or
urine established by the results of a chemical test performed within two hours
after the person’s arrest on a charge of public intoxication is presumed to be
the percentage of alcohol present at the time of arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.46)
45.03   OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
[See Section
62.01(50) and (51) of this Code of Ordinances.]
45.04   SOCIAL HOST.
A person who is the owner or lessee of, or who otherwise has control over,
property that is not a licensed premises shall not knowingly permit any person,
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the person to be under the age of
18, to consume or possess on such property any alcoholic beverage. The
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a landlord or manager of the
property or to a person under legal age who consumes or possesses any alcoholic
beverage in connection with a religious observance, ceremony, or rite.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47)
CHAPTER 46
MINORS
 
46.01 Curfew                 46.03 Contributing to Delinquency
46.02 Cigarettes and Tobacco  
 
46.01   CURFEW.
The Council has determined that a curfew for minors is necessary to promote the
public health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the City and specifically
to reinforce the primary authority and responsibility of adults responsible for
minors; to protect the public from the illegal acts of minors committed after
the curfew hour; and to protect minors from improper influences and criminal
activity that prevail in public places after the curfew hour.
   1.   Definitions. For use in this section, the following terms are defined:
      A.   “Emergency errand” means, but is not limited to, an errand relating
to a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any other situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious illness, bodily injury, or loss
of life.
      B.   “Home” means the minor’s dwelling place. It need not be the minor’s
permanent dwelling place.
      C.   “Knowingly” means knowledge that a responsible adult should
reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that
responsible adult’s custody. It is intended to continue to hold the neglectful
or careless adult responsible for a minor to a reasonable standard of adult
responsibility through an objective test. It is therefore no defense that an
adult responsible for a minor was completely indifferent to the activities or
conduct or whereabouts of the minor.
      D.   “Minor” means any unemancipated person under the age of 18 years.
      E.   “Nonsecured custody” means custody in an unlocked multipurpose area,
such as a lobby, office or interrogation room that is not designed, set aside,
or used as a secure detention area, and the person arrested is not physically
secured during the period of custody in the area; the person is physically
accompanied by a law enforcement officer or a person employed by the facility
where the person arrested is being held; and the use of the area is limited to
providing nonsecured custody only while awaiting transfer to an appropriate
juvenile facility or to court, for contacting of and release to the person’s
parents or other responsible adult or for other administrative purposes; but
not for longer than six hours without the oral or written order of a judge or
magistrate authorizing the detention. A judge shall not extend the period of
time in excess of six hours beyond the initial six-hour period.
      F.   “Public place” includes stores, parking lots, parks, playgrounds,
streets, alleys, and sidewalks dedicated to public use and also includes such
parts of buildings and other premises, whether publicly or privately owned,
that are used by the general public or to which the general public is invited
commercially for a fee or otherwise; or in or on which the general public is
permitted without specific invitation; or to which the general public has
access. For purposes of this section, a vehicle or other conveyance is
considered to be a public place when in the areas defined above.
      G.   “Responsible adult” means a parent, guardian or other adult
specifically authorized by law or authorized by a parent or guardian to have
custody or control of a minor.
      H.   “Unemancipated” means unmarried and/or still under the custody or
control of a responsible adult.
   2.   Curfew Established. It is unlawful for any minor to be or remain in any
public place in the City between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. of any
day.
   3.   Exceptions. The following are exceptions to the curfew:
      A.   The minor is accompanied by a responsible adult.
      B.   The minor is on the sidewalk or property where the minor resides or
on either side of the place where the minor resides and the adult responsible
for the minor has given permission for the minor to be there.
      C.   The minor is present at or is traveling between home and one of the
following:
         (1)   Minor’s place of employment in a business, trade or occupation
in which the minor is permitted by law to be engaged or, if traveling, within
one-half hour after the end or before the beginning of work;
         (2)   Minor’s place of religious activity or, if traveling, within
one-half hour after the end or before the beginning of the religious activity;
         (3)   Governmental or political activity or, if traveling, within one-
half hour after the end or before the beginning of the activity;
         (4)   School activity or, if traveling, within one-half hour after the
end or before the beginning of the activity;
         (5)   Assembly such as a march, protest, demonstration, sit-in or
meeting of an association for the advancement of economic, political, religious
or cultural matters, or for any other activity protected by the First Amendment
of the U.S. Constitution guarantees of free exercise of religion, freedom of
speech, freedom of assembly or, if traveling, within one-half hour after the
end or before the beginning of the activity;
      D.   The minor is on an emergency errand for a responsible adult;
      E.   The minor is engaged in interstate travel through the City
beginning, ending, or passing through the City when such travel is by direct
route.
   4.   Responsibility of Adults. It is unlawful for any responsible adult
knowingly to permit or to allow a minor to be in any public place in the City
within the time periods prohibited by this section unless the minor’s presence
falls within one of the above exceptions.
   5.   Enforcement Procedures.
      A.   Determination of Age. In determining the age of the juvenile and in
the absence of convincing evidence such as a birth certificate or driver’s
license, a law enforcement officer on the street shall, in the first instance,
use their best judgment in determining age.
      B.   Grounds for Arrest; Conditions of Custody. Grounds for arrest are
that the person refuses to sign the citation without qualification; persists in
violating the ordinance; refuses to provide proper identification or to
identify himself or herself; or constitutes an immediate threat to the person’s
own safety or to the safety of the public. A law enforcement officer who
arrests a minor for a curfew violation may keep the minor in custody either in
a shelter care facility or in any nonsecured setting. The officer shall not
place bodily restraints, such as handcuffs, on the minor unless the minor
physically resists or threatens physical violence when being taken into
custody. A minor shall not be placed in detention following a curfew violation.
      C.   Notification of Responsible Adult. After a minor is taken into
custody, the law enforcement officer shall notify the adult responsible for the
minor as soon as possible. The minor shall be released to the adult responsible
for the minor upon the promise of such person to produce the child in court at
such time as the court may direct.
      D.   Minor Without Adult Supervision. If a law enforcement officer
determines that a minor does not have adult supervision because the law
enforcement officer cannot locate the minor’s parent, guardian or other person
legally responsible for the care of the minor, within a reasonable time, the
law enforcement officer shall attempt to place the minor with an adult relative
of the minor, an adult person who cares for the child or another adult person
who is known to the child.
   6.   Penalties.
      A.   Responsible Adult’s First Violation. In the case of a first
violation by a minor, the law enforcement officer shall, by certified mail,
send to the adult responsible for the minor, written notice of the violation
with a warning that any subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of
the curfew ordinance against both the responsible adult and minor, with
applicable penalties.
      B.   Responsible Adult’s Second Violation. Any responsible adult as
defined in this section who, following receipt of a warning, knowingly allows
the minor to violate any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
simple misdemeanor.
      C.   Minor’s First Violation. In the case of a first violation by a
minor, the law enforcement officer shall give the minor a written warning,
which states that any subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of
the curfew ordinance against the responsible adult and the minor, with
applicable penalties, or, at the law enforcement officer’s discretion, may
issue the minor a citation for a first violation.
      D.   Minor’s Second Violation. For the minor’s second and subsequent
violations of any of the provisions of this section, the minor is guilty of a
simple misdemeanor.
46.02   CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO.
It is unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to smoke, use, possess,
purchase, or attempt to purchase any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes. Possession of tobacco,
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes
by an individual under 21 years of age shall not constitute a violation of this
section if the individual under 21 years of age possesses the tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes as part
of the person’s employment and said person is employed by a person who holds a
valid permit under Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or who lawfully offers for
sale or sells cigarettes or tobacco products.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2)
46.03   CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY.
It is unlawful for any person to encourage any child under 18 years of age to
commit any act of delinquency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 709A.1)
CHAPTER 47
PARK REGULATIONS
 
47.01 Purpose                47.08 Defacing Property
47.02 Use of Drives Required 47.09 Disturbing of Structures or Animals
47.03 Fires                  47.10 Removal of Park Materials
47.04 Littering              47.11 Age and Supervision
47.05 Parking                47.12 Animals or Pets
47.06 Camping                47.13 Parks Closed
47.07 Nuisance                
 
47.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the enjoyment of park facilities
by the general public by establishing rules and regulations governing the use
of park facilities.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12)
47.02   USE OF DRIVES REQUIRED.
No person shall drive any car, cycle, or other vehicle, or ride or lead any
horse, in any portion of a park except upon the established drives or roadways
therein or such other places as may be officially designated by the City. This
does not include City vehicles, public safety vehicles, other vehicle
performing work for the City, or battery operated wheelchairs, or similar
mobility assistive devices designed for and used by person with mobility
disabilities.
47.03   FIRES.
No fire shall be built, except in a place designated for such purpose, and such
fire shall be extinguished before leaving the area unless it is to be
immediately used by some other party.
47.04   LITTERING.
No person shall place, deposit, or throw any waste, refuse, litter, or foreign
substance in any area or receptacle except those provided for that purpose.
47.05   PARKING.
No person shall park any motor vehicle in any park except in designated parking
areas. Special events will be permissible by Council approval.
47.06   CAMPING.
No person shall camp in any portion of a park except in portions prescribed or
designated by the Council, and the City may refuse camping privileges or
rescind any and all camping privileges for cause.
47.07   NUISANCE.
No person shall use any loud, violent, obscene, or profane language while in
the park, or behave in a disorderly or obscene manner or commit any nuisance
upon the grounds. In addition, all persons shall follow posted rules.
47.08   DEFACING PROPERTY.
No person shall in any manner deface or do damage to any park property, injure,
or remove any tree, shrub, or plant standing or growing in any public park, or
pick or destroy any flowers or seeds growing therein.
47.09   DISTURBING OF STRUCTURES OR ANIMALS.
No person shall disturb or interfere with any building or improvements of any
kind being made in or about the parks, or deface any play equipment or
structures, or disturb or interfere with birds or animals kept or found
therein.
47.10   REMOVAL OF PARK MATERIALS.
No person shall cut or remove any wood, turf, grass, soil, rock, or gravel from
the parks, without written permission from the Council.
47.11   AGE AND SUPERVISION.
All minors under the age of 13 will be supervised by a responsible adult while
at Kids Kingdom. No minors over the age of 14 will be allowed on the premises
unless with a responsible adult.
47.12   ANIMALS OR PETS.
No animals shall be allowed to run at large in any park, such animals shall be
controlled by a leash no longer than six feet. The owner of animals shall
remove all excrement deposited by said owner’s animals and all animals must be
with an adult in compliance with
Chapter 55.
47.13   PARKS CLOSED.
No person shall enter or remain within any park from sunset to sunrise.
CHAPTER 50
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
 
50.01 Definition of Nuisance 50.05 Nuisance Abatement
50.02 Nuisances Enumerated   50.06 Abatement of Nuisance by Written Notice
50.03 Other Conditions       50.07 Municipal Infraction Abatement Procedure
50.04 Nuisances Prohibited   50.08 Adult Establishments
 
50.01   DEFINITION OF NUISANCE.
Whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or unreasonably offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is a
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.1)
50.02   NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions that are
deemed to be nuisances in the City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.2)
   1.   Offensive Smells. Erecting, continuing, or using any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture that, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, unreasonably offensive smells, or other
annoyances, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort, or property
of individuals or the public.
   2.   Filth or Noisome Substance. Causing or suffering any offal, filth, or
noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place to the prejudice of
others.
   3.   Impeding Passage of Navigable River. Obstructing or impeding without
legal authority the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or collection of
water.
   4.   Water Pollution. Corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the
water of any river, stream, or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from its
natural course or state, to the injury or prejudice of others.
   5.   Blocking Public and Private Ways. Obstructing or encumbering, by
fences, buildings or otherwise, the public roads, private ways, streets,
alleys, commons, landing places, or burying grounds.
   6.   Billboards. Billboards, signboards, and advertising signs, whether
erected and constructed on public or private property, that so obstruct and
impair the view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway,
boulevard, or alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render
dangerous the use thereof. (See also Section
62.06) 
   7.   Storing of Flammable Junk. Depositing or storing of flammable junk,
such as old rags, rope, cordage, rubber, bones and paper, by dealers in such
articles within the fire limits of the City, unless in a building of fireproof
construction. (See also
Chapter 51) 
   8.   Air Pollution. Emission of dense smoke, noxious fumes, or fly ash.
   9.   Weeds, Brush. Dense growth of all weeds, vines, brush, or other
vegetation in the City so as to constitute a health, safety, or fire hazard.
   10.   Dutch Elm Disease. Trees infected with Dutch elm disease. (See also
Chapter 151)
   11.   Airport Air Space. Any object or structure hereafter erected within
1,000 feet of the limits of any municipal or regularly established airport or
landing place, which may endanger or obstruct aerial navigation including take-
off and landing, unless such object or structure constitutes a proper use or
enjoyment of the land on which the same is located.
   12.   Houses of Ill Fame. Houses of ill fame, kept for the purpose of
prostitution and lewdness; gambling houses; places resorted to by persons
participating in criminal gang activity prohibited by Chapter 723A of the Code
of Iowa or places resorted to by persons using controlled substances, as
defined in Section 124.101 of the Code of Iowa, in violation of law, or houses
where drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, or breaches of the peace are carried
on or permitted to the disturbance of others.
50.03   OTHER CONDITIONS.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other conditions that are deemed to be nuisances:
   1.   Junk and Junk Vehicles (See
Chapter 51)
   2.   Storage and Disposal of Solid Waste (See
Chapter 105)
   3.   Dangerous Buildings (See
Chapter 145)
   4.   Trees (See
Chapter 151)
50.04   NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited, and a nuisance, public
or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in this chapter or State
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.3)
50.05   NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
Whenever any authorized municipal officer finds that a nuisance exists, such
officer has the authority to determine on a case-by-case basis whether to
utilize the nuisance abatement procedure described in Section
50.06 of this chapter or the municipal infraction procedure referred to in
Section
50.07. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
50.06   ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY WRITTEN NOTICE.
Any nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in
this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   1.   Contents of Notice to Property Owner. The notice to abate shall
contain:† 5   
      A.   Description of Nuisance. A description of what constitutes the
nuisance.
      B.   Location of Nuisance. The location of the nuisance.
      C.   Acts Necessary to Abate. A statement of the act or acts necessary to
abate the nuisance.
      D.   Reasonable Time. A reasonable time within which to complete the
abatement.
      E.   Assessment of City Costs. A statement that if the nuisance or
condition is not abated as directed and no request for hearing is made within
the time prescribed, the City will abate it and assess the costs against the
property owner.
   2.   Method of Service. The notice may be in the form of an ordinance or
sent by certified mail to the property owner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   3.   Request for Hearing. Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a
hearing with the Council as to whether a nuisance exists. A request for a
hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the Clerk within the time
stated in the notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that a nuisance
exists and it must be abated as ordered. The hearing will be before the Council
at a time and place fixed by the Council. The findings of the Council shall be
conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered abated
within a reasonable time under the circumstances.
   4.   Abatement in Emergency. If it is determined that an emergency exists by
reason of the continuing maintenance of the nuisance or condition, the City may
perform any action that may be required under this chapter without prior
notice. The City shall assess the costs as provided in Subsection 6 of this
section after notice to the property owner under the applicable provisions of
Subsections 1 and 2, and the hearing as provided in Subsection 3.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   5.   Abatement by City. If the person notified to abate a nuisance or
condition neglects or fails to abate as directed, the City may perform the
required action to abate, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred.
The itemized expense account shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall pay such
expenses on behalf of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   6.   Collection of Costs. The Clerk shall send a statement of the total
expense incurred by certified mail to the property owner who has failed to
abide by the notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has not
been paid within one month, the Clerk shall certify the costs to the County
Treasurer and such costs shall then be collected with, and in the same manner
as, general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   7.   Installment Payment of Cost of Abatement. If the amount expended to
abate the nuisance or condition exceeds $500.00, the City may permit the
assessment to be paid in up to 10 annual installments, to be paid in the same
manner and with the same interest rates provided for assessments against
benefited property under State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.13)
   8.   Failure to Abate. Any person causing or maintaining a nuisance who
shall fail or refuse to abate or remove the same within the reasonable time
required and specified in the notice to abate is in violation of this Code of
Ordinances.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: A suggested form of notice for the abatement of nuisances is
  included in the Appendix of this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use
  of this administrative abatement procedure, particularly where cost of abatement
5 is more than minimal or where there is doubt as to whether or not a nuisance does
  in fact exist. If compliance is not secured following notice and hearings, we
  recommend you review the situation with your attorney before proceeding with
  abatement and assessment of costs. Your attorney may recommend proceedings in
  court under Chapter 657 of the Code of Iowa rather than this procedure.
50.07   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
In lieu of the abatement procedures set forth in Section
50.06, the requirements of this chapter may be enforced under the procedures
applicable to municipal infractions as set forth in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
50.08   ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS.
   1.   As used in this section, “adult establishment” means any business that
provides nude or topless dancing or operates any other adult-oriented business.
   2.   A public safety nuisance exists when it is established by clear and
convincing evidence that an owner, manager, employee, contemporaneous patron,
or guest of an adult establishment commits any of the following acts either on
the premises or in any parking lots or areas, including but not limited to
public rights of way, adjacent to the premises:
      A.   Unlawfully discharges a firearm or uses an offensive weapon, as
defined in Section 724.1 of the Code of Iowa, regardless of whether it inflicts
injury or death.
      B.   Assaults another person with a dangerous weapon as defined in
section 702.7 of the Code of Iowa resulting in injury or death.
      C.   Engages in a riot as defined in section 723.1 of the Code of Iowa on
three or more dates within a twelve-month period to which the police respond
and disperse a crowd. The participants need not be the same persons for each
incident.
   3.   When the City Attorney believes a serious threat to the public safety
exists, the City Attorney or any other attorney on behalf of the City Attorney,
may file a suit in equity in the district court without bond seeking abatement
of the public safety nuisance arising from an adult establishment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.12)
CHAPTER 51
JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES
 
51.01 Definitions                       51.04 Exceptions
51.02 Junk and Junk Vehicles Prohibited 51.05 Other Exceptions
51.03 Junk and Junk Vehicles a Nuisance 51.06 Notice to Abate
 
51.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
   1.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries,
paper, trash, debris, waste or junked, dismantled or wrecked automobiles, or
parts of automobiles, or iron, steel, or other old or scrap ferrous or
nonferrous material.
   2.   “Junk vehicle” means any vehicle licensed, unlicensed, or legally
placed in storage with the County Treasurer, stored within the corporate limits
of the City, and which has any of the following characteristics:
      A.   Habitat for Nuisance Animals or Insects. Any vehicle which has
become the habitat for rats, mice, snakes, or any other vermin or insects.
      B.   Flammable Fuel. Any unlicensed vehicle which contains gasoline or
any other flammable fuel.
      C.   Inoperable. Any motor vehicle, if it lacks an engine or two or more
wheels or other structural parts which render said motor vehicle unfit for
legal use, or which cannot be immediately started and moved under its own
power, as demonstrated by the owner to the police officer.
      D.   Unsafe or Unattended. Any vehicle left unattended up on blocks,
jacks, or elevated in any other way which constitutes a threat to the public
health or safety. Any vehicle that has any broken glass or broken or loose
parts, which individually or collectively make the vehicle unsafe or unfit for
legal use or which otherwise constitutes a threat to public health or safety.
      E.   Storage. Any vehicle used as storage for items such as rags, old
rope, batteries, paper, trash bags, machinery, mechanical parts, scrap housing
goods, dead plant material, or any similar material.
      F.   Defective or Obsolete Condition. Any other vehicle which, because of
its defective or obsolete condition, in any other way constitutes a threat to
the public health and safety.
   3.   “Property” means either private or public real property within the
City.
   4.   “Structure” means fully enclosed building that does not allow the
contents to be viewed from the outside (excluding windows). A structure does
not include a carport, car cover, or tarp.
   5.   “Unlicensed” means any vehicle which is not displaying a valid current
registration plate as required by the laws of the State.
   6.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which a person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway or street, excepting devices
moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and
includes without limitation a motor vehicle, automobile, truck, motorcycle,
motor home, camper, tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery, or any combination
thereof.
51.02   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any person to store, accumulate, or allow to remain on any
private property within the corporate limits of the City any junk or junk
vehicle.
51.03   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES A NUISANCE.
It is hereby declared that any junk or junk vehicle upon private property owned
or controlled by the owner of the junk or junk vehicle, unless excepted by
Section
51.04, constitutes a threat to the health and safety of the citizens and is a
nuisance within the meaning of Section 657.1 of the Code of Iowa. If any junk
or junk vehicle is kept upon private property in violation hereof, the owner or
person in control of the property upon which it is stored shall be prima facie
liable for said violation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
51.04   EXCEPTIONS.
The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any junk or a junk vehicle
stored within:
   1.   Structure. A garage or other enclosed structure; or
   2.   Salvage Yard. An auto salvage yard or junk yard lawfully operated
within the City; or
   3.   Lawful Business. Any lawful business within a properly zoned area,
wherein the junk or junk vehicles are necessary to carry out the primary
function of the business. This does not include junk or junk vehicles that have
not been used for excessive periods of time.
51.05   OTHER EXCEPTIONS.
   1.   Race Cars. Vehicles used for racing, if they are under a fitted car
cover and parked on a concrete, asphalt, or rock or gravel parking area.
Parking on grass or other areas of the property would be acceptable if the area
is enclosed by a privacy fence of at least six feet in height.
   2.   Vehicles Being Restored and Parts Cars. Vehicles being restored and
parts cars are acceptable if they are under a fitted car cover and parked on a
concrete, asphalt, rock, or gravel parking area. Parking on grass or other
areas of the property is acceptable if the area is enclosed by a privacy fence
of at least six feet in height. Vehicles being restored must be completed
within one year to qualify for this exception unless an extension is granted by
the Police Chief following a showing of proof that significant progress has
been made toward the restoration. Parts cars will only qualify for this
exception during the actual restoration of the primary vehicle or during any
granted extensions.
   3.   The Police Chief may grant other exceptions, in their discretion, as
long as these exceptions meet the primary intent of this chapter. Any such
exceptions will be in writing and for a specific period of time.
51.06   NOTICE TO ABATE.
Upon discovery of any junk or junk vehicle located upon private property in
violation of Section 51.03, the City shall within five days initiate abatement
procedures as outlined in Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
CHAPTER 52
WEEDS AND GRASS
 
52.01 Purpose                              52.04 Uniform Height Specifications
52.02 Definitions                          52.05 Noxious Weeds
52.03 Cutting Specifications and Standards 52.06 Notice to Abate
of Practice
 
52.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to beautify and preserve the appearance of the
City by requiring property owners and occupants to maintain grass lawns at a
uniform height within the boundaries of their property and on abutting street
right-of-way in order to prevent unsightly, offensive, or nuisance conditions.
52.02   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Curb,” “curb line,” or “curbing” means the outer boundaries of a
street at the edge of that portion of the street usually traveled by vehicular
traffic.
   2.   “Cut” or “mow” means to mechanically maintain the growth of grass,
weeds, or brush at a uniform height.
   3.   “Owner” means a person owning private property in the City and any
person occupying private property in the City.
   4.   “Parking” means that part of a street in the City not covered by a
sidewalk and lying between the lot line or property line and the curb line; or
on unpaved streets, that part of the street lying between the lot line or
property line and that portion of the street usually traveled by vehicular
traffic.
52.03   CUTTING SPECIFICATIONS AND STANDARDS OF PRACTICE.
   1.   Every owner shall cut, mow, and maintain all grass, weeds, and brush
upon the owner’s property and adjacent to the curb line or outer boundary of
any street, which includes the parking area abutting the owner’s property, to a
uniform height as defined in Section 52.04.
   2.   Every owner shall cut, mow, and maintain grass, weeds, and brush
adjacent to the curb line, including the parking area abutting the owner’s
property, in such a manner so as to be in conformity with and at an even height
with all other grass, weeds, or brush growing on the remainder of the owner’s
property.
52.04   UNIFORM HEIGHT SPECIFICATIONS.
Grass, weeds, or brush shall be cut, mowed, and maintained so as not to exceed
the following height specifications:
   1.   Developed Residential Areas - not to exceed six inches.
   2.   Undeveloped Residential Areas - not to exceed six inches.
   3.   Business and Industrial Areas - not to exceed six inches.
   4.   Agriculture Areas - not to exceed 15 inches.
Grass, weeds, and brush which are allowed to grow in excess of the above
specified limitations are deemed to be in violation of this chapter.
52.05   NOXIOUS WEEDS.
It is hereby declared that:
   1.   Every owner shall cut and control noxious weeds upon the owner’s
property and adjacent to the curb line or outer boundary of any street, which
includes the parking area abutting the owner’s property, by cutting noxious
weeds to ground level, or use of herbicides to eliminate or eradicate such
weeds.
   2.   Noxious weeds include any weed growth or plant designated as noxious by
the State Department of Natural Resources rules and regulations or by the Code
of Iowa.
52.06   NOTICE TO ABATE.
Upon discovery of any violations of this chapter, the City may, within five
days, initiate abatement procedures as outlined in
Chapter 50. Any landowner who violates this chapter will be given one notice
per summer, and the City will be authorized to respond to additional violations
without additional written notice being given.
CHAPTER 55
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND CONTROL
55.01 Definitions                  55.12 Owner’s Duty
55.02 Animal Neglect               55.13 Confinement
55.03 Livestock Neglect            55.14 At Large: Impoundment
55.04 Abandonment of Cats and Dogs 55.15 Disposition of Animals
55.05 Livestock                    55.16 Impounding Costs
55.06 At Large Prohibited          55.17 Pet Awards Prohibited
55.07 Damage or Interference       55.18 Tampering With A Rabies Vaccination
                                   Tag
55.08 Annoyance or Disturbance     55.19 Tampering With An Electronic Handling
                                   Device
55.09 Sanitation                   55.20 Tethering Dogs
55.10 Vicious Dogs                 55.21 Dog Kennel Regulations
55.11 Rabies Vaccination           55.22 Urban Chickens
 
55.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
   1.   “Advertise” means to present a commercial message in any medium,
including (but not limited to) print, radio, television, sign, display, label,
tag, or articulation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   2.   “Animal” means a nonhuman vertebrate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.1)
   3.   “Animal shelter” means a facility which is used to house or contain
dogs or cats, or both, and which is owned, operated, or maintained by an
incorporated humane society, animal welfare society, society for the prevention
of cruelty to animals, or other nonprofit organization devoted to the welfare,
protection, and humane treatment of such animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
   4.   “At large” means off the premises of the owner and not under the
control of a competent person, restrained within a motor vehicle, or housed in
a veterinary hospital or kennel.
   5.   “Business” means any enterprise relating to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
      A.   The sale or offer for sale of goods or services.
      B.   A recruitment for employment or membership in an organization.
      C.   A solicitation to make an investment.
      D.   An amusement or entertainment activity.
   6.   “Commercial establishment” means an animal shelter, boarding kennel,
commercial breeder, commercial kennel, dealer, pet shop, pound, public auction,
or research facility.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
   7.   “Fair” means any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
      A.   The annual fair and exposition held by the Iowa State Fair Board
pursuant to Chapter 173 of the Code of Iowa or any fair event conducted by a
fair under the provisions of Chapter 174 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   An exhibition of agricultural or manufactured products.
      C.   An event for operation of amusement rides or devices or concession
booths.
   8.   “Game” means a “game of chance” or “game of skill” as defined in
Section 99B.1 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   9.   “Injury” means an animal’s disfigurement; the impairment of an animal’s
health; or an impairment to the functioning of an animal’s limb or organ, or
the loss of an animal’s limb or organ.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
   10.   “Livestock” means an animal belonging to the bovine, caprine, equine,
ovine or porcine species, ostriches, rheas, and emus; farm deer (as defined in
Section 170.1 of the Code of Iowa); or poultry (excluding female chickens).
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.1)
   11.   “Owner” means any person owning, keeping, sheltering, or harboring an
animal.
   12.   “Pet” means a living dog, cat, or an animal normally maintained in a
small tank or cage in or near a residence, including but not limited to a
rabbit, gerbil, hamster, mouse, parrot, canary, mynah, finch, tropical fish,
goldfish, snake, turtle, gecko, or iguana.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   13.   “Pound” means a facility for the prevention of cruelty to animals
operated by the State, a municipal corporation, or other political subdivision
of the State for the purpose of impounding or harboring seized stray, homeless,
abandoned, or unwanted dogs, cats, or other animals; or a facility operated for
such a purpose under a contract with any municipal corporation or incorporated
society.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
   14.   “Research facility” means any school or college of medicine,
veterinary medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, or osteopathic medicine, or hospital,
diagnostic or research laboratories, or other educational or scientific
establishment situated in the State concerned with the investigation of, or
instruction concerning the structure or function of living organisms, the
cause, prevention, control, or cure of diseases or abnormal conditions of human
beings or animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
   15.   “Tethering” means the act of tying an animal with rope, chain, or
other similar item so as to restrict its movement.
   16.   “Veterinarian” means a veterinarian licensed pursuant to Chapter 169
of the Code of Iowa who practices veterinary medicine in the State.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
55.02   ANIMAL NEGLECT.
   1.   It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of an animal and
confines that animal to fail to provide the animal with any of the following
conditions for the animal’s welfare:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.3)
      A.   Access to food in an amount and quality reasonably sufficient to
satisfy the animal’s basic nutrition level to the extent that the animal’s
health or life is endangered.
      B.   Access to a supply of potable water in an amount reasonably
sufficient to satisfy the animal’s basic hydration level to the extent that the
animal’s health or life is endangered. Access to snow or ice does not satisfy
this requirement.
      C.   Sanitary conditions free from excessive animal waste or the
overcrowding of animals to the extent that the animal’s health or life is
endangered.
      D.   Ventilated shelter reasonably sufficient to provide adequate
protection from the elements and weather conditions suitable for the age,
species, and physical condition of the animal so as to maintain the animal in a
state of good health to the extent that the animal’s health or life is
endangered. The shelter must protect the animal from wind, rain, snow, or sun
and have adequate bedding to provide reasonable protection against cold and
dampness. A shelter may include a residence, garage, barn, shed, or doghouse.
      E.   Grooming, to the extent it is reasonably necessary to prevent
adverse health effects or suffering.
      F.   Veterinary care deemed necessary by a reasonably prudent person to
relieve an animal’s distress from any of the following:
         (1)   A condition caused by failing to provide for the animal’s
welfare as described in this section.
         (2)   An injury or illness suffered by the animal causing the animal
to suffer prolonged pain and suffering.
   2.   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      A.   A person operating a commercial establishment under a valid
authorization issued or renewed under Section 162.2A of the Code of Iowa, or a
person acting under the direction or supervision of that person, if all of the
following apply:
         (1)   The animal, as described in Subsection 1, was maintained as part
of the commercial establishment’s operation.
         (2)   In providing conditions for the welfare of the animal, as
described in Subsection 1, the person complied with the standard of care
requirements provided in Section 162.10A[1] of the Code of Iowa, including any
applicable rules adopted by the Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship
applying to: (i) a State licensee or registrant operating pursuant to Section
162.10A[2a] or [2b] of the Code of Iowa; or (ii) a permittee operating pursuant
to Section 162.10A[2c] of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   A research facility if the research facility has been issued or
renewed a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and Land
Stewardship pursuant to Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa, and performs functions
within the scope of accepted practices and disciplines associated with the
research facility.
55.03   LIVESTOCK NEGLECT.
It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines livestock in any place to
fail to provide the livestock with care consistent with customary animal
husbandry practices, or to deprive the livestock of necessary sustenance, or to
injure or destroy livestock by any means that causes pain or suffering in a
manner inconsistent with customary animal husbandry practices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.2)
55.04   ABANDONMENT OF CATS AND DOGS.
It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of a cat or dog to
relinquish all rights in and duties to care for the cat or dog. This section
does not apply to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.8)
   1.   The delivery of a cat or dog to another person who will accept
ownership and custody of the cat or dog.
   2.   The delivery of a cat or dog to an animal shelter or pound or that has
been issued or renewed a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture
and Land Stewardship under Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa.
   3.   A person who relinquishes custody of a cat at a location in which the
person does not hold a legal or equitable interest, if previously the person
had taken custody of the cat at the same location and provided for the cat’s
sterilization by a veterinarian.
55.05   LIVESTOCK.
It is unlawful for a person to keep livestock within the City except by written
consent of the Council or except in compliance with the City’s zoning
regulations.
55.06   AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any owner to allow an animal to run at large within the
corporate limits of the City.
55.07   DAMAGE OR INTERFERENCE.
It is unlawful for the owner of an animal to allow or permit such animal to
pass upon the premises of another thereby causing damage to, or interference
with, the premises.
55.08   ANNOYANCE OR DISTURBANCE.
It is unlawful for the owner of a dog to allow or permit such dog to cause
serious annoyance or disturbance to any person by frequent and habitual
howling, yelping, barking, or otherwise, or by running after or chasing
persons, bicycles, automobiles, or other vehicles.
55.09   SANITATION.
It is the duty of every person owning or having custody or control of an animal
to clean up, remove, and dispose of the feces deposited by such animal upon
public property, park property, public right-of-way, or the property of another
person.
55.10   VICIOUS DOGS.
It is unlawful for any person to harbor or keep a vicious dog within the City.
A dog is deemed to be vicious when it has attacked or bitten any person without
provocation, or when propensity to attack or bite persons exists and is known
or ought reasonably to be known to the owner.
55.11   RABIES VACCINATION.
Every owner of a dog shall obtain a rabies vaccination for such animal. It is
unlawful for any person to own or have a dog in said person’s possession, six
months of age or over, which has not been vaccinated against rabies. Dogs kept
in State or federally licensed kennels and not allowed to run at large are not
subject to these vaccination requirements.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.33)
55.12   OWNER’S DUTY.
It is the duty of the owner of any dog, cat, or other animal that has bitten or
attacked a person or any person having knowledge of such bite or attack to
report this act to a local health or law enforcement official. It is the duty
of physicians and veterinarians to report to the local board of health the
existence of any animal known or suspected to be suffering from rabies.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.38)
55.13   CONFINEMENT.
If a local board of health receives information that an animal has bitten a
person or that a dog or animal is suspected of having rabies, the board shall
order the owner to confine such animal in the manner it directs. If the owner
fails to confine such animal in the manner directed, the animal shall be
apprehended and impounded by such board, and after 10 days the board may
humanely destroy the animal. If such animal is returned to its owner, the owner
shall pay the cost of impoundment. This section does not apply if a police
service dog or a horse used by a law enforcement agency and acting in the
performance of its duties has bitten a person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.39)
55.14   AT LARGE: IMPOUNDMENT.
Animals found at large in violation of this chapter shall be seized and
impounded, or at the discretion of the peace officer, the owner may be served a
summons to appear before a proper court to answer charges made thereunder.
55.15   DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
When an animal has been apprehended and impounded, written notice shall be
provided to the owner within two days after impoundment, if the owner’s name
and current address can reasonably be determined by accessing a tag or other
device that is on or part of the animal. Impounded animals may be recovered by
the owner upon payment of impounding costs, and if an unvaccinated dog, by
having it immediately vaccinated. If the owner fails to redeem the animal
within seven days from the date that the notice is mailed, or if the owner
cannot be located within seven days, the animal shall be disposed of in
accordance with law or destroyed by euthanasia.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.37 and 351.41)
55.16   IMPOUNDING COSTS.
Impounding costs are $50.00 per day.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.37)
55.17   PET AWARDS PROHIBITED.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 717E)
   1.   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to award a pet or advertise
that a pet may be awarded as any of the following:
      A.   A prize for participating in a game.
      B.   A prize for participating in a fair.
      C.   An inducement or condition for visiting a place of business or
attending an event sponsored by a business.
      D.   An inducement or condition for executing a contract that includes
provisions unrelated to the ownership, care, or disposition of the pet.
   2.   Exceptions. This section does not apply to any of the following:
      A.   A pet shop licensed pursuant to Section 162.5 of the Code of Iowa if
the award of a pet is provided in connection with the sale of a pet on the
premises of the pet shop.
      B.   Youth programs associated with 4-H Clubs; Future Farmers of America;
the Izaak Walton League of America; or organizations associated with outdoor
recreation, hunting, or fishing, including but not limited to the Iowa
Sportsmen’s Federation.
55.18   TAMPERING WITH A RABIES VACCINATION TAG.
It is unlawful to tamper with a rabies vaccination tag.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.45)
   1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with a rabies vaccination tag
if all of the following apply:
      A.   The person knowingly removes, damages, or destroys a rabies
vaccination tag as described in Section 351.35 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   The rabies vaccination tag is attached to a collar worn by a dog,
including as provided in Sections 351.25 and 351.26 of the Code of Iowa.
   2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
      A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized
to take action by the owner.
      B.   A peace officer.
      C.   A veterinarian.
      D.   An animal shelter or pound.
55.19   TAMPERING WITH AN ELECTRONIC HANDLING DEVICE.
It is unlawful to tamper with an electronic handling device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.46)
   1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with an electronic handling
device if all of the following apply:
      A.   The person knowingly removes, disables, or destroys an electronic
device designed and used to maintain custody or control of the dog or modify
the dog’s behavior.
      B.   The electronic device is attached to or worn by the dog or attached
to an item worn by the dog, including (but not limited to) a collar, harness,
or vest.
   2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
      A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized
to take action by the owner.
      B.   A peace officer.
      C.   A veterinarian.
      D.   An animal shelter or pound.
55.20   TETHERING DOGS.
The following regulations shall apply to the tethering of dogs within the City.
   1.   Tethering Regulations.
      A.   No dog shall be hitched, tied, or fastened by any tying device, to
include a pulley system, for a period of more than four consecutive hours or
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      B.   When tethered, all dogs must wear a properly fitted collar or
harness made of leather or nylon and be specifically designed to be used on a
dog that is being tethered. Collars of the choker type or that effectively
choke the dog are not permitted.
      C.   The tying device, to include pulley systems, shall be attached to
the dog’s collar or harness and shall be of at least 10 feet in length with a
swivel device on the anchor and collar ends to prevent tangling.
      D.   The tying device, to include pulley system, must provide at least
150 square feet of unobstructed space.
      E.   Unattended dogs may not be tethered outside by use of a restraint
that is composed primarily of a chain, has weights attached, or is not attached
to a properly fitted collar or harness.
      F.   Dogs may not be tethered with a tying device that weighs more than
one-tenth of the dog’s body weight.
      G.   Dogs may not be tethered using a collar exceeding one and one-half
inches wide for any dog weighing less than 60 pounds. Dogs weighing 60 pounds
or more shall not be tethered using a collar exceeding two inches in width.
Collars shall be adjusted to provide at least the circumference of the animal’s
neck plus one inch.
      H.   Puppies, sick, or injured animals, or a female dog, while the dog is
in estrus, shall not be tethered.
   2.   Any dog that is tethered must have access to adequate shelter, clean
water, dry ground, and shade from direct sunlight at all times.
   3.   It shall be unlawful to leave a dog outside and unattended by use of a
restrain that unreasonably limits the dog’s movement in the case of extreme
weather conditions, including conditions in which the actual or effective
outdoor temperature is below 32 degrees Fahrenheit; a heat advisory has been
issued by a local or State authority or jurisdiction; or tornado warning has
been issued for the jurisdiction by the National Weather Service.
55.21   DOG KENNEL REGULATIONS.
Dogs kept in a fenced in area or kennel must have adequate space to move around
in and access to food, water, and shelter appropriate for the breed. Kennels or
fence enclosure must provide a length on each side at least three times the
length of the dog when measured from nose to tail base. Kennels may not be
located in full sun with no access to a shaded or cool area. Shade or a cooled
area does not include a doghouse.
55.22   URBAN CHICKENS.
   1.   Urban chickens raised from production of eggs or meat shall be
authorized on tracts of land containing one single-family dwelling occupied and
used as such. Only female chickens (hens) are allowed, with the maximum number
of chickens allowed at six.
   2.   Chickens must be kept in an enclosure or fenced area at all times, and
secured within a henhouse or chicken tractor during non-daylight hours. The pen
or coop shall be located at least five feet from the property line and at least
25 feet from any adjacent residential dwelling. New structures require
obtaining a building permit through the City.
   3.   All stored manure shall be covered by a fully enclosed structure with a
roof or lid over the entire structure. No more than three cubic feet of manure
shall be stored on the tract of land. All other manure not used for composting
or fertilizing shall be removed. The henhouse, chicken tractor, chicken pen,
and surrounding area must be kept free from trash and accumulated droppings.
Uneaten feed shall be removed in a timely manner.
   4.   Odors from chickens, chicken manure, or other chicken-related
substances shall not be perceptible beyond the boundaries of the permitted
tract of land. In addition, noise from chickens shall not be loud enough beyond
the boundaries of the permitted tract of land at the property boundaries to
disturb persons of reasonable sensitivity.
   5.   Chickens shall be provided with access to feed and clean water at all
times. All grains and food shall be stored in rodent proof containers.
Necessary action shall be taken to reduce the attraction of predators and
rodents and the potential infestation of insects and parasites.
CHAPTER 57
DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS ANIMALS
 
57.01 Definitions                  57.03 Keeping of Vicious Animals Prohibited
57.02 Keeping of Dangerous Animals 57.04 Seizure, Impoundment, and Disposition
Prohibited
 
57.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Dangerous animal” means: 
      A.   Any animal which is not naturally tame or gentle, and which is of a
wild nature or disposition, and which is capable of killing, inflicting serious
injury upon, or causing disease among human beings or domestic animals and
having known tendencies as a species to do so;
      B.   Any animal declared to be dangerous by the County Board of Health or
Council. † 6
   2.   “Vicious animal” means any animal, except for a dangerous animal per
se, as listed above, that has attacked, bitten, or clawed a person while
running at large and the attack was unprovoked, or any animal that has
exhibited vicious tendencies in present or past conduct, including such that
said animal:
      A.   Has bitten more than one person during the animal’s lifetime; or
      B.   Has bitten one person on two or more occasions during the animal’s
lifetime; or
      C.   Has attacked any domestic animal or fowl without provocation,
causing injury or death while off the property of the owner.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Certain other dangerous animals, listed in Chapter 717F.1,
6 Paragraph 5a, of the Code of Iowa, are specifically prohibited and regulated by
  the Iowa Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship.
57.02   KEEPING OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
No person shall keep, shelter, or harbor any dangerous animal as a pet, or act
as a temporary custodian for such animal, or keep, shelter, or harbor such
animal for any other purpose or in any other capacity within the City except in
the following circumstances:
   1.   The keeping of dangerous animals for exhibition to the public by a bona
fide traveling circus, carnival, exhibit, or show.
   2.   The keeping of dangerous animals in a bona fide, licensed veterinary
hospital for treatment.
   3.   Any dangerous animals under the jurisdiction of and in the possession
of the Iowa Department of Natural Resources, pursuant to Chapters 481A and 481B
of the Code of Iowa.
57.03   KEEPING OF VICIOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
No person shall keep, shelter, or harbor for any reason within the City a
vicious animal except in the following circumstances:
   1.   Animals under the control of a law enforcement or military agency.
   2.   The keeping of guard dogs; however, guard dogs must be kept within a
structure or fixed enclosure at all times, and any guard dog found at large may
be processed as a vicious animal pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
Any premises guarded by a guard dog shall be prominently posted with a sign
containing the wording “Guard Dog,” “Vicious Dog,” or words of similar import,
and the owner of such premises shall inform the Mayor or peace officer that a
guard dog is on duty at said premises.
57.04   SEIZURE, IMPOUNDMENT, AND DISPOSITION.
   1.   In the event that a dangerous animal or vicious animal is found at
large and unattended upon public property, park property, public right-of-way,
or the property of someone other than its owner, thereby creating a hazard to
persons or property, such animal may, in the discretion of the Mayor or peace
officer, be destroyed if it cannot be confined or captured. The City shall be
under no duty to attempt the confinement or capture of a dangerous animal or
vicious animal found at large, nor shall it have a duty to notify the owner of
such animal prior to its destruction.
   2.   Upon the complaint of any individual that a person is keeping,
sheltering, or harboring a dangerous animal or vicious animal on premises in
the City, the Mayor or peace officer shall cause the matter to be investigated
and if after investigation, the facts indicate that the person named in the
complaint is keeping, sheltering, or harboring a dangerous or vicious animal in
the City, the Mayor or peace officer shall order the person named in the
complaint to safely remove such animal from the City, permanently place the
animal with an organization or group allowed to possess dangerous or vicious
animals, or destroy the animal within three days of the receipt of such an
order. Such order shall be contained in a notice to remove the dangerous or
vicious animal, which notice shall be given in writing to the person keeping,
sheltering, or harboring the dangerous animal or vicious animal, and shall be
served personally or by certified mail. Such order and notice to remove the
dangerous animal or vicious animal shall not be required where such animal has
previously caused serious physical harm or death to any person, in which case
the Mayor or peace officer shall cause the animal to be immediately seized and
impounded or killed if seizure and impoundment are not possible without risk of
serious physical harm or death to any person.
   3.   The order to remove a dangerous animal or vicious animal issued by the
Mayor or peace officer may be appealed to the Council. In order to appeal such
order, written notice of appeal must be filed with the Clerk within three days
after receipt of the order contained in the notice to remove the dangerous or
vicious animal. Failure to file such written notice of appeal shall constitute
a waiver of the right to appeal the order of the Mayor or peace officer.
   4.   The notice of appeal shall state the grounds for such appeal and shall
be delivered personally or by certified mail to the Clerk. The hearing of such
appeal shall be scheduled within seven days of the receipt of the notice of
appeal. The hearing may be continued for good cause. After such hearing, the
Council may affirm or reverse the order of the Mayor or peace officer. Such
determination shall be contained in a written decision and shall be filed with
the Clerk within three days after the hearing or any continued session thereof.
   5.   If the Council affirms the action of the Mayor or peace officer, the
Council shall order in its written decision that the person owning, sheltering,
harboring, or keeping such dangerous or vicious animal remove such animal from
the City, permanently place such animal with an organization or group allowed
to possess dangerous or vicious animals or destroy it. The decision and order
shall immediately be served upon the person against whom rendered in the same
manner as the notice of removal. If the original order of the Mayor or peace
officer is not appealed and is not complied with within three days or the order
of the Council after appeal is not complied with within three days of its
issuance, the Mayor or peace officer is authorized to seize, impound, or
destroy such dangerous or vicious animal. Failure to comply with an order of
the Mayor or peace officer issued pursuant to this chapter and not appealed, or
of the Council after appeal, constitutes a simple misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 60
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE
 
60.01 Title                          60.05 Reports of Traffic Accidents
60.02 Definitions                    60.06 Peace Officer’s Authority
60.03 Administration and Enforcement 60.07 Obedience to Peace Officers
60.04 Power to Direct Traffic        60.08 Parades Regulated
 
60.01   TITLE.
Chapters 60 through
70 of this Code of Ordinances may be known and cited as the “Rockwell City
Traffic Code” (and are referred to herein as the “Traffic Code”).
60.02   DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in the Traffic Code are defined by State law, such
definitions apply to their use in said Traffic Code and are adopted by
reference. Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, have the following
meanings:
   1.   “Business District” means the territory contiguous to and including the
following designated streets:
      A.   Court Street from Third Street to Sixth Street.
      B.   Fifth Street from Lake Street to Richmond Street.
      C.   Fourth Street from High Street to Richmond Street.
      D.   Main Street from Third Street to Sixth Street.
   2.   “MPH” means miles per hour.
   3.   “Parade” means any march or procession of persons or vehicles organized
for marching or moving on the streets in an organized fashion or manner or any
march or procession of persons or vehicles represented or advertised to the
public as a parade.
   4.   “Park” or “parking” means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   5.   “Peace officer” means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   6.   “Pedestrian” means a person afoot or a person using a pedestrian
conveyance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(51))
   7.   “Pedestrian conveyance” means any human-powered device by which a
pedestrian may move other than by walking or by which a pedestrian may move
another person, including but not limited to a wheelchair, stroller,
skateboard, scooter, or other similar device. Pedestrian conveyance also
includes an electric personal assistive mobility device and any other device
used to move a person sitting or standing on the device regardless of whether
the device is powered by an electric motor, so long as the electric motor
produces less than 750 watts. Pedestrian conveyance does not include a bicycle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(51A))
   8.   “Residence district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway not comprising a business, suburban, or school district, where 40
percent or more of the frontage on such a highway for a distance of 300 feet or
more is occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings in use for
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(63))
   9.   “School district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway for a distance of 200 feet in either direction from a schoolhouse.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(70))
   10.   “Stand” or “standing” means the halting of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
   11.   “Stop” means when required, the complete cessation of movement.
   12.   “Stop” or “stopping” means when prohibited, any halting of a vehicle,
even momentarily, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control sign or signal.
   13.   “Suburban district” means all other parts of the City not included in
the business, school, or residence districts.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(78))
   14.   “Traffic control device” means all signs, signals, markings, and
devices not inconsistent with this chapter, lawfully placed or erected for the
purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
   15.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway. Vehicle does not
include:
      A.   Any device moved by human power, including a low-speed electric
bicycle.
      B.   Any device used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
      C.   Any personal delivery device operated pursuant to Chapter 321O of
the Code of Iowa.
      D.   Any integral part of a truck tractor or road tractor which is
mounted on the frame of the truck tractor or road tractor immediately behind
the cab and which may be used to transport persons and property, but which
cannot be drawn upon the highway by the truck tractor or another motor vehicle.
      E.   Any steering axle, dolly, auxiliary axle, or other integral part of
another vehicle which in and of itself is incapable of commercially
transporting any person or property but is used primarily to support another
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Section 321.1(90))
60.03   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
Provisions of this Traffic Code and State law relating to motor vehicles and
law of the road are enforced by the Police Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
60.04   POWER TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
A peace officer or, in the absence of a peace officer, any officer of the Fire
Department when at the scene of a fire, is authorized to direct all traffic by
voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws. In the event of an
emergency, traffic may be directed as conditions require, notwithstanding the
provisions of the traffic laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.4 and 321.236[2])
60.05   REPORTS OF TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS.
The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident within the limits of the City
shall file a report as and when required by the Iowa Department of
Transportation. A copy of this report shall be filed with the City for the
confidential use of peace officers and shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 321.271 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.273)
60.06   PEACE OFFICER’S AUTHORITY.
A peace officer is authorized to stop a vehicle to require exhibition of the
driver’s license of the driver, to serve a summons or memorandum of traffic
violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to inspect the vehicle with
reference to size, weight, cargo, log book, bills of lading, or other manifest
of employment, tires and safety equipment, or to inspect the registration
certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or permit of such
vehicle. A peace officer having probable cause to stop a vehicle may require
exhibition of the proof of financial liability coverage card issued for the
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.492)
60.07   OBEDIENCE TO PEACE OFFICERS.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control, or regulate traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.229)
60.08   PARADES REGULATED.
No person shall conduct or cause any parade on any street except as provided
herein:
   1.   Permit Required. No parade shall be conducted without first obtaining a
written permit from the Mayor or Police Chief. Such permit shall state the time
and date for the parade to be held and the streets or general route therefor.
Such written permit granted to the person organizing or sponsoring the parade
shall be permission for all participants therein to parade when such
participants have been invited by the permittee to participate therein. No fee
shall be required for such permit.
   2.   Parade Not A Street Obstruction. Any parade for which a permit has been
issued as herein required, and the persons lawfully participating therein,
shall not be deemed an obstruction of the streets notwithstanding the
provisions of any other ordinance to the contrary.
   3.   Control by Police and Firefighters. Persons participating in any parade
shall at all times be subject to the lawful orders and directions in the
performance of their duties of law enforcement personnel and members of the
Fire Department.
CHAPTER 61
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
 
61.01 Installation  61.04 Standards
61.02 Crosswalks    61.05 Compliance
61.03 Traffic Lanes  
 
61.01   INSTALLATION.
The Police Chief shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic control
devices when and as required under this Traffic Code or under State law or
emergency or temporary traffic control devices for the duration of an emergency
or temporary condition as traffic conditions may require to regulate, guide or
warn traffic. The Police Chief shall keep a record of all such traffic control
devices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.02   CROSSWALKS.
The Police Chief is hereby authorized, subject to approval of the Council by
resolution, to designate and maintain crosswalks by appropriate traffic control
devices at intersections where, due to traffic conditions, there is particular
danger to pedestrians crossing the street or roadway, and at such other places
as traffic conditions require.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] and 321.255)
61.03   TRAFFIC LANES.
The Police Chief is hereby authorized to mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as traffic conditions require, consistent with this
Traffic Code. Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] and 321.255)
61.04   STANDARDS.
Traffic control devices shall comply with standards established by The Manual
of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.05   COMPLIANCE.
No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official traffic
control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, unless
at the time otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject to the exceptions
granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under Section 321.231 and
321.231A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
CHAPTER 62
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
 
62.01 Violation of Regulations 62.05 Quiet Zones
62.02 Play Streets Designated  62.06 Obstructing View at Intersections
62.03 Vehicles on Sidewalks    62.07 Engine and Compression Brakes
62.04 Clinging to Vehicle       
 
62.01   VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
Any person who willfully fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order of a
peace officer or direction of a Fire Department officer during a fire, or who
fails to abide by the applicable provisions of the following Iowa statutory
laws relating to motor vehicles and the statutory law of the road is in
violation of this section. These sections of the Code of Iowa are adopted by
reference and are as follows:
   1.   Section 321.17 – Misdemeanor to violate registration provisions.
   2.   Section 321.32 – Registration card, carried and exhibited; exception.
   3.   Section 321.37 – Display of plates.
   4.   Section 321.38 – Plates, method of attaching, imitations prohibited.
   5.   Section 321.57 – Operation under special plates.
   6.   Section 321.67 – Certificate of title must be executed.
   7.   Section 321.78 – Injuring or tampering with vehicle.
   8.   Section 321.79 – Intent to injure.
   9.   Section 321.91 – Limitation on liability; penalty for abandonment.
   10.   Section 321.98 – Operation without registration.
   11.   Section 321.99 – Fraudulent use of registration.
   12.   Section 321.104 – Penal offenses against title law.
   13.   Section 321.115 – Antique vehicles; model year plates permitted.
   14.   Section 321.174 – Operators licensed; operation of commercial
vehicles.
   15.   Section 321.174A – Operation of motor vehicle with expired license.
   16.   Section 321.180 – Instruction permits, commercial learner’s permits,
and chauffeur’s instruction permits.
   17.   Section 321.180B – Graduated driver’s licenses for persons aged
fourteen through seventeen.
   18.   Section 321.193 – Restrictions on licenses; penalty.
   19.   Section 321.194 – Special minors’ licenses.
   20.   Section 321.208A – Operation in violation of out-of-service order;
penalties.
   21.   Section 321.216 – Unlawful use of license and nonoperator’s
identification card; penalty.
   22.   Section 321.216B – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain alcohol.
   23.   Section 321.216C – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain tobacco, tobacco products
alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes.
   24.   Section 321.218 – Operating without valid driver’s license or when
disqualified; penalties.
   25.   Section 321.219 – Permitting unauthorized minor to drive.
   26.   Section 321.220 – Permitting unauthorized person to drive.
   27.   Section 321.221 – Employing unlicensed chauffeur.
   28.   Section 321.222 – Renting motor vehicle to another.
   29.   Section 321.223 – Driver’s license inspection for motor vehicle
rental.
   30.   Section 321.224 – Record kept.
   31.   Section 321.232 – Speed detection jamming devices; penalty.
   32.   Section 321.234A – All-terrain vehicles, highway use.
   33.   Section 321.235A – Electric personal assistive mobility devices.
   34.   Section 321.235B – Low-speed electric bicycles.
   35.   Section 321.247 – Golf cart operation on City streets.
   36.   Section 321.257 – Official traffic control signal.
   37.   Section 321.259 – Unauthorized signs, signals or markings.
   38.   Section 321.260 – Interference with devices, signs, or signals;
unlawful possession; traffic signal preemption devices.
   39.   Section 321.262 – Leaving scene of traffic accident prohibited;
vehicle damage only; removal of vehicles.
   40.   Section 321.263 – Information and aid; leaving scene of personal
injury accident.
   41.   Section 321.264 – Striking unattended vehicle.
   42.   Section 321.265 – Striking fixtures upon a highway.
   43.   Section 321.266 – Reporting accidents.
   44.   Section 321.275 – Operation of motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
   45.   Section 321.276 – Use of electronic communication device while
driving; text-messaging.
   46.   Section 321.277 – Reckless driving.
   47.   Section 321.277A – Careless driving.
   48.   Section 321.278 – Drag racing prohibited.
   49.   Section 321.281 – Actions against bicyclists.
   50.   Section 321.284 – Open container in motor vehicles, drivers.
   51.   Section 321.284A – Open container in motor vehicles, passengers.
   52.   Section 321.288 – Control of vehicle; reduced speed.
   53.   Section 321.295 – Limitation on bridge or elevated structures.
   54.   Section 321.297 – Driving on right-hand side of roadways; exceptions.
   55.   Section 321.298 – Meeting and turning to right.
   56.   Section 321.299 – Overtaking a vehicle.
   57.   Section 321.302 – Overtaking and passing.
   58.   Section 321.303 – Limitations on overtaking on the left.
   59.   Section 321.304 – Prohibited passing.
   60.   Section 321.305 – One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands.
   61.   Section 321.306 – Roadways laned for traffic.
   62.   Section 321.307 – Following too closely.
   63.   Section 321.309 – Towing.
   64.   Section 321.310 – Towing four-wheel trailers.
   65.   Section 321.312 – Turning on curve or crest of grade.
   66.   Section 321.313 – Starting parked vehicle.
   67.   Section 321.314 – When signal required.
   68.   Section 321.315 – Signal continuous.
   69.   Section 321.316 – Stopping.
   70.   Section 321.317 – Signals by hand and arm or signal device.
   71.   Section 321.318 – Method of giving hand and arm signals.
   72.   Section 321.319 – Entering intersections from different highways.
   73.   Section 321.320 – Left turns; yielding.
   74.   Section 321.321 – Entering through highways.
   75.   Section 321.322 – Vehicles entering stop or yield intersection.
   76.   Section 321.323 – Moving vehicle backward on highway.
   77.   Section 321.323A – Approaching certain stationary vehicles.
   78.   Section 321.324 – Operation on approach of emergency vehicles.
   79.   Section 321.324A – Funeral processions.
   80.   Section 321.329 – Duty of driver; pedestrians crossing or working on
highways.
   81.   Section 321.330 – Use of crosswalks.
   82.   Section 321.332 – White canes restricted to blind persons.
   83.   Section 321.333 – Duty of drivers.
   84.   Section 321.340 – Driving through safety zone.
   85.   Section 321.341 – Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad
train or railroad track equipment.
   86.   Section 321.342 – Stop at certain railroad crossings; posting warning.
   87.   Section 321.343 – Certain vehicles must stop.
   88.   Section 321.344 – Heavy equipment at crossing.
   89.   Section 321.344B – Immediate safety threat; penalty.
   90.   Section 321.354 – Stopping on traveled way.
   91.   Section 321.359 – Moving other vehicle.
   92.   Section 321.362 – Unattended motor vehicle.
   93.   Section 321.363 – Obstruction to driver’s view.
   94.   Section 321.364 – Preventing contamination of food by hazardous
material.
   95.   Section 321.365 – Coasting prohibited.
   96.   Section 321.366 – Acts prohibited on fully-controlled access
facilities.
   97.   Section 321.367 – Following fire apparatus.
   98.   Section 321.368 – Crossing fire hose.
   99.   Section 321.369 – Putting debris on highway.
   100.   Section 321.370 – Removing injurious material.
   101.   Section 321.371 – Clearing up wrecks.
   102.   Section 321.372 – Discharging pupils, stopping requirements;
penalties.
   103.   Section 321.381 – Movement of unsafe or improperly equipped vehicles.
   104.   Section 321.381A – Operation of low-speed vehicles.
   105.   Section 321.382 – Upgrade pulls; minimum speed.
   106.   Section 321.383 – Exceptions; slow vehicles identified.
   107.   Section 321.384 – When lighted lamps required.
   108.   Section 321.385 – Head lamps on motor vehicles.
   109.   Section 321.386 – Head lamps on motorcycles, motorized bicycles, and
all-terrain vehicles.
   110.   Section 321.387 – Rear lamps.
   111.   Section 321.388 – Illuminating plates.
   112.   Section 321.389 – Reflector requirement.
   113.   Section 321.390 – Reflector requirements.
   114.   Section 321.392 – Clearance and identification lights.
   115.   Section 321.393 – Color and mounting.
   116.   Section 321.394 – Lamp or flag on projecting load.
   117.   Section 321.395 – Lamps on parked vehicles.
   118.   Section 321.398 – Lamps on other vehicles and equipment.
   119.   Section 321.402 – Spot lamps.
   120.   Section 321.403 – Auxiliary driving lamps.
   121.   Section 321.404 – Signal lamps and signal devices.
   122.   Section 321.404A – Light-restricting devices prohibited.
   123.   Section 321.405 – Self-illumination.
   124.   Section 321.408 – Back-up lamps.
   125.   Section 321.409 – Mandatory lighting equipment.
   126.   Section 321.415 – Required usage of lighting devices.
   127.   Section 321.417 – Single-beam road-lighting equipment.
   128.   Section 321.418 – Alternate road-lighting equipment.
   129.   Section 321.419 – Number of driving lamps required or permitted.
   130.   Section 321.420 – Number of lamps lighted.
   131.   Section 321.421 – Special restrictions on lamps.
   132.   Section 321.422 – Red light in front, rear lights.
   133.   Section 321.423 – Flashing lights.
   134.   Section 321.430 – Brake, hitch, and control requirements.
   135.   Section 321.431 – Performance ability.
   136.   Section 321.432 – Horns and warning devices.
   137.   Section 321.433 – Sirens, whistles, air horns, and bells prohibited.
   138.   Section 321.434 – Bicycle sirens or whistles.
   139.   Section 321.436 – Mufflers, prevention of noise.
   140.   Section 321.437 – Mirrors.
   141.   Section 321.438 – Windshields and windows.
   142.   Section 321.439 – Windshield wipers.
   143.   Section 321.440 – Restrictions as to tire equipment.
   144.   Section 321.441 – Metal tires prohibited.
   145.   Section 321.442 – Projections on wheels.
   146.   Section 321.444 – Safety glass.
   147.   Section 321.445 – Safety belts and safety harnesses; use required.
   148.   Section 321.446 – Child restraint devices.
   149.   Section 321.449 – Motor carrier safety rules.
   150.   Section 321.449A – Rail crew transport drivers.
   151.   Section 321.449B – Texting or using a mobile telephone while
operating a commercial motor vehicle.
   152.   Section 321.450 – Hazardous materials transportation regulations.
   153.   Section 321.454 – Width of vehicles.
   154.   Section 321.455 – Projecting loads on passenger vehicles.
   155.   Section 321.456 – Height of vehicles.
   156.   Section 321.457 – Maximum length.
   157.   Section 321.458 – Loading beyond front.
   158.   Section 321.460 – Spilling loads on highways.
   159.   Section 321.461 – Trailers and towed vehicles.
   160.   Section 321.462 – Drawbars and safety chains.
   161.   Section 321.463 – Maximum gross weight; exceptions, penalties.
   162.   Section 321.465 – Weighing vehicles and removal of excess.
   163.   Section 321.466 – Increased loading capacity; reregistration.
62.02   PLAY STREETS DESIGNATED.
The Council shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a play
street and cause to be placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway
indicating and helping to protect the same. Whenever authorized signs are
erected indicating any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall
drive a vehicle upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of
vehicles having business or whose residences are within such closed area, and
then any said driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such
street or portion thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
62.03   VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk area except
at a driveway.
62.04   CLINGING TO VEHICLE.
No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of the City unless all
passengers of said vehicle are inside the vehicle in the place intended for
their accommodation. No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
in-line skates, sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or themselves to any
vehicle upon a roadway.
62.05   QUIET ZONES.
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
62.06   OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS.
It is unlawful to allow any tree, hedge, billboard, or other object to obstruct
the view of an intersection by preventing persons from having a clear view of
traffic approaching the intersection from cross streets. Any such obstruction
is deemed a nuisance and in addition to the standard penalty may be abated in
the manner provided by Chapter 50.
62.07   ENGINE AND COMPRESSION BRAKES.
It is unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate within the City
any engine brake, compression brake, or mechanical exhaust device designed to
aid in the braking or deceleration of any vehicle which results in excessive,
loud, unusual, or explosive noise from such vehicle, except in the case of an
emergency.
CHAPTER 63
SPEED REGULATIONS
 
63.01 General                             63.04 Special Speed Zones
63.02 State Code Speed Limits             63.05 Minimum Speed
63.03 Parks, Cemeteries, and Parking Lots  
 
63.01   GENERAL.
Every driver of a motor vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a careful
and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and proper,
having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and of any
other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle on any
street at a speed greater than will permit said driver to bring it to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right to
assume, however, that all persons using said street will observe the law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.285)
63.02   STATE CODE SPEED LIMITS.
The following speed limits are established in Section 321.285 of the Code of
Iowa and any speed in excess thereof is unlawful unless specifically designated
otherwise in this chapter as a special speed zone.
1.   Business District – 20 MPH.
2.   Residence or School District – 25 MPH.
3.   Suburban District – 45 MPH.
63.03   PARKS, CEMETERIES, AND PARKING LOTS.
A speed in excess of 15 MPH in any public park, cemetery, or parking lot,
unless specifically designated otherwise in this chapter, is unlawful.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[5])
63.04   SPECIAL SPEED ZONES.
In accordance with requirements of the Iowa Department of Transportation, or
whenever the Council shall determine upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that any speed limit listed in Section
63.02 is greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found
to exist at any intersection or other place or upon any part of the City street
system, the Council shall determine and adopt by ordinance such higher or lower
speed limit as it deems reasonable and safe at such location. The following
special speed zones have been established:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.290)
   1.   Special 25 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 25 MPH is unlawful on
any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   Eighth Street, from 300 feet south of the south railroad track to
Tonawanda Street.
   2.   Special 35 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 35 MPH is unlawful on
any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   Eighth Street, from 500 feet south of Park Lane to 75 feet north of
Park Lane.
      B.   High Street, from 800 feet east of Sixth Street to 250 feet west of
Ninth Street.
      C.   High Street, from Elm Street to 610 feet east of Brower Street.
      D.   Tonawanda Street, from Ninth Street to the west corporate line.
   3.   Special 45 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 45 MPH is unlawful on
any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   First Street, from 200 feet south of Washington Street to the south
corporate line.
      B.   First Street, from 725 feet north of Austin Street to the north
corporate line.
      C.   High Street, from 250 feet west of Ninth Street to the west
corporate line.
      D.   High Street, from 610 feet east of Brower Street to the east
corporate line.
63.05   MINIMUM SPEED.
A person shall not drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation, or in compliance with law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.294)
CHAPTER 64
TURNING REGULATIONS
 
64.01 Turning at Intersections 64.02 U-Turns
 
64.01   TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.311)
   1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   2.   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right
half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to depart from the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
   3.   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street
shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection. A left turn from a one-way street into a two-way
street shall be made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street
being entered upon leaving the intersection.
   The Police Chief may cause markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or
adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct, as traffic conditions
require, that a different course from that specified above be traveled by
vehicles turning at intersections, and when markers, buttons, or signs are so
placed, no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other
than as directed and required by such markers, buttons, or signs.
64.02   U-TURNS.
It is unlawful for a driver to make a U-turn except at an intersection,
however, U-turns are prohibited at intersections where there are automatic
traffic signals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[9])
CHAPTER 65
STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED
 
65.01 Stop Required                65.05 Stop Before Crossing Sidewalk
65.02 Three-Way Stop Intersections 65.06 Stop When Traffic Is Obstructed
65.03 Four-Way Stop Intersections  65.07 Pedestrians’ Right-of-Way
65.04 Yield Required                
 
65.01   STOP REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Austin Street. Vehicles traveling on Austin Street shall stop at First
Street.
   2.   Brower Street. Vehicles traveling north on Brower Street shall stop at
High Street.
   3.   Butler Street. Vehicles traveling east on Butler Street shall stop at
First Street.
   4.   Court Street. Vehicles traveling on Court Street shall stop at Fourth
Street.
   5.   Eighth Street. Vehicles traveling on Eighth Street shall stop at High
Street.
   6.   Eighth Street. Vehicles traveling on Eighth Street shall stop at Main
Street.
   7.   Eighth Street. Vehicles traveling on Eighth Street shall stop at
Tonawanda Street.
   8.   Elm Street. Vehicles traveling north on Elm Street shall stop at Lake
Street.
   9.   Elm Street. Vehicles traveling north on Elm Street shall stop at Main
Street.
   10.   Elm Street. Vehicles traveling on Elm Street shall stop at High
Street.
   11.   Fifth Street. Vehicles traveling north on Fifth Street shall stop at
Court Street.
   12.   Fifth Street. Vehicles traveling south on Fifth Street shall stop at
Main Street.
   13.   Fifth Street. Vehicles traveling south on Fifth Street shall stop at
Tonawanda Street.
   14.   First Street. Vehicles traveling on First Street shall stop at High
Street.
   15.   Fourth Street. Vehicles traveling north on Fourth Street shall stop at
Court Street.
   16.   Fourth Street. Vehicles traveling on Fourth Street shall stop at High
Street.
   17.   Fourth Street. Vehicles traveling on Fourth Street shall stop at
Tonawanda Street.
   18.   Fourth Street. Vehicles traveling south on Fourth Street shall stop at
Main Street.
   19.   Grant Street. Vehicles traveling south on Grant Street shall stop at
High Street.
   20.   Lake Street. Vehicles traveling on Lake Street shall stop at First
Street.
   21.   Lake Street. Vehicles traveling on Lake Street shall stop at Fourth
Street.
   22.   Lake Street. Vehicles traveling on Lake Street shall stop at Sixth
Street.
   23.   Lewis Street. Vehicles traveling west on Lewis Street shall stop at
First Street.
   24.   Main Street. Vehicles traveling east on Main Street shall stop at
Fifth Street.
   25.   Main Street. Vehicles traveling on Main Street shall stop at First
Street.
   26.   Main Street. Vehicles traveling west on Main Street shall stop at
Fourth Street.
   27.   Ninth Street. Vehicles traveling north on Ninth Street shall stop at
Court Street.
   28.   Ninth Street. Vehicles traveling north on Ninth Street shall stop at
High Street.
   29.   Ninth Street. Vehicles traveling on Ninth Street shall stop at
Richmond Street.
   30.   Park Lane. Vehicles traveling north on Park Lane shall stop at Eighth
Street.
   31.   Pleasant Street. Vehicles traveling on Pleasant Street shall stop at
Eighth Street.
   32.   Pleasant Street. Vehicles traveling on Pleasant Street shall stop at
First Street.
   33.   Pleasant Street. Vehicles traveling west on Pleasant Street shall stop
at Fourth Street.
   34.   Richmond Street. Vehicles traveling on Richmond Street shall stop at
Eighth Street.
   35.   Richmond Street. Vehicles traveling on Richmond Street shall stop at
Fourth Street.
   36.   Seventh Street. Vehicles traveling north on Seventh Street shall stop
at High Street.
   37.   Seventh Street. Vehicles traveling on Seventh Street shall stop at
Court Street.
   38.   Seventh Street. Vehicles traveling on Seventh Street shall stop at
Main Street.
   39.   Seventh Street. Vehicles traveling south on Seventh Street shall stop
at Tonawanda Street.
   40.   Sixth Street. Vehicles traveling north on Sixth Street shall stop at
High Street.
   41.   Sixth Street. Vehicles traveling on Sixth Street shall stop at Court
Street.
   42.   Sixth Street. Vehicles traveling on Sixth Street shall stop at Main
Street.
   43.   Sixth Street. Vehicles traveling on Sixth Street shall stop at
Tonawanda Street.
   44.   South Street. Vehicles traveling east on South Street shall stop at
First Street.
   45.   South Street. Vehicles traveling on South Street shall stop at Fourth
Street.
   46.   Stewart Street. Vehicles traveling east on Stewart Street shall stop
at First Street.
   47.   Third Street. Vehicles traveling north on Third Street shall stop at
Tonawanda Street.
   48.   Third Street. Vehicles traveling on Third Street shall stop at High
Street.
   49.   Tonawanda Street. Vehicles traveling east on Tonawanda Street shall
stop at First Street.
   50.   Tonawanda Street. Vehicles traveling west on Tonawanda Street shall
stop at Highway 4.
   51.   Warner Street. Vehicles traveling north on Warner Street shall stop at
High Street.
   52.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling east on Washington Street shall
stop at First Street.
65.02   THREE-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the following designated
three-way stop intersections:
   1.   Third Street and Austin Street. Vehicles approaching the intersection
of Austin Street and Third Street from the south, east, and west shall stop
before entering such intersection.
   2.   Park Road and Austin Street. Vehicles approaching the intersection of
Park Road and Austin Street from the south, east, and west shall stop before
entering such intersection.
65.03   FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the following designated
four-way stop intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Intersection of Court Street and First Street.
   2.   Intersection of Lake Street and Brower Street.
   3.   Intersection of Main Street and Brower Street.
65.04   YIELD REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall yield in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Lake Street. Vehicles traveling on Lake Street shall yield at Seventh
Street.
65.05   STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK.
The driver of a vehicle emerging from a private roadway, alley, driveway, or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk
area and thereafter shall proceed into the sidewalk area only when able to do
so without danger to pedestrian traffic and shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicular traffic on the street into which the vehicle is entering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.353)
65.06   STOP WHEN TRAFFIC IS OBSTRUCTED.
Notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed, no driver
shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient
space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the
vehicle.
65.07   PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-OF-WAY.
Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver of a
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need be, to
so yield to a pedestrian or a person riding a bicycle crossing the roadway
within any marked crosswalk or within any unmarked crosswalk at an
intersection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.327)
CHAPTER 66
LOAD AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
 
66.01 Temporary Embargo                  66.04 Load Limits on Bridges
66.02 Permits for Excess Size and Weight 66.05 Truck Routes
66.03 Load Limits Upon Certain Streets    
 
66.01   TEMPORARY EMBARGO.
If the Council declares an embargo when it appears by reason of deterioration,
rain, snow, or other climatic conditions that certain streets will be seriously
damaged or destroyed by vehicles weighing in excess of an amount specified by
the signs, no such vehicles shall be operated on streets so designated by such
signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471 and 472)
66.02   PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT.
The Police Chief may, upon application and good cause being shown, issue a
special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move a
vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight or load exceeding the
maximum specified by State law or the City over those streets or bridges named
in the permit which are under the jurisdiction of the City and for which the
City is responsible for maintenance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 321E.2)
66.03   LOAD LIMITS UPON CERTAIN STREETS.
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified on such signs at
any time upon any of the following streets or parts of streets:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 475)
- NONE -
66.04   LOAD LIMITS ON BRIDGES.
Where it has been determined that any City bridge has a capacity less than the
maximum permitted on the streets of the City, or on the street serving the
bridge, the Police Chief may cause to be posted and maintained signs on said
bridge and at suitable distances ahead of the entrances thereof to warn drivers
of such maximum load limits. No person shall drive upon said bridge any vehicle
weighing, loaded or unloaded, in excess of such posted limit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471)
66.05   TRUCK ROUTES.
Truck route regulations are established as follows:
   1.   Truck Routes Designated. Every motor vehicle weighing five tons or
more, when loaded or empty, having no fixed terminal within the City or making
no scheduled or definite stops within the City for the purpose of loading or
unloading shall travel over or upon the following streets within the City and
none other:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
      A.   Court Street from First Street to Fourth Street.
      B.   Court Street from First Street to the elevator entrance.
      C.   Eighth Street from north corporate line to High Street and from
south corporate line to Tonawanda Street.
      D.   First Street from north corporate line to south corporate line.
      E.   First Street to Fourth Street.
      F.   High Street from west corporate line to east corporate line.
      G.   Highway 4 from south corporate line to High Street.
      H.   Third Street from Jones Street to Tonawanda Street.
      I.   Tonawanda Street from west corporate line to First Street.
   2.   Deliveries Off Truck Route. Any motor vehicle weighing five tons or
more, when loaded or empty, having a fixed terminal, making a scheduled or
definite stop within the City for the purpose of loading or unloading shall
proceed over or upon the designated routes set out in this section to the
nearest point of its scheduled or definite stop and shall proceed thereto, load
or unload, and return by the most direct route to its point of departure from
said designated route.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
   3.   Employer’s Responsibility. The owner or any other person employing or
otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle shall not require or knowingly
permit the operation of such vehicle upon a street in any manner contrary to
this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
   4.   Semi tractors may travel streets for the purpose to park on the owner’s
property on a temporary basis. The owner or operator shall not run engine for
long periods and not overnight from 8:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. and shall not annoy
or cause distress to the neighborhood.
CHAPTER 67
PEDESTRIANS
 
67.01 Walking in Street 67.03 Pedestrian Crossing
67.02 Hitchhiking       67.04 Use of Sidewalks
 
67.01   WALKING IN STREET.
Pedestrians shall at all times when walking on or along a street, walk on the
left side of the street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.326)
67.02   HITCHHIKING.
No person shall stand in the traveled portion of a street for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the driver of any private vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.331)
67.03   PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.328)
67.04   USE OF SIDEWALKS.
Where sidewalks are provided it is unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along
and upon an adjacent street.
CHAPTER 68
ONE-WAY TRAFFIC
68.01   ONE-WAY TRAFFIC REQUIRED.
Upon the following streets and alleys, vehicular traffic, other than permitted
cross traffic, shall move only in the indicated direction when appropriate
signs are in place.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[4])
   1.   Court Street is eastbound from Fifth Street to Fourth Street.
   2.   Fifth Street is southbound from Main Street to Court Street.
   3.   Fourth Street is northbound from Court Street to Main Street.
   4.   Main Street is westbound from Fourth Street to Fifth Street.
CHAPTER 69
PARKING REGULATIONS
 
69.01 Park Adjacent to Curb        69.06 Parking Prohibited
69.02 Parking on One-Way Streets   69.07 Persons with Disabilities Parking
69.03 Angle Parking                69.08 No Parking Zones
69.04 Manner of Angle Parking      69.09 All Night Parking Prohibited
69.05 Parking for Certain Purposes 69.10 Snow Emergency
Illegal
 
69.01   PARK ADJACENT TO CURB.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with
the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and
with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in the case of angle parking and
vehicles parked on the left-hand side of one-way streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.02   PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle on the left-hand side of a one-way
street other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction
of lawful traffic movement and with the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within
18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in
the case of angle parking.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.03   ANGLE PARKING.
Angle or diagonal parking is permitted only in the following locations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
   1.   Brower Street, on the east side, from Main Street to Court Street.
   2.   Brower Street, on the west side, from Lake Street to Main Street.
   3.   Court Street, from Third Street right-of-way to Sixth Street.
   4.   Eighth Street, on the east side, from Main Street north to alley.
   5.   Fifth Street, on the west side, from Main Street to Court Street.
   6.   Fourth Street, from Richmond Street to Main Street.
   7.   Fourth Street, on both sides, from Main Street north to alley.
   8.   Lake Street, on the south side, from Brower Street, 320 feet west.
   9.   Main Street, from Fourth Street to Fifth Street.
   10.   Main Street, on the north side, from Brower Street, 320 feet west.
   11.   Main Street, on the north side, from Eighth Street, 180 feet east.
   12.   Main Street, on the north side, from Fifth Street to Sixth Street.
   13.   Main Street, on the south side, from Fifth Street west to alley.
   14.   Main Street, on the south side, from Fourth Street east to the alley.
   15.   Sixth Street, on the west side, from Main Street north to alley.
69.04   MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
Upon those streets or portions of streets that have been signed or marked for
angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at an angle
to the curb or edge of the roadway or in the center of the roadway as indicated
by such signs and markings. No part of any vehicle or the load thereon, when
said vehicle is parked within a diagonal parking district, shall extend into
the roadway more than a distance of 16 feet when measured at right angles to
the adjacent curb or edge of roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.05   PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES ILLEGAL.
No person shall park a vehicle upon public property for more than 72 hours,
unless otherwise limited under the provisions of this chapter, or for any of
the following principal purposes:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
1.   Sale. Displaying such vehicle for sale.
2.   Repairing. For lubricating, repairing, or for commercial washing of such
vehicle except such repairs as are necessitated by an emergency.
3.   Advertising. Displaying advertising.
4.   Merchandise Sales. Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a duly
established market place or when so authorized or licensed under this Code of
Ordinances.
69.06   PARKING PROHIBITED.
No one shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
   1.   Crosswalk. On a crosswalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[5])
   2.   Center Parkway. On the center parkway or dividing area of any divided
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   3.   Mailboxes. Within 20 feet on either side of a mailbox that is so placed
and so equipped as to permit the depositing of mail from vehicles on the
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   4.   Sidewalks. On or across a sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[1])
   5.   Driveway. In front of a public or private driveway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[2])
   6.   Intersection. Within an intersection or within 10 feet of an
intersection of any street or alley.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[3])
   7.   Fire Hydrant. Within five feet of a fire hydrant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[4])
   8.   Stop Sign or Signal. Within 10 feet upon the approach to any flashing
beacon, stop or yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[6])
   9.   Railroad Crossing. Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing, except when parked parallel with such rail and not exhibiting a red
light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[8])
   10.   Fire Station. Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within 75 feet of said entrance when properly sign posted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[9])
   11.   Excavations. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or
obstruction when such stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[10])
   12.   Double Parking. On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked
at the edge or curb of a street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[11])
   13.   Hazardous Locations. When, because of restricted visibility or when
standing or parked vehicles would constitute a hazard to moving traffic, or
when other traffic conditions require, the Council may cause curbs to be
painted with a yellow color and erect no parking or standing signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[13])
   14.   Churches, Nursing Homes, and Other Buildings. A space of 50 feet is
hereby reserved at the side of the street in front of any theatre, auditorium,
hotel having more than 25 sleeping rooms, hospital, nursing home, taxicab
stand, bus depot, church, or other building where large assemblages of people
are being held, within which space, when clearly marked as such, no motor
vehicle shall be left standing, parked or stopped except in taking on or
discharging passengers or freight, and then only for such length of time as is
necessary for such purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.360)
   15.   Alleys. No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than 10 feet of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person
shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property. The provisions of this
subsection do not apply to a vehicle parked in any alley that is 18 feet wide
or less, provided that said vehicle is parked to deliver goods or services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   16.   Ramps. In front of a curb cut or ramp which is located on public or
private property in a manner which blocks access to the curb cut or ramp.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[15])
   17.   Area Between Lot Line and Curb Line. That area of the public way not
covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and the curb line, where
curbing has been installed.
   18.   In More Than One Space. In any designated parking space so that any
part of the vehicle occupies more than one such space or protrudes beyond the
markings designating such space.
69.07   PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.
The following regulations shall apply to the establishment and use of persons
with disabilities parking spaces:
   1.   Establishment. Persons with disabilities parking spaces shall be
established and designated in accordance with Chapter 321L of the Code of Iowa
and Iowa Administrative Code, 661-18. No unauthorized person shall establish
any on-street persons with disabilities parking space without first obtaining
Council approval.
   2.   Improper Use. The following uses of a persons with disabilities parking
space, located on either public or private property, constitute improper use of
a persons with disabilities parking permit, which is a violation of this Code
of Ordinances:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321L.4[2])
      A.   Use by an operator of a vehicle not displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit.
      B.   Use by an operator of a vehicle displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit but not being used by a person issued a permit or
being transported in accordance with Section 321L.2[1b] of the Code of Iowa.
      C.   Use by a vehicle in violation of the rules adopted under Section
321L.8 of the Code of Iowa.
   3.   Wheelchair Parking Cones. No person shall use or interfere with a
wheelchair parking cone in violation of the following:
      A.   A person issued a persons with disabilities parking permit must
comply with the requirements of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa when
utilizing a wheelchair parking cone.
      B.   A person shall not interfere with a wheelchair parking cone that is
properly placed under the provisions of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa.
69.08   NO PARKING ZONES.
No one shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in any of the following
specifically designated no parking zones except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a peace
officer or traffic control signal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   1.   Austin Street, on the south side, from Grant Street to Park Lane.
   2.   Brower Street, on the west side, from High Street to Lake Street.
   3.   Brower Street, on the west side, from Main Street to Court Street.
   4.   Butler Street, on the south side, from First Street to Third Street.
   5.   Court Street, on the south side, from Fifth Street to Ninth Street and
First Street to Brower Street.
   6.   East Lake Street, on the north side, from Brower Street to Warner
Street.
   7.   East Lake Street, on the south side, from 100 feet east of Elm Street
to Ninth Street.
   8.   East Lake Street, on the south side, from Warner Street to Brower
Street.
   9.   Eighth Street, on the west side, from Park Lane to Tonawanda Street.
   10.   Elm Street, on the west side ,from Austin Street to Court Street.
   11.   Fifth Street, on the west side, from Pleasant Street to Main Street
and from 210 feet south of Court Street to Tonawanda Street.
   12.   First Street, on both sides, from north corporate line to south
corporate line.
   13.   Fourth Street, on the west side, from South Street to Tonawanda Street
and on both sides from Lake Street to High Street.
   14.   Golden Buckle Drive, outer perimeter of the horseshoe drive.
   15.   Grant Street, on the west side, from Austin Street to High Street.
   16.   High Street, on both sides, from the east corporate line to west
corporate line.
   17.   Lewis Street, on the south side, from Grant Street to First Street.
   18.   Main Street, on the south side, from Brower Street to Third Street.
   19.   Main Street, on the south side, from Sixth Street to Ninth Street.
   20.   Ninth Street, on the west side, from High Street to Tonawanda Street.
   21.   Pleasant Street, on the south side, from Brower Street to Fourth
Street.
   22.   Pleasant Street, on the south side, from Fifth Street to Ninth Street.
   23.   Richmond Street, on the south side, from Third Street to Ninth Street.
   24.   Seventh Street, on the west side, from High Street to Tonawanda
Street.
   25.   Sixth Street ,on the west side, from High Street to Tonawanda Street.
   26.   South Street, on the south side, from Fourth Street to Ninth Street.
   27.   Stewart Street, on the south side, from First Street to Third Street.
   28.   Third Street, on the west side, from Austin Street to Main Street.
   29.   Warner Street, on the west side, from High Street to Lake Street.
69.09   ALL NIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED.
No person, except physicians, residences in second floor apartments (except
while snow ordinance is in affect) or other persons on emergency calls shall
park a vehicle on any of the following named streets for a period of time
longer than 30 minutes between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any day.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   1.   Court Street from Sixth Street to Third Street on both sides.
   2.   Fifth Street from Main Street to Court Street on both sides.
   3.   Fourth Street from Lake Street to Richmond Street on both sides.
   4.   Main Street from Fourth Street to Fifth Street on both sides.
69.10   SNOW EMERGENCY.
No person shall park, abandon, or leave unattended any vehicle on any public
street, alley, or City-owned off-street parking area during snow emergency
proclaimed by the Police Department unless the snow has been removed or plowed
from the street, alley or parking area and the snow has ceased to fall. A snow
emergency parking ban shall continue from its proclamation through the duration
of the snow or ice storm and the 48-hour period after cessation of such storm
except as provided in this section upon streets which have been fully opened.
Such a ban shall have uniform application and the Police Chief is directed to
publicize the requirements widely, using all available news media, in early
November each year. When predictions or occurrences indicate the need, the
Police Department shall proclaim a snow emergency and inform the news media to
publicize the proclamation and the parking rules thereunder. Such emergency may
be extended or shortened when conditions warrant.
(Code of Iowa, 321.236[1])
CHAPTER 70
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
 
70.01 Arrest or Citation            70.04 Parking Violations: Vehicle
                                    Unattended
70.02 Scheduled Violations          70.05 Presumption in Reference to Illegal
                                    Parking
70.03 Parking Violations: Alternate 70.06 Impounding Vehicles
 
70.01   ARREST OR CITATION.
Whenever a peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provision of the Traffic Code, such officer may:
   1.   Immediate Arrest. Immediately arrest such person and take such person
before a local magistrate; or
   2.   Issue Citation. Without arresting the person, prepare in quintuplicate
a combined traffic citation and complaint as adopted by the Iowa Commissioner
of Public Safety, or issue a uniform citation and complaint utilizing a State-
approved computerized device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.6 and 321.485)
70.02   SCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.
For violations of the Traffic Code that are designated by Section 805.8A of the
Code of Iowa to be scheduled violations, the scheduled fine for each of those
violations shall be as specified in Section 805.8A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.8 and 805.8A)
70.03   PARKING VIOLATIONS: ALTERNATE.
Uncontested violations of parking restrictions imposed by this Code of
Ordinances shall be charged upon a simple notice of a fine payable at the
office of the Clerk. The fine for each violation charged under a simple notice
of a fine shall be in the amount of $10.00 for all violations except improper
use of a persons with disabilities parking permit. If such fine is not paid
within 30 days, it shall be increased by $5.00. The fine for improper use of a
persons with disabilities parking permit is $100.00. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1b] and 321L.4[2])
70.04   PARKING VIOLATIONS: VEHICLE UNATTENDED.
When a vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the Traffic Code, and
the driver is not present, the notice of fine or citation as herein provided
shall be attached to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
70.05   PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
In any proceeding charging a standing or parking violation, a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred shall be raised by proof that:
   1.   Described Vehicle. The particular vehicle described in the information
was parked in violation of the Traffic Code; and
   2.   Registered Owner. The defendant named in the information was the
registered owner at the time in question.
70.06   IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   1.   A peace officer is hereby authorized to remove, or cause to be removed,
a vehicle from a street, public alley, public parking lot, or highway to the
nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the City, under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
      A.   Disabled Vehicle. When a vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
      B.   Illegally Parked Vehicle. When any vehicle is left unattended and is
so illegally parked as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
      C.   Snow Removal. When any vehicle is left parked in violation of a ban
on parking during snow removal operations.
      D.   Parked Over Limited Time Period. When any vehicle is left parked for
a continuous period in violation of any limited parking time. If the owner can
be located, the owner shall be given an opportunity to remove the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   2.   Costs. In addition to the standard penalties provided, the owner or
driver of any vehicle impounded for the violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be required to pay the reasonable cost of towing and
storage.
CHAPTER 75
ATVS, UTVS, AND SNOWMOBILES
 
75.01 Purpose                  75.05 Operation of ATVs and UTVs
75.02 Definitions              75.06 Negligence
75.03 General Regulations      75.07 Accident Reports
75.04 Operation of Snowmobiles  
 
75.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of all-terrain
vehicles, off-road utility vehicles, and snowmobiles within the City.
75.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “All-terrain vehicle” or “ATV” means a motorized vehicle, with not less
than three and not more than six non-highway tires, that is limited in engine
displacement to less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to
less than 1,200 pounds and that has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled
by the operator and handlebars for steering control.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   2.   “Off-road motorcycle” means a two-wheeled motor vehicle that has a seat
or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering
control and that is intended by the manufacturer for use on natural terrain.
“Off-road motorcycle” includes a motorcycle that was originally issued a
certificate of title and registered for highway use under Chapter 321 of the
Code of Iowa, but which contains design features that enable operation over
natural terrain. An operator of an off-road motorcycle is also subject to the
provisions of this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   3.   “Off-road utility vehicle” or “UTV” means a motorized vehicle, with not
less than four and not more than eight non-highway tires or rubberized tracks,
that has a seat that is of bucket or bench design, not intended to be straddled
by the operator, and a steering wheel or control levers for control. “Off-road
utility vehicle” or “UTV” includes the following vehicles:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
      A.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 1” includes vehicles with a total
dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less and a width of 50 inches or less.
      B.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 2” includes vehicles, other than
Type 1 vehicles, with a total dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less and a width of
65 inches or less.
      C.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 3” includes vehicles with a total
dry weight of more than 2,000 pounds or a width of more than 65 inches, or
both.
   An operator of an UTV is also subject to the provisions of this chapter
governing the operation of ATVs.
   4.   “Snowmobile” means a motorized vehicle that weighs less than 1,000
pounds, that uses sled-type runners or skis, endless belt-type tread with a
width of 48 inches or less, or any combination of runners, skis, or tread, and
is designed for travel on snow or ice. “Snowmobile” does not include an all-
terrain vehicle that has been altered or equipped with runners, skis, belt-type
tracks, or treads.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.1)
75.03   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
No person shall operate an ATV, off-road motorcycle, or off-road utility
vehicle within the City in violation of Chapter 321I of the Code of Iowa or a
snowmobile within the City in violation of the provisions of Chapter 321G of
the Code of Iowa or in violation of rules established by the Natural Resource
Commission of the Department of Natural Resources governing their registration,
equipment and manner of operation.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 321G and Ch. 321I)
75.04   OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES.
The operators of snowmobiles shall comply with the following restrictions as to
where snowmobiles may be operated within the City:
   1.   Streets. Snowmobiles shall be operated only upon streets that have not
been plowed during the snow season and on such other streets as may be
designated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4a])
   2.   Exceptions. Snowmobiles may be operated on prohibited streets only
under the following circumstances:
      A.   Emergencies. Snowmobiles may be operated on any street in an
emergency during the period of time when and at locations where snow upon the
roadway renders travel by conventional motor vehicles impractical.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4c])
      B.   Direct Crossing. Snowmobiles may make a direct crossing of a
prohibited street provided all of the following occur:
         (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing;
         (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
street;
         (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all on-coming traffic that
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
         (4)   In crossing a divided street, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such street with another street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[2])
   3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on an
operating railroad right-of-way. A snowmobile may be driven directly across a
railroad right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any
other provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.13[1h])
   4.   Trails. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on all-terrain vehicle trails
except where so designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4f])
   5.   Parks and Other City Land. Snowmobiles shall not be operated in any
park, playground, or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City. A snowmobile shall not be operated on any City land
without a snow cover of at least one-tenth of one inch.
   6.   Sidewalk or Parking. Snowmobiles shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking” except for
purposes of crossing the same to a public street upon which operation is
authorized by this chapter.
75.05   OPERATION OF ATVS AND UTVS.
The operators of ATVs and UTVs shall comply with the following restrictions as
to where ATVs and UTVs may be operated within the City:
   1.   Streets. ATVs and UTVs may be operated on roadways or highways in
accordance with Section 321.234A of the Code of Iowa. A City may regulate the
operation of registered ATVs and UTVs and may designate streets under the
jurisdiction of the City within its corporate limits, and two-lane primary and
secondary road extensions in the City, which may be used for the operation of
such vehicles. In designating such streets, the City may authorize ATVs and
UTVs to stop at service stations or convenience stores along a designated
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[1 and 3])
   2.   Trails. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated on snowmobile trails except
where designated. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated on bike trails or walking
trails.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[4])
   3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated on an
operating railroad right-of-way. An ATV or UTV may be driven directly across a
railroad right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any
other provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.14[1h])
   4.   Parks and Other City Land. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated in any
park, playground, or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City.
   5.   Sidewalk or Parking. ATVs and UTVs are not permitted to be operated
upon sidewalks unless engaged in snow removal or maintenance activities, nor
shall they be operated upon that portion of the street from the curb to the
sidewalk or property line, commonly referred to as the “parking,” or any off-
street right-of-way, except for the purpose of snow removal, maintenance, or
landscaping activities or as permitted by the Council.
   6.   Private Property. ATVs and UTVs may only be operated on private
property with the express consent of the owner.
   7.   Direct Crossing. An ATV or UTV may make a direct crossing of a highway
that is not part of the interstate road system provided all of the following
occur:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[5])
      A.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing.
      B.   The ATV or UTV is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the highway.
      C.   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard.
      D.   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another public street or highway.
      E.   The crossing is made from a street, roadway, or highway on which the
ATV or UTV is authorized to operate to a street, roadway, or highway on which
such vehicle is authorized to operate.
   8.   Unlawful Operation. A person shall not operate an ATV or UTV under any
of the following circumstances:
      A.   Without being at least 18 years of age and have a valid driver’s
license.
      B.   Without current vehicle registration on display, pursuant to the
Code of Iowa.
      C.   Without maintaining and providing current proof of financial
responsibility on the ATV or UTV being driven in accordance with the Code of
Iowa.
      D.   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under existing
circumstances, having due regard to the traffic, surface, and any other
condition existing, but not greater than 25 MPH.
      E.   In a careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to:
         (1)   Endanger any person, including the operator;
         (2)   Cause injury or damage to person or property;
         (3)   Create unnecessary skidding or sliding or cause any wheel or
wheels to unnecessarily lose contact with the road surface.
      F.   Without D.O.T. approved motorcycle helmet if you are a passenger
under the age of 18.
      G.   Without the use of the factory installed safety restraints.
      H.   Without a lighted headlamp, a lighted rear lamp, and equipped with
at least one mirror so located as to reflect to the operator a view to the rear
of the vehicle a distance of at least 200 feet.
      I.   With a firearm in the persons possession unless it is unloaded and
enclosed in a carrying case.
      J.   With more persons on the vehicle than it was designed to carry.
      K.   Without the ATV or UTV bearing at least eight square inches of red
and white reflective tape or factory installed red reflectors affixed to the
rear of the vehicle so that it is clearly visible, unless it has factory
installed taillights.
      L.   In a manner which caused the road surface material on the roadway to
be disrupted or moved in any fashion such as to cause the road surface to have
ruts, cause standing water, or in any fashion require additional maintenance or
grading so as to restore the regular crown or shape.
      M.   No persons shall pull a trailer that blocks the view of the
taillights and the view of the driver of the ATV or UTV.
75.06   NEGLIGENCE.
The owner and operator of an ATV, UTV, or snowmobile are liable for any injury
or damage occasioned by the negligent operation of the ATV, UTV, or snowmobile.
The owner of an ATV, UTV, or snowmobile shall be liable for any such injury or
damage only if the owner was the operator of the ATV, UTV, or snowmobile at the
time the injury or damage occurred or if the operator had the owner’s consent
to operate the ATV, UTV, or snowmobile at the time the injury or damage
occurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.18 and 321I.19)
75.07   ACCIDENT REPORTS.
Whenever an ATV, UTV, or snowmobile is involved in an accident resulting in
injury or death to anyone or property damage amounting to $1,500.00 or more,
either the operator or someone acting for the operator shall immediately notify
a law enforcement officer and shall file an accident report, in accordance with
State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.10 and 321I.11)
CHAPTER 76
BICYCLE REGULATIONS
 
76.01 Scope of Regulations            76.08 Riding on Sidewalks
76.02 Traffic Code Applies            76.09 Towing
76.03 Double Riding Restricted        76.10 Improper Riding
76.04 Two Abreast Limit               76.11 Parking
76.05 Speed                           76.12 Equipment Requirements
76.06 Emerging From Alley or Driveway 76.13 Special Penalty
76.07 Carrying Articles                
 
76.01   SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
These regulations shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street or
upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to
those exceptions stated herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.02   TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by the laws of the State declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or
by the Traffic Code of the City applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except
as to those provisions that by their nature can have no application. Whenever
such person dismounts from a bicycle, the person shall be subject to all
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234)
76.03   DOUBLE RIDING RESTRICTED.
A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent and
regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons
at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234[3 and 4])
76.04   TWO ABREAST LIMIT.
Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles. All bicycles ridden on the roadway shall be kept to the right and
shall be operated as near as practicable to the right-hand edge of the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.05   SPEED.
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.06   EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building shall,
upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk or
sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.07   CARRYING ARTICLES.
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article that
prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.08   RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
The following provisions apply to riding bicycles on sidewalks:
   1.   Business District. No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk
within the Business District, as defined in Section 60.02(1) of this Code of
Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
   2.   Other Locations. When signs are erected on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, no person shall
disobey the signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
   3.   Yield Right-of-Way. Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.09   TOWING.
It is unlawful for any person riding a bicycle to be towed or to tow any other
vehicle upon the streets of the City unless the vehicle is manufactured for
such use.
76.10   IMPROPER RIDING.
No person shall ride a bicycle in an irregular or reckless manner such as
zigzagging, stunting, speeding, or otherwise so as to disregard the safety of
the operator or others.
76.11   PARKING.
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.12   EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
Every person riding a bicycle shall be responsible for providing and using
equipment as provided herein:
   1.   Lamps Required. Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front emitting a white light visible from a
distance of at least 300 feet to the front and with a lamp on the rear
exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 300 feet to the rear, except
that a red reflector on the rear, of a type that is visible from all distances
from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper
beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle, may be used in lieu of a rear light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.397)
   2.   Brakes Required. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake that will
enable the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean
pavement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.13   SPECIAL PENALTY.
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter may, in lieu of the
scheduled fine for bicyclists or standard penalty provided for violations of
this Code of Ordinances, allow the person’s bicycle to be impounded by the City
for not less than five days for the first offense, 10 days for a second
offense, and 30 days for a third offense.
CHAPTER 77
GOLF CARTS
 
77.01 Purpose                           77.05 Equipment
77.02 Definition                        77.06 Hours
77.03 Operation of Golf Carts Permitted 77.07 Permits
77.04 Prohibited Streets                77.08 Operation of Golf Carts
 
77.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to permit the operation of golf carts on streets
in the City as authorized by Section 321.247 of the Code of Iowa. This chapter
applies whenever a golf cart is operated on any street or alley.
77.02   DEFINITION.
“Golf cart” means a four-wheeled recreational vehicle generally used for
transportation of persons in the sport of golf that is either electric-powered
or gas-powered with a ground speed limited to 25 MPH.
77.03   OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS PERMITTED.
Golf carts may be operated upon the streets of the City by persons possessing a
valid driver’s license, except as prohibited in Section 77.04.
77.04   PROHIBITED STREETS.
Golf carts shall not be operated upon any City street that is a primary road
extension through the City. However, golf carts may cross such a primary road
extension.
77.05   EQUIPMENT.
Golf carts operated upon City streets shall be equipped with a slow-moving
vehicle sign and a bicycle safety flag at all times during operation and shall
be equipped with adequate brakes.
77.06   HOURS.
Golf carts may be operated on City streets only between sunrise and sunset.
77.07   PERMITS.
   1.   No person shall operate a golf cart on the City streets or alleys
unless the operator possesses a City permit to operate the golf cart.
   2.   The City shall not issue a permit to a golf cart except under the
following conditions:
      A.   Payment of an annual $50.00 permit fee. Permits are for January 1 to
December 31.
      B.   Permits are issued for a specific golf cart.
      C.   A permit sticker shall be attached to the left front fender of the
golf cart.
      D.   The Police Department or Mayor may revoke the permit if the operator
violates any provisions of this chapter. The permit shall be renewed or
reinstated only upon a majority vote of the Council.
77.08   OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS.
   1.   Golf carts shall not operate on sidewalks or in City parks.
   2.   No golf cart shall carry more persons than the golf cart has seats and
that the golf cart is designed for. All passengers shall ride in a seat and not
on some other part of the golf cart. Passengers shall not stand in a golf cart
or sit on another passenger.
   3.   Persons must be 18 years of age or older to operate golf carts.
   4.   Golf cart passengers must be six years of age or older.
   5.   Passengers under the age of 18 must wear a D.O.T. approved motorcycle
helmet.
   6.   Golf carts shall have a lighted headlamp, a lighted rear lamp, and
equipped with at least one mirror so located as to reflect to the operator a
view to the rear of the vehicle a distance of at least 200 feet.
   7.   Golf carts shall not exceed 25 MPH.
   8.   Golf carts shall not operate in a careless, reckless, or negligent
manner.
   9.   The owner of the golf cart shall have liability insurance on the golf
cart of not less than $100,000.00.
   10.   Golf carts shall be driven as close as practical to the right-hand
edge of the street, except when making a left turn.
   11.   Golf carts shall operate in a single file.
   12.   No persons shall pull a trailer that blocks the view of the view of
the taillights and the view of the driver of the golf cart.
   13.   Golf carts shall yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians.
   14.   Golf carts shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles at
uncontrolled intersections regardless of Section 321.319 of the Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 80
ABANDONED VEHICLES
 
80.01 Definitions                       80.06 Disposal of Abandoned Vehicles
80.02 Authority to Take Possession of   80.07 Disposal of Totally Inoperable
Abandoned Vehicles                      Vehicles
80.03 Notice by Mail                    80.08 Proceeds from Sales
80.04 Reclamation of Abandoned Vehicles 80.09 Duties of Demolisher
80.05 Fees for Impoundment               
 
80.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[1] and Sec. 321.90)
   1.   “Abandoned vehicle” means any of the following:
      A.   A vehicle that has been left unattended on public property for more
than 24 hours and lacks current registration plates or two or more wheels or
other parts which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
      B.   A vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for more
than 24 hours.
      C.   A vehicle that has been unlawfully parked or placed on private
property without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property
for more than 24 hours.
      D.   A vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of a police
authority and has not been reclaimed for a period of 10 days. However, a police
authority may declare the vehicle abandoned within the 10-day period by
commencing the notification process.
      E.   Any vehicle parked on the highway determined by a police authority
to create a hazard to other vehicle traffic.
      F.   A vehicle that has been impounded pursuant to Section 321J.4B of the
Code of Iowa by order of the court and whose owner has not paid the impoundment
fees after notification by the person or agency responsible for carrying out
the impoundment order.
   2.   “Demolisher” means a person licensed under Chapter 321H of the Code of
Iowa whose business it is to convert a vehicle to junk, processed scrap, or
scrap metal, or otherwise to wreck, or dismantle vehicles.
   3.   “Garage keeper” means any operator of a parking place or establishment,
motor vehicle storage facility, or establishment for the servicing, repair, or
maintenance of motor vehicles.
   4.   “Police authority” means the Iowa State Patrol or any law enforcement
agency of a county or city.
80.02   AUTHORITY TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
A police authority, upon the authority’s own initiative or upon the request of
any other authority having the duties of control of highways or traffic, shall
take into custody an abandoned vehicle on public property and may take into
custody any abandoned vehicle on private property. The police authority may
employ its own personnel, equipment, and facilities or hire a private entity,
equipment, and facilities for the purpose of removing, preserving, storing, or
disposing of abandoned vehicles. A property owner or other person in control of
private property may employ a private entity that is a garage keeper to dispose
of an abandoned vehicle, and the private entity may take into custody the
abandoned vehicle without a police authority’s initiative. If a police
authority employs a private entity to dispose of abandoned vehicles, the police
authority shall provide the private entity with the names and addresses of the
registered owners, all lienholders of record, and any other known claimant to
the vehicle or the personal property found in the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[2])
80.03   NOTICE BY MAIL.
   1.   A police authority or private entity that takes into custody an
abandoned vehicle shall send notice by certified mail that the vehicle has been
taken into custody, no more than 20 days after taking custody of the vehicle.
Notice shall be sent to the last known address of record of the last known
registered owner of the vehicle, all lienholders of record, and any other known
claimant to the vehicle.
   2.   Notice shall be deemed given when mailed. The notice shall include all
of the following:
      A.   A description of the year, make, model and vehicle identification
number of the vehicle.
      B.   The location of the facility where the vehicle is being held.
      C.   Information for the persons receiving the notice of their right to
reclaim the vehicle and personal property contained therein within 10 days
after the effective date of the notice. Persons may reclaim the vehicle or
personal property upon payment of all towing, preservation, and storage charges
resulting from placing the vehicle in custody and upon payment of the costs of
the notice required pursuant to this section.
      D.   A statement that failure of the owner, lienholders, or claimants to
exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
time provided shall be deemed a waiver by the owner, lienholders, and claimants
of all right, title, claim, and interest in the vehicle or personal property.
      E.   A statement that failure to reclaim the vehicle or personal property
is deemed consent for the police authority or private entity to sell the
vehicle at a public auction or dispose of the vehicle to a demolisher and to
dispose of the personal property by sale or destruction.
   3.   If the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a private entity
without a police authority’s initiative, the notice shall state that the
private entity may claim a garage keeper’s lien as described in Section 321.90,
Subsection 1, of the Code of Iowa, and may proceed to sell or dispose of the
vehicle.
   4.   If the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a police authority
or by a private entity hired by a police authority, the notice shall state that
any person claiming rightful possession of the vehicle or personal property who
disputes the planned disposition of the vehicle or property by the police
authority or private entity, or of the assessment of fees and charges provided
by this section, may ask for an evidentiary hearing before the police authority
to contest those matters.
   5.   If the persons receiving notice do not ask for a hearing or exercise
their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the 10-day
reclaiming period, the owner, lienholders, or claimants shall no longer have
any right, title, claim, or interest in or to the vehicle or the personal
property.
   6.   A court in any case in law or equity shall not recognize any right,
title, claim, or interest of the owner, lienholders, or claimants after the
expiration of the 10-day reclaiming period.
   7.   If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the
identities and addresses of the last registered owner and all lienholders,
notice by one publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the area
where the vehicle was abandoned shall be sufficient to meet all requirements of
notice under Subsection 2 of this section. The published notice may contain
multiple listings of abandoned vehicles, but shall be published within the same
time requirements and contain the same information as prescribed for mailed
notice in Subsection 2 of this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3])
80.04   RECLAMATION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
Prior to driving an abandoned vehicle away from the premises, a person who
received (or who is reclaiming the vehicle on behalf of a person who received)
notice under Section
80.03 shall present to the police authority or private entity, as applicable,
the person’s valid driver’s license and proof of financial liability coverage
as provided in Section 321.20B of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.05   FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
The owner, lienholder, or claimant shall pay $25.00 if claimed within five days
of impounding, plus $10.00 for each additional day within the reclaiming period
plus towing charges, if stored by the City, or towing and storage fees, if
stored in a public garage, whereupon said vehicle shall be released. The amount
of towing charges, and the rate of storage charges by privately owned garages,
shall be established by such facility.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.06   DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
If an abandoned vehicle has not been reclaimed as provided herein, the police
authority or private entity shall make a determination as to whether or not the
motor vehicle should be sold for use upon the highways, and shall dispose of
the motor vehicle in accordance with State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.07   DISPOSAL OF TOTALLY INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
The City or any person upon whose property or in whose possession is found any
abandoned motor vehicle, or any person being the owner of a motor vehicle whose
title certificate is faulty, lost, or destroyed, may dispose of such motor
vehicle to a demolisher for junk, without a title and without notification
procedures, if such motor vehicle lacks an engine or two or more wheels or
other structural part which renders the vehicle totally inoperable. The police
authority shall give the applicant a certificate of authority. The applicant
shall then apply to the County Treasurer for a junking certificate and shall
surrender the certificate of authority in lieu of the certificate of title.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[2e])
80.08   PROCEEDS FROM SALES.
Proceeds from the sale of any abandoned vehicle shall be applied to the expense
of auction, cost of towing, preserving, storing, and notification required, in
accordance with State law. Any balance shall be held for the owner of the motor
vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days, and then shall be deposited in the
State Road Use Tax Fund. Where the sale of any vehicle fails to realize the
amount necessary to meet costs the police authority shall apply for
reimbursement from the Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.09   DUTIES OF DEMOLISHER.
Any demolisher who purchases or otherwise acquires an abandoned motor vehicle
for junk shall junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or otherwise demolish such motor
vehicle. A demolisher shall not junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or demolish a
vehicle until the demolisher has obtained the junking certificate issued for
the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[3a])
CHAPTER 81
RAILROAD REGULATIONS
 
81.01 Definitions         81.03 Crossing Maintenance
81.02 Obstructing Streets  
 
81.01   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Operator” means any individual, partnership, corporation, or other
association that owns, operates, drives, or controls a railroad train.
   2.   “Railroad train” means an engine or locomotive, with or without cars
coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)
81.02   OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
Operators shall not operate any train in such a manner as to prevent vehicular
use of any highway, street, or alley for a period of time in excess of 10
minutes except:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 327G.32)
   1.   Comply with Signals. When necessary to comply with signals affecting
the safety of the movement of trains.
   2.   Avoid Striking. When necessary to avoid striking any object or person
on the track.
   3.   Disabled. When the train is disabled.
   4.   Safety Regulations. When necessary to comply with governmental safety
regulations including, but not limited to, speed ordinances and speed
regulations.
   5.   In Motion. When the train is in motion except while engaged in
switching operations.
   6.   No Traffic. When there is no vehicular traffic waiting to use the
crossing.
   7.   Loading Grain Cars. When loading grain cars in accordance with Section
81.05 of this chapter.
An employee is not guilty of a violation of this section if the employee’s
action was necessary to comply with the direct order or instructions of a
railroad corporation or its supervisors. Guilt is then with the railroad
corporation.
81.03   CROSSING MAINTENANCE.
   Operators shall construct and maintain good, sufficient, and safe crossings
over any street traversed by their rails.
(Bourett vs. Chicago and N.W. Ry. 152 Iowa 579, 132 N.W. 973 [1943])
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.11)
CHAPTER 90
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
90.01 Definitions                        90.12 Responsibility for Water Service
                                         Pipe
90.02 Superintendent’s Duties          90.13 Failure to Maintain
90.03 Mandatory Connections              90.14 Curb Valve
90.04 Abandoned Connections              90.15 Interior Valve
90.05 Permit                             90.16 Inspection and Approval
90.06 Fee for Permit                     90.17 Completion by the City
90.07 Compliance with Plumbing Code      90.18 Shutting Off Water Supply
90.08 Plumber Required                   90.19 Operation of Curb Valve and
                                         Hydrants
90.09 Excavations                        90.20 Regulation of Wells within City
                                         Limits
90.10 Tapping Mains                      90.21 Backflow Prevention
90.11 Installation of Water Service Pipe  
 
 
90.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in the chapters in this Code of
Ordinances pertaining to the Water Service System:
   1.   “Combined service account” means a customer service account for the
provision of two or more utility services.
   2.   “Customer” means, in addition to any person receiving water service
from the City, the owner of the property served, and as between such parties
the duties, responsibilities, liabilities, and obligations hereinafter imposed
shall be joint and several.
   3.   “Superintendent” means the Superintendent of the City water system or
any duly authorized assistant, agent, or representative.
   4.   “Water main” means a water supply pipe provided for public or community
use.
   5.   “Water service pipe” means the pipe from the water main to the building
served.
   6.   “Water system” or “water works” means all public facilities for
securing, collecting, storing, pumping, treating, and distributing water.
90.02   SUPERINTENDENT’S DUTIES.  
The Superintendent shall supervise the installation of water service pipes and
their connection to the water main and enforce all regulations pertaining to
water services in the City in accordance with this chapter. This chapter shall
apply to all replacements of existing water service pipes as well as to new
ones. The Superintendent shall make such rules, not in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter, as may be needed for the detailed operation of the
water system, subject to the approval of the Council. In the event of an
emergency the Superintendent may make temporary rules for the protection of the
system until due consideration by the Council may be had.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
90.03   MANDATORY CONNECTIONS.
The owners of any houses, buildings or structures used for human occupancy,
employment or use, situated within the City and abutting on any street, alley,
or right-of-way in which there is located a public water main are hereby
required to connect such facilities to the City’s public water system in
accordance with the provisions of these Water Service chapters within 30 days
after the date of official notice to do so, provided that said public water
main is located within 200 feet of the property line of such owner.
90.04   ABANDONED CONNECTIONS.
When an existing water service is abandoned or a service is renewed with a new
tap in the main, all abandoned connections with the mains shall be turned off
at the corporation stop and made absolutely watertight.
90.05   PERMIT.
Before any person makes a connection with the public water system, a written
permit must be obtained from the City. The application for the permit shall
include a legal description of the property, the name of the property owner,
the name and address of the person who will do the work, and the general uses
of the water. If the proposed work meets all the requirements of this chapter
and if all fees required under this chapter have been paid, the permit shall be
issued. Work under any permit must be completed within 30 days after the permit
is issued, except that when such time period is inequitable or unfair due to
conditions beyond the control of the person making the application, an
extension of time within which to complete the work may be granted. The permit
may be revoked at any time for any violation of these chapters.
90.06   FEE FOR PERMIT.
Before any permit is issued, the person who makes the application shall pay the
following fee to the Clerk to cover the cost of issuing the permit and
supervising, regulating, and inspecting the work.
   1.   $25.00 within the City.
   2.   $250.00 plus all cost associated with tapping the line - for Highway 4
Waterline and 4/20 Development.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
90.07   COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE.
The installation of any water service pipe and any connection with the water
system shall comply with all pertinent and applicable provisions, whether
regulatory, procedural, or enforcement provisions, of the State Plumbing Code.
90.08   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installations of water service pipes and connections to the water system
shall be made by a State-licensed plumber.
90.09   EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required in making a connection
shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the State Plumbing Code
and the provisions of Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
90.10   TAPPING MAINS.
All taps into water mains shall be made by or under the direct supervision of
the Superintendent and in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Independent Services. No more than one house, building, or premises
shall be supplied from one tap unless special written permission is obtained
from the Superintendent and unless provision is made so that each house,
building, or premises may be shut off independently of the other.
   2.   Sizes and Location of Taps. All mains six inches or less in diameter
shall receive no larger than a three-fourths inch tap. All mains over six
inches in diameter shall receive no larger than a one-inch tap. Where a larger
connection than a one-inch tap is desired, two or more small taps or saddles
shall be used, as the Superintendent shall order. All taps in the mains shall
be made in the top half of the pipe, at least 18 inches apart. No main shall be
tapped nearer than two feet of the joint in the main.
   3.   Corporation Stop. A brass corporation stop-, of the pattern and weight
approved by the Superintendent-, shall be inserted in every tap in the main.
The corporation stop in the main shall be the same size as the service pipe.
   4.   Location Record. An accurate and dimensional sketch showing the exact
location of the tap shall be filed with the Superintendent in such form as the
Superintendent shall require.
90.11   INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE PIPE.
Water service pipes from the main to the meter setting shall be Type K copper.
The use of any other pipe material for the service line shall first be approved
by the Superintendent. Pipe must be laid sufficiently waving, and to such
depth, as to prevent rupture from settlement or freezing.
90.12   RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER SERVICE PIPE.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the water service pipe from the main to the building served
shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss
or damage that may, directly or indirectly, be occasioned by the installation
or maintenance of said water service pipe.
90.13   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
When any portion of the water service pipe which is the responsibility of the
property owner becomes defective or creates a nuisance and the owner fails to
correct such nuisance, the City may do so and assess the costs thereof to the
property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a and h])
90.14   CURB VALVE.
There shall be installed within the public right-of-way a main shut-off valve
on the water service pipe of a pattern approved by the Superintendent. The
shut-off valve shall be constructed to be visible and even with the pavement or
ground.
90.15   INTERIOR VALVE.
There shall be installed a shut-off valve on every service pipe inside the
building as close to the entrance of the pipe within the building as possible
and so located that the water can be shut off conveniently. Where one service
pipe supplies more than one customer within the building, there shall be
separate valves for each such customer so that service may be shut off for one
without interfering with service to the others.
90.16   INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
All water service pipes and their connections to the water system must be
inspected and approved in writing by the Superintendent before they are
covered, and the Superintendent shall keep a record of such approvals. If the
Superintendent refuses to approve the work, the plumber or property owner must
proceed immediately to correct the work. Every person who uses or intends to
use the municipal water system shall permit the Superintendent to enter the
premises to inspect or make necessary alterations or repairs at all reasonable
hours and on proof of authority.
90.17   COMPLETION BY THE CITY.
Should any excavation be left open or only partly refilled for 24 hours after
the water service pipe is installed and connected with the water system, or
should the work be improperly done, the City shall have the right to finish or
correct the work, and the Council shall assess the costs to the property owner
or the plumber. If the plumber is assessed, the plumber must pay the costs
before receiving another permit. If the property owner is assessed, such
assessment may be collected with and in the same manner as general property
taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a and h])
90.18   SHUTTING OFF WATER SUPPLY.
The Superintendent may shut off the supply of water to any customer because of
any violation of the regulations contained in these Water Service System
chapters that is not being contested in good faith. The supply shall not be
turned on again until all violations have been corrected and the Superintendent
has ordered the water to be turned on.
90.19   OPERATION OF CURB VALVE AND HYDRANTS.
It is unlawful for any person except the Superintendent to turn water on at the
curb valve, and no person, unless specifically authorized by the City, shall
open or attempt to draw water from any fire hydrant for any purpose whatsoever.
90.20   REGULATION OF WELLS WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
No wells may be constructed or drilled within the City limits without a permit.
Permit applications shall be obtained from and presented to the Superintendent,
who shall present all applications to the Council for consideration and grant
or denial. The Superintendent shall make recommendations to the Council
regarding the grant or denial of any application, but the final decision shall
rest with the Council. In considering the grant or denial of any application
for construction or drilling of a well within City limits, the Council shall
consider whether the property is furnished with pure and wholesome water,
whether it is safe to construct or drill a well on the premises, and any other
considerations which the Council deems appropriate.
90.21   BACKFLOW PREVENTION.
The Superintendent shall be responsible for the protection of the public
potable water distribution system from contamination or pollution due to the
backflow or back-siphonage of contaminants or pollutants through the water
service connection. If, in the judgment of the Superintendent, an approved
backflow device is required (at the customer’s water service connection, or
within the customer’s private water system) for the safety of the water system,
the Superintendent shall give notice in writing to said customer to install
such an approved backflow prevention assembly at a specific location on said
customer’s premises. The customer shall immediately install such approved
assembly at the customer’s own expense, and failure, refusal, or inability on
the part of the customer to install, have tested, and maintain said assembly
shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to the premises until
such requirements have been satisfactorily met.
CHAPTER 91
WATER METERS
 
91.01 Purpose                           91.06 Meter Repairs
91.02 Water Use Metered                 91.07 Right of Entry
91.03 Fire Sprinkler Systems; Exception 91.08 Meter Accuracy and Testing
91.04 Location of Meters                91.09 Garden Meters
91.05 Meter Setting                      
 
91.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to encourage the conservation of water and
facilitate the equitable distribution of charges for water service among
customers.
91.02   WATER USE METERED.
All water furnished customers shall be measured through meters furnished,
installed, owned, and maintained by the City.
91.03   FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS; EXCEPTION.
Fire sprinkler systems may be connected to water mains by direct connection
without meters under the direct supervision of the Superintendent. No other
open, unmetered connection shall be incorporated in the system, and there shall
be no valves except a main control valve at the entrance to the building which
must be sealed open.
91.04   LOCATION OF METERS.
All meters shall be so located that they are easily accessible to meter readers
and repairmen and protected from freezing.
91.05   METER SETTING.
The property owner shall provide all necessary piping and fittings for proper
setting of the meter including a valve on the discharge side of the meter.
Meter pits may be used only upon approval of the Superintendent and shall be of
a design and construction approved by the Superintendent.
91.06   METER REPAIRS.
Whenever a water meter owned by the City is found to be out of order the
Superintendent shall have it repaired. If it is found that damage to the meter
has occurred due to the carelessness or negligence of the customer or property
owner, or the meter is not owned by the City, then the property owner shall be
liable for the cost of repairs.
91.07   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Superintendent shall be permitted to enter the premises of any customer at
any reasonable time to read, remove, or change a meter.
91.08   METER ACCURACY AND TESTING.
If the City feels that a meter is not registering accurately, the
Superintendent may change out the meter at no expense to the customer. If the
customer requests that a meter be tested for accuracy, the Superintendent will
replace the meter and have it independently tested. If the test results show
that the meter is within acceptable parameters (<= five percent), the customer
shall be responsible for the cost of the test. If the meter tests outside the
acceptable parameter, the City shall be responsible for the cost of the test.
91.09   GARDEN METERS.
Customers may have water used for gardening purposes metered through a separate
meter installed and maintained by the City. The customer must have all piping
and fittings for proper setting of the garden meter in place prior to
installation by the City. The customer shall pay a $25.00 fee for each garden
meter installed. Water usage measured through a garden meter shall be exempt
from sewer service charges.
CHAPTER 92
WATER RATES
 
92.01 Service Charges           92.08 Lien Notice
92.02 Rates For Service         92.09 Customer Deposits
92.03 Rates Outside the City    92.10 Temporary Vacancy
92.04 Billing for Water Service 92.11 Returned Check Charge
92.05 Service Discontinued      92.12 Free Service
92.06 Lien for Nonpayment       92.13 Rental Property Accounts
92.07 Lien Exemption             
 
92.01   SERVICE CHARGES.
Each customer shall pay for water service provided by the City based upon use
of water as determined by meters provided for in
Chapter 91. Each location, building, premises, or connection shall be
considered a separate and distinct customer whether owned or controlled by the
same person or not.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.02   RATES FOR SERVICE.
Water service shall be furnished at the following monthly rates within the
City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Rates for Service. Water service shall be furnished at the following
monthly rates within Rockwell City and Twin Lakes:
 
Effective April 1, 2024
Gallons Used Per Month                         Rate
First 1,000 gallons or lesser amount per month $17.25 (minimum bill)
All over 1,000 gallons per month               $8.50 per 1,000 gallons
 
2.   Rates for Service. Water service shall be furnished at the following
monthly rates for Highway 4 Waterline and 4/20 Development:
 
Effective April 1, 2024
Gallons Used Per Month                         Rate
First 1,000 gallons or lesser amount per month $20.75 (minimum bill)
All over 1,000 gallons per month               $10.75 per 1,000 gallons
 
92.03   RATES OUTSIDE THE CITY.
Water service shall be provided to any customer located outside the corporate
limits of the City which the City has agreed to serve at the same rates
provided in Section
92.02. No such customer, however, will be served unless the customer shall have
signed a service contract agreeing to be bound by the ordinances, rules, and
regulations applying to water service established by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4 and 384.84)
92.04   BILLING FOR WATER SERVICE.
Water service shall be billed as part of a combined service account, payable in
accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Bills Issued. The Clerk shall prepare and issue bills for combined
service accounts on or before the first day of each month.
   2.   Bills Payable. Bills for combined service accounts shall be due and
payable at the office of the Clerk by the fifteenth day of each month.
   3.   Late Payment Penalty. Bills not paid when due shall be considered
delinquent. A one-time late payment penalty of 10 percent of the amount due
shall be added to each delinquent bill.
92.05   SERVICE DISCONTINUED.
Water service to delinquent customers shall be discontinued or disconnected in
accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Notice. The Clerk shall notify each delinquent customer that service
will be discontinued or disconnected if payment of the combined service
account, including late payment charges, is not received by the date specified
in the notice of delinquency. Such notice shall be sent by ordinary mail to the
customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred and shall inform
the customer of the nature of the delinquency and afford the customer the
opportunity for a hearing prior to the discontinuance or disconnection.
   2.   Notice to Landlords. If the customer is a tenant, and if the owner or
landlord of the property or premises has made a written request for notice, the
notice of delinquency shall also be given to the owner or landlord. If the
customer is a tenant and requests a change of name for service under the
account, such request shall be sent to the owner or landlord of the property if
the owner or landlord has made a written request for notice of any change of
name for service under the account to the rental property.
   3.   Hearing. If a hearing is requested by noon of the day preceding the
shut off, the Mayor and Utility Committee shall conduct an informal hearing and
shall make a determination as to whether the discontinuance or disconnection is
justified. The customer has the right to appeal the Mayor and Utility
Committee’s decision to the Council, and if the Council finds that
discontinuance or disconnection is justified, then such discontinuance or
disconnection shall be made, unless payment has been received.
   4.   Fees. A fee of $30.00 shall be charged before service is restored to a
delinquent customer. No fee shall be charged for the usual or customary trips
in the regular changes in occupancies of property.
   5.   Curb Valve. If the City finds, while in the disconnection process, that
the curb valve is not operational, the customer or property owner shall be
notified of their responsibility to maintain the service line, including the
curb valve, and given a reasonable period of time to correct the deficiency
(seven days, unless ground is frozen, then 14 days). If the customer or
property owner fails to make the repairs in the time allotted in the notice,
the City shall make the repairs in accordance with Section
90.13 of this Code of Ordinances.
92.06   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
The owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof shall be
jointly and severally liable for water service charges to the premises. Water
service charges remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon
the property or premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the
County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.07   LIEN EXEMPTION.  
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Water Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall not apply to
charges for water service to a residential or commercial rental property where
water service is separately metered and the rates or charges for the water
service are paid directly to the City by the tenant, if the landlord gives
written notice to the City that the property is residential or commercial
rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or charges. The
City may require a deposit not exceeding the usual cost of 90 days of such
services to be paid to the City. When the tenant moves from the rental
property, the City shall refund the deposit if all service charges are paid in
full. The lien exemption does not apply to delinquent charges for repairs
related to any of the services.
   2.   Other Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall also not apply
to the charges for any of the services of sewer systems, stormwater drainage
systems, sewage treatment, solid waste collection, and solid waste disposal for
a residential rental property where the charge is paid directly to the City by
the tenant, if the landlord gives written notice to the City that the property
is residential rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or
charges for such service. The City may require a deposit not exceeding the
usual cost of 90 days of such services to be paid to the City. When the tenant
moves from the rental property, the City shall refund the deposit if all
service charges are paid in full. The lien exemption does not apply to
delinquent charges for repairs related to any of the services.
   3.   Written Notice. The landlord’s written notice shall contain the name of
the tenant responsible for charges, the address of the residential or
commercial rental property that the tenant is to occupy, and the date that the
occupancy begins. Upon receipt, the City shall acknowledge the notice and
deposit. A change in tenant for a residential rental property shall require a
new written notice to be given to the City within 30 business days of the
change in tenant. A change in tenant for a commercial rental property shall
require a new written notice to be given to the City within 10 business days of
the change in tenant. A change in the ownership of the residential rental
property shall require written notice of such change to be given to the City
within 30 business days of the completion of the change of ownership. A change
in the ownership of the commercial rental property shall require written notice
of such change to be given to the City within 10 business days of the
completion of the change of ownership.
   4.   Mobile Homes, Modular Homes, and Manufactured Homes. A lien for
nonpayment of utility services described in Subsections 1 and 2 of this section
shall not be placed upon a premises that is a mobile home, modular home, or
manufactured home if the mobile home, modular home, or manufactured home is
owned by a tenant of and located in a mobile home park or manufactured home
community and the mobile home park or manufactured home community owner or
manager is the account holder, unless the lease agreement specifies that the
tenant is responsible for payment of a portion of the rates or charges billed
to the account holder.
92.08   LIEN NOTICE.
A lien for delinquent water service charges shall not be certified to the
County Treasurer unless prior written notice of intent to certify a lien is
given to the customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred. If
the customer is a tenant and if the owner or landlord of the property or
premises has made a written request for notice, the notice shall also be given
to the owner or landlord. The notice shall be sent to the appropriate persons
by ordinary mail not less than 30 days prior to certification of the lien to
the County Treasurer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.09   CUSTOMER DEPOSITS.
There shall be required from every customer or prospective customer who is not
the owner of the premises served a $125.00 deposit intended to guarantee the
payment of bills for service. A customer who pays their account in full and by
the due date for the first 12 consecutive billing cycles may request to have
the deposit partially refunded so that $75.00 is held by the City. In the
alternative, a $75.00 deposit will be required from those customers who
present, prior to service connection, a Letter of Credit (verifiable within
five days) from said customer’s current municipal utility provider,
demonstrating a good and current payment history of at least six months.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.10   TEMPORARY VACANCY.
A property owner may request water service be temporarily discontinued and shut
off at the curb valve when the property is expected to be vacant for an
extended period of time. There shall be a $20.00 fee collected for shutting the
water off at the curb valve and a $20.00 fee for restoring service. During a
period when service is temporarily discontinued as provided herein there shall
be no minimum service charge. The City will not drainpipes or pull meters for
temporary vacancies.
92.11   RETURNED CHECK CHARGE.
A $30.00 service charge will be charged on all checks returned by financial
institutions.
92.12   FREE SERVICE.
Free water shall be supplied only for the City fountains, street cleaning,
fires, and cleaning City sewers and to the City Fair Association, and for park
and swimming pool purposes, etc. The furnishing of free water to any
institution or for any purpose, however, is not a vested right or privilege,
but is to be considered a limited right or privilege, and water shall not be
wasted or used extravagantly for any purpose. The Council may, at any time, by
simple vote or resolution restrict, limit, or entirely prohibit the free use of
water to any institution or for any purpose, when the Council is satisfied that
water is being wasted or used without regard to the public welfare. The
furnishing of free water is always under the control of the Council, and may be
discontinued whenever, in the judgment of the Council, the public interest
requires such limitation or prohibition, on account of scarcity of water or any
emergency requiring the conservation of City water.
92.13   RENTAL PROPERTY ACCOUNTS.
When a rental account closes and the final billing is prepared, City Hall must
be notified in writing as to whether to leave the City utilities on in the
owner’s name or to disconnect service. The property owner must notify the City
in writing after each change of account or the owner may sign an annual notice
in advance for the current calendar year. If the property owner fails to
provide such notice, the utilities will be shut off following each rental
account closing.
CHAPTER 93
WELL PROTECTION
 
93.01 Purpose                               93.03 Separation Distances Table
93.02 Establishment of Separation Distances  
 
93.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish separation distances from wells
from all structures and uses, to protect the public, and to preserve the health
and welfare of the community by protecting water purity.
93.02   ESTABLISHMENT OF SEPARATION DISTANCES.
The distances for separating uses and construction around all wells within the
City, including old wells as well as new wells, have been established by State
requirements relative to possible pollutants and their distances from wells,
and the Council has found that the said State requirements shall be adopted as
the minimum acceptable requirements for separation distances from wells, and no
construction or use shall be allowed within said minimum distances to City
wells as set forth herein.
93.03   SEPARATION DISTANCES TABLE.
No building or use shall be allowed within the separation distances from City
wells as set out in the following table.
TABLE A:SEPARATION DISTANCES
SOURCE OF CONTAMINATION REQUIRED MINIMUM LATERAL DISTANCE FROM WELL AS
                        HORIZONTAL ON THE GROUND SURFACE, IN FEET
                        Deep Well1 Shallow Well1
TABLE A:SEPARATION DISTANCES
SOURCE OF CONTAMINATION   REQUIRED MINIMUM LATERAL DISTANCE FROM WELL AS
                          HORIZONTAL ON THE GROUND SURFACE, IN FEET
                          Deep Well1                 Shallow Well1
WASTEWATER STRUCTURES:
Point of Discharge to Ground Surface
Sanitary and industrial   400                        400
discharges
Water treatment plant     50                         50
wastes
Well house floor drains   5                          5
Sewers and Drains2
                          0 25 feet:prohibited       0 25 feet:prohibited
Sanitary and storm        25 75 feet if water main   25 75 feet if water main
sewers, drains            pipe                       pipe
                          75 200 feet if sanitary    75 200 feet if sanitary
                          sewer pipe                 sewer main pipe
                          0 75 feet:prohibited       0 75 feet:prohibited
                          75 400 feet if water main  75 400 feet if water main
Sewer force mains         pipe                       pipe
                          400 1,000 feet if sanitary 400 1,000 feet if sanitary
                          sewer pipe                 sewer main pipe
Water plant treatment     0 5 feet:prohibited        0 5 feet:prohibited
process wastes that are   5 50 feet if sanitary      5 50 feet if sanitary
treated onsite            sewer pipe                 sewer main pipe
                          0 25 feet:prohibited       0 25 feet:prohibited
Water plant wastes to     25 75 feet if water main   25 75 feet if water main
sanitary sewer            pipe                       pipe
                          75 200 feet if sanitary    75 200 feet if sanitary
                          sewer pipe                 sewer main pipe
                          0 25 feet:prohibited       0 25 feet:prohibited
Well house floor drains   25 75 feet if water main   25 75 feet if water main
to sewers                 pipe                       pipe
                          75 200 feet if sanitary    75 200 feet if sanitary
                          sewer pipe                 sewer main pipe
Well house floor drains   0 5 feet:prohibited        0 5 feet:prohibited
to surface                5 50 feet if sanitary      5 50 feet if sanitary
                          sewer pipe                 sewer main pipe
Land Disposal of Treated Wastes
Irrigation of wastewater  200                        400
Land application of solid 200                        400
wastes3
Other
Cesspools and earth pit   200                        400
privies
Concrete vaults and       100                        200
septic tanks
Lagoons                   400                        1,000
Mechanical wastewater     200                        400
treatment plants
Soil absorption fields    200                        400
                         Deep Well1                 Shallow Well1
CHEMICALS:
Chemical application to   100                        200
ground surface
Chemical & mineral        100                        200
storage above ground
Chemical & mineral
storage on or under       200                        400
ground
Transmission pipelines
(such as fertilizer,      200                        400
liquid petroleum, or
anhydrous ammonia)
ANIMALS:
Animal pasturage          50                         50
Animal enclosure          200                        400
Earthen silage storage    100                        200
trench or pit
Animal Wastes
Land application of       200                        400
liquid or slurry
Land application of       200                        400
solids
Solids stockpile          200                        400
Storage basin or lagoon   400                        1,000
Storage tank              200                        400
MISCELLANEOUS:
Basements, pits, sumps    10                         10
Cemeteries                200                        200
Cisterns                  50                         100
Flowing streams or other  50                         50
surface water bodies
GHEX loop boreholes       200                        200
Railroads                 100                        200
Private wells             200                        400
Solid waste landfills and 1,000                      1,000
disposal sites4
1   Deep and shallow wells, as defined in IAC 567-40.2(455B):A deep well is a
well located and constructed in such a manner that there is a continuous layer
of low permeability soil or rock at least five feet thick located at least 25
feet below the normal ground surface and above the aquifer from which water is
to be drawn. A shallow well is a well located and constructed in such a manner
that there is not a continuous layer of low permeability soil or rock (or
equivalent retarding mechanism acceptable to the department) at least five feet
thick, the top of which is located at least 25 feet below the normal ground
surface and above the aquifer from which water is to be drawn.
2   The separation distances are dependent upon two factors: the type of piping
that is in the existing sewer or drain, as noted in the table, and that the
piping was properly installed in accordance with the standards.
3   Solid wastes are those derived from the treatment of water or wastewater.
Certain types of solid wastes from water treatment processes may be land-
applied within the separation distance on an individual, case-by-case basis.
4   Solid waste means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar discarded
solid or semisolid materials, including but not limited to such materials
resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic activities.
CHAPTER 95
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
 
95.01 Purpose                   95.06 Service Outside the City
95.02 Definitions               95.07 Right of Entry
95.03 Superintendent            95.08 Use of Easements
95.04 Prohibited Acts           95.09 Special Penalties
95.05 Sewer Connection Required 95.10 Abandoned Sewer Lines
 
95.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters of this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Sanitary
Sewers is to establish rules and regulations governing the treatment and
disposal of sanitary sewage within the City in order to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
95.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise,
the following terms are defined:
   1.   “B.O.D.” (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand) means the quantity of
oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20?, expressed in milligrams per liter or
parts per million.
   2.   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the
building sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
   3.   “Building sewer” means that part of the horizontal piping from the
building wall to its connection with the main sewer or the primary treatment
portion of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system conveying the
drainage of one building site.
   4.   “Combined sewer” means a sewer receiving both surface run-off and
sewage.
   5.   “Customer” means any person responsible for the production of domestic,
commercial, or industrial waste that is directly or indirectly discharged into
the public sewer system.
   6.   “Garbage” means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial
preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage,
and sale of produce.
   7.   “Industrial wastes” means the liquid wastes from industrial
manufacturing processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   8.   “Inspector” means the person duly authorized by the Council to inspect
and approve the installation of building sewers and their connections to the
public sewer system; and to inspect such sewage as may be discharged therefrom.
   9.   “Natural outlet” means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch,
lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   10.   “On-site wastewater treatment and disposal system” means all equipment
and devices necessary for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment,
and disposal of wastewater from four or fewer dwelling units or other
facilities serving the equivalent of 15 persons (1,500 gpd) or less.
   11.   “pH” means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen
ions in grams per liter of solution.
   12.   “Public sewer” means a sewer in which all owners of abutting
properties have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   13.   “Sanitary sewage” means sewage discharging from the sanitary
conveniences of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office
buildings, factories, or institutions, and free from storm, surface water, and
industrial waste.
   14.   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer that carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   15.   “Sewage” means a combination of the water-carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments,
together with such ground, surface, and stormwaters as may be present.
   16.   “Sewage treatment plant” means any arrangement of devices and
structures used for treating sewage.
   17.   “Sewage works” or “sewage system” means all facilities for collecting,
pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage.
   18.   “Sewer” means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   19.   “Sewer service charges” means any and all charges, rates or fees
levied against and payable by customers, as consideration for the servicing of
said customers by said sewer system.
   20.   “Slug” means any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste that
in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for
any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average
24-hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   21.   “Storm drain” or “storm sewer” means a sewer that carries storm and
surface waters and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   22.   “Superintendent” means the Superintendent of sewage works or of water
pollution control of the City or any authorized deputy, agent, or
representative.
   23.   “Suspended solids” means solids that either float on the surface of,
or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and that are removable
by laboratory filtering.
   24.   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
95.03   SUPERINTENDENT.
The Superintendent shall exercise the following powers and duties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Operation and Maintenance. Operate and maintain the City sewage system.
   2.   Inspection and Tests. Conduct necessary inspections and tests to assure
compliance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
   3.   Records. Maintain a complete and accurate record of all sewers, sewage
connections, and manholes constructed showing the location and grades thereof.
95.04   PROHIBITED ACTS.
No person shall do, or allow, any of the following:
   1.   Damage Sewer System. Maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment that is a part of the sewer system.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
   2.   Surface Run-Off or Groundwater. Connect a roof downspout, sump pump,
exterior foundation drain, areaway drain, or other source of surface run-off or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   3.   Manholes. Open or enter any manhole of the sewer system, except by
authority of the Superintendent.
   4.   Objectionable Wastes. Place or deposit in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the City, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other
objectionable waste.
   5.   Septic Tanks. Construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage
except as provided in these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
   6.   Untreated Discharge. Discharge to any natural outlet    within the
City, or in any area under its jurisdiction, any sanitary sewage, industrial
wastes, or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
95.05   SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
The owners of any houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City and abutting
on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in
the future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer, are hereby required
to install, at such owner’s expense, suitable toilet facilities therein and a
building sewer connecting such facilities directly with the proper public
sewer, and to maintain the same all in accordance with the provisions of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters, such compliance to be completed within 30 days after
date of official notice from the City to do so provided that said public sewer
is located within 200 feet of the property line of such owner and is of such
design as to receive and convey by gravity such sewage as may be conveyed to
it. Billing for sanitary sewer service will begin the date of official notice
to connect to the public sewer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
95.06   SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
The owners of property outside the corporate limits of the City so situated
that it may be served by the City sewer system may apply to the Council for
permission to connect to the public sewer upon the terms and conditions
stipulated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 and 3])
95.07   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
The Superintendent or representatives shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper,
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
95.08   USE OF EASEMENTS.
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
95.09   SPECIAL PENALTIES.
The following special penalty provisions shall apply to violations of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters:
   1.   Notice of Violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of
these chapters except Subsections 1, 3, and 4 of Section
95.04, shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   2.   Continuing Violations. Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided for in Subsection 1 hereof shall be in violation
of this Code of Ordinances. Each day in which any such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   3.   Liability Imposed. Any person violating any of the provisions of these
chapters shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the City by reason of such violation.
95.10   ABANDONED SEWER LINES.  
When an existing sanitary sewer service is abandoned or a service is renewed
with a new connection in the main, all abandoned connections with the mains
shall be capped off and made absolutely watertight.
CHAPTER 96
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
 
96.01 Permit                  96.06 Interceptors Required
96.02 Permit Fee              96.07 Sewer Tap
96.03 Plumber Required        96.08 Inspection Required
96.04 Excavations             96.09 Property Owner’s Responsibility
96.05 Connection Requirements 96.10 Abatement of Violations
 
96.01   PERMIT.  
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening into,
use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the City. The application for the permit shall
set forth the following information:
   1.   The location and description of the property to be connected with the
sewer system.
   2.   The purpose for which the sewer is to be used.
   3.   Plans, specifications, or other information considered pertinent.
The permit shall require the owner to complete construction and connection of
the building sewer to the public sewer within 30 days after the issuance of the
permit, except that when a property owner makes sufficient showing that due to
conditions beyond the owner’s control or peculiar hardship, such time period is
inequitable or unfair, an extension of time within which to comply with the
provisions herein may be granted. Any sewer connection permit may be revoked at
any time for a violation of these chapters.
96.02   PERMIT FEE.
The person who makes the application shall pay a fee in the amount of $50.00 to
the Clerk to cover the cost of issuing the permit and supervising, regulating,
and inspecting the work.
96.03   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installations of building sewers and connections to the public sewer shall
be made by a State-licensed plumber.
96.04   EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required for the installation of a
building sewer shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the
State Plumbing Code and the provisions of Chapter 135 of this Code of
Ordinances.
96.05   CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
Any connection with a public sanitary sewer must be made under the direct
supervision of the Superintendent and in accordance with the following:
   1.   Old Building Sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test conducted by
the owner and observed by the Superintendent, to meet all requirements of this
chapter.
   2.   Separate Building Sewers. A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every occupied building; except where one building stands
at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or
can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court,
yard, or driveway. In such cases the building sewer from the front building may
be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building
sewer.
   3.   Installation. The installation and connection of the building sewer to
the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the State Plumbing Code
and applicable rules and regulations of the City. All such connections shall be
made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
   4.   Water Lines. When possible, building sewers should be laid at least 10
feet horizontally from a water service. The horizontal separation may be less,
provided the water service line is located at one side and at least 12 inches
above the top of the building sewer.
   5.   Size. Building sewers shall be sized for the peak expected sewage flow
from the building with a minimum building sewer size of four inches.
   6.   Alignment and Grade. All building sewers shall be laid to a straight
line to meet the following:
      A.   Recommended grade at one-fourth inch per foot.
      B.   Minimum grade of one-eighth inch per foot.
      C.   Minimum velocity of two feet per second with the sewer half full.
      D.   Any deviation in alignment or grade shall be made only with the
written approval of the Superintendent and shall be made only with approved
fittings.
   7.   Depth. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. The depth of cover above the
sewer shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost.
   8.   Sewage Lifts. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low
to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such
drain shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the
building sewer.
   9.   Pipe Specifications. Building sewer pipe shall be free from flaws,
splits, or breaks. Materials shall be as specified in the State Plumbing Code
except that the building sewer pipe, from the property line to the public
sewer, shall comply with the current edition of one of the following:
      A.   Clay sewer pipe – A.S.T.M. C-700 (extra strength).
      B.   Extra heavy cast iron soil pipe – A.S.T.M. A-74.
      C.   Ductile iron water pipe – A.W.W.A. C-151.
      D.   P.V.C. – SDR26 – A.S.T.M. D-3034.
   10.   Bearing Walls. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within
three feet of any bearing wall that might thereby be weakened.
   11.   Jointing. Fittings, type of joint and jointing material shall be
compatible with the type of pipe used, subject to the approval of the
Superintendent. Solvent-welded joints are not permitted.
   12.   Unstable Soil. No sewer connection shall be laid so that it is exposed
when crossing any watercourse. Where an old watercourse must of necessity be
crossed or where there is any danger of undermining or settlement, cast iron
soil pipe or vitrified clay sewer pipe thoroughly encased in concrete shall be
required for such crossings. Such encasement shall extend at least six inches
on all sides of the pipe. The cast iron pipe or encased clay pipe shall rest on
firm, solid material at either end.
   13.   Preparation of Basement or Crawl Space. No connection for any
residence, business or other structure with any sanitary sewer shall be made
unless the basement floor is poured, or in the case of a building with a slab
or crawl space, unless the ground floor is installed with the area adjacent to
the foundation of such building cleared of debris and backfilled. The backfill
shall be well compacted and graded so that the drainage is away from the
foundation. Prior to the time the basement floor is poured, or the first floor
is installed in buildings without basements, the sewer shall be plugged and the
plug shall be sealed by the Superintendent. Any accumulation of water in any
excavation or basement during construction and prior to connection to the
sanitary sewer shall be removed by means other than draining into the sanitary
sewer.
96.06   INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
Grease, oil, sludge, and sand interceptors shall be provided by gas and service
stations, convenience stores, car washes, garages, and other facilities when,
in the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of such wastes that contain grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable waste, sand, or other harmful ingredients. Such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. When required,
such interceptors shall be installed in accordance with the following:
   1.   Design and Location. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity
as specified in the State Plumbing Code, to be approved by the Superintendent,
and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   2.   Construction Standards. The interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious material capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped
with easily removable covers that shall be gastight and watertight.
   3.   Maintenance. All such interceptors shall be maintained by the owner at
the owner’s expense and shall be kept in continuously efficient operations at
all times.
96.07   SEWER TAP.
Connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the “Y”
branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If no properly
located “Y” branch is available, a saddle “Y” shall be installed at the
location specified by the Superintendent. The public sewer shall be tapped with
a tapping machine and a saddle appropriate to the type of public sewer shall be
glued or attached with a gasket and stainless steel clamps to the sewer. At no
time shall a building sewer be constructed so as to enter a manhole unless
special written permission is received from the Superintendent and in
accordance with the Superintendent’s direction if such connection is approved.
96.08   INSPECTION REQUIRED.
All connections with the sanitary sewer system before being covered shall be
inspected and approved, in writing, by the Superintendent. As soon as all pipe
work from the public sewer to inside the building has been completed, and
before any backfilling is done, the Superintendent shall be notified and the
Superintendent shall inspect and test the work as to workmanship and material;
no sewer pipe laid underground shall be covered or trenches filled until after
the sewer has been so inspected and approved. If the Superintendent refuses to
approve the work, the plumber or owner must proceed immediately to correct the
work.
96.09   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the building sewer, from the main to the building served, shall
be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building sewer.
96.10   ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
Construction or maintenance of building sewer lines, whether located upon the
private property of any owner or in the public right-of-way, which construction
or maintenance is in violation of any of the requirements of this chapter,
shall be corrected, at the owner’s expense, within 30 days after date of
official notice from the Council of such violation. If not made within such
time, the Council shall, in addition to the other penalties herein provided,
have the right to finish and correct the work and assess the cost thereof to
the property owner. Such assessment shall be collected with and in the same
manner as general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3])
CHAPTER 97
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
 
97.01 Stormwater               97.05 Restricted Discharges; Powers of
                               Superintendent
97.02 Surface Waters Exception 97.06 Special Facilities
97.03 Prohibited Discharges    97.07 Control Manholes
97.04 Restricted Discharges    97.08 Testing of Wastes
 
97.01   STORMWATER.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof run-off, sub-surface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers
that are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a
natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the Superintendent,
to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
97.02   SURFACE WATERS EXCEPTION.
Special permits for discharging surface waters to a public sanitary sewer may
be issued by the Council upon recommendation of the Superintendent where such
discharge is deemed necessary or advisable for purposes of flushing, but any
permit so issued shall be subject to revocation at any time when deemed to be
in the best interests of the sewer system.
97.03   PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   1.   Flammable or Explosive Material. Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel
oil, or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
   2.   Toxic or Poisonous Materials. Any waters or wastes containing toxic or
poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or
create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant,
including but not limited to cyanides (CN) in excess of two milligrams per
liter as CN in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
   3.   Corrosive Wastes. Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
   4.   Solid or Viscous Substances. Solid or viscous substances in quantities
or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not
limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   5.   Excessive B.O.D., Solids or Flow.
      A.   Any waters or wastes:
         (1)   Having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 300
parts per million by weight; or
         (2)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids; or
         (3)   Having an average daily flow greater than two percent of the
average sewage flow of the City, shall be subject to the review of the
Superintendent.
      B.   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at the owner’s expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to:
         (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight; or
         (2)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
or
         (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes.
      C.   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating
to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the
approval of the Superintendent, and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
97.04   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances restricted are:
   1.   High Temperature. Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than
150° (65°).
   2.   Fat, Oil, Grease. Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or 600
milligrams per liter of dispersed or other soluble matter.
   3.   Viscous Substances. Water or wastes containing substances that may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150° (0° to 65°).
4.   Garbage. Any garbage that has not been properly shredded, that is, to such
a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions
normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half
inch in any dimension.
5.   Acids. Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solution, whether neutralized or not.
6.   Toxic or Objectionable Wastes. Any waters or wastes containing iron,
chromium, copper, zinc, and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or
wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such
material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials.
7.   Odor or Taste. Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or
odor producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits that may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of State, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
8.   Radioactive Wastes. Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life
or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable State or federal regulations.
9.   Excess Alkalinity. Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
10.   Unusual Wastes. Materials that exert or cause:
A.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not limited
to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved solids
(such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
B.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
C.   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in such
quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works.
D.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting “slugs” as
defined herein.
11.   Noxious or Malodorous Gases. Any noxious or malodorous gas or other
substance that, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, is capable
of creating a public nuisance or hazard to life or of preventing entry into
sewers for their maintenance and repair.
12.   Damaging Substances. Any waters, wastes, materials, or substances that
react with water or wastes in the sewer system to release noxious gases,
develop color of undesirable intensity, form suspended solids in objectionable
concentration, or create any other condition deleterious to structures and
treatment processes.
13.   Untreatable Wastes. Waters or wastes containing substances that are not
amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed,
or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment
plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
97.05   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES; POWERS OF SUPERINTENDENT.
If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the
public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in Section 97.04 and which in the judgment of the
Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
   1.   Rejection. Reject the wastes by requiring disconnection from the public
sewage system;
   2.   Pretreatment. Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for
discharge to the public sewers;
   3.   Controls Imposed. Require control over the quantities and rates of
discharge; or
   4.   Special Charges. Require payment to cover the added cost of handling
and treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under
the provisions of
Chapter 99.
97.06   SPECIAL FACILITIES.
If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws. Where preliminary treatment or
flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
the owner’s expense.
97.07   CONTROL MANHOLES.
When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at the owner’s
expense, and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
97.08   TESTING OF WASTES.
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids analyses are obtained
from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined from
periodic grab samples.)
CHAPTER 98
ON-SITE WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
 
98.01 When Prohibited             98.05 Discharge Restrictions
98.02 When Required               98.06 Maintenance of System
98.03 Compliance with Regulations 98.07 Systems Abandoned
98.04 Permit Required             98.08 Disposal of Septage
 
98.01   WHEN PROHIBITED.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.02   WHEN REQUIRED.
When a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of Section
95.05, every building wherein persons reside, congregate, or are employed shall
be provided with an approved on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system
complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
98.03   COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system shall comply with the specifications and
requirements set forth by the Iowa Administrative Code 567, Chapter 69, and
with such additional requirements as are prescribed by the regulations of the
County Board of Health.
(567 IAC 69.1[3 and 4])
98.04   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall install or alter an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system without first obtaining a permit from the County Board of Health.
98.05   DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.
It is unlawful to discharge any wastewater from an on-site wastewater treatment
and disposal system (except under an NPDES permit) to any ditch, stream, pond,
lake, natural or artificial waterway, drain tile or to the surface of the
ground.
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
98.06   MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
The owner of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system shall operate
and maintain the system in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to
the City.
98.07   SYSTEMS ABANDONED.
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by an on-
site wastewater treatment and disposal system, as provided in Section
95.05, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
these Sanitary Sewer chapters and the on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.08   DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE.
No person shall dispose of septage from an on-site treatment system at any
location except an approved disposal site.
CHAPTER 99
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
 
99.01 Sewer Service Charges Required 99.06 Lien for Nonpayment
99.02 Rate                           99.07 Annual Notification
99.03 Special Rates                  99.08 Special Agreements Permitted
99.04 Private Water Systems          99.09 Inconsistent Agreements
99.05 Payment of Bills               99.10 Related Revenue
 
 
99.01   SEWER SERVICE CHARGES REQUIRED.
Every customer shall pay to the City sewer service fees as hereinafter
provided.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.02   RATE.
Each customer shall pay sewer service charges for the use of and for the
service supplied by the municipal sanitary sewer system based upon the amount
of water consumed as follows:
   1.   Normal Service Charge:
 
Effective April 1, 2024
First 1,000 gallons or lesser amount per month $24.50 (minimum bill)
All over 1,000 gallons per month               $17.50 per 1,000 gallons
 
All water used for gardening purposes that is measured through a garden meter
installed in accordance with Section 91.09 of this Code of Ordinances shall be
exempt from the sewer service charges contained herein.
   2.   Extra Strength Surcharge. For those customers who contribute wastewater
that has a BOD concentration of more than 300 parts per million, by weight,
and/or a total suspended solids concentration of more than 350 parts per
million, by weight, an extra surcharge shall be collected in addition to the
normal service charge. The extra strength surcharge for operation, maintenance,
replacement, and debt retirement is:
      A.   $0.42 per pound of BOD
      B.   $0.35 per pound of TSS
   3.   Toxic Pollutant Charge. Any customer who discharges any toxic
pollutants which cause an increase in the cost of managing the effluent or the
sludge from the sewage treatment plant or any customer who discharges any
substance which singly or by interaction with other substances causes
identifiable increases in the cost of operation, maintenance, or replacement of
the sewage treatment plant shall pay for such additional cost. The charge to
each customer shall cover the increased operational and maintenance costs
incurred as the result of the discharges of toxic or restricted pollutants and
shall be as determined by the Council.
99.03   SPECIAL RATES.
Where, in the judgment of the Superintendent and the Council, special
conditions exist to the extent that the application of the sewer charges
provided in Section
99.02 would be inequitable or unfair to either the City or the customer, a
special rate shall be proposed by the Superintendent and submitted to the
Council for approval by resolution.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.04   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS.
Customers whose premises are served by a private water system shall pay sewer
charges based upon the water used as determined by the City either by an
estimate agreed to by the customer or by metering the water system at the
customer’s expense. Any negotiated or agreed-upon sales or charges shall be
subject to approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.05   PAYMENT OF BILLS.
All sewer service charges are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section
92.04 of this Code of Ordinances. Sewer service may be discontinued or
disconnected in accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
99.06   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.07 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof shall be jointly and severally liable for sewer
service charges to the premises. Sewer service charges remaining unpaid and
delinquent shall constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and
shall be certified by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the
same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.07   ANNUAL NOTIFICATION.
The City shall notify each customer at least annually of the sewer service
charges and the notification shall include that portion of the charges that are
attributed to wastewater treatment services.
99.08   SPECIAL AGREEMENTS PERMITTED.
No statement in these chapters shall be construed as preventing a special
agreement, arrangement, or contract between the Council, and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted subject to special conditions, rate, and cost as established by the
Council.
99.09   INCONSISTENT AGREEMENTS.
The provisions of this chapter shall take precedence over the terms and
conditions of any separate agreements or contracts between the City and
customers which are inconsistent with the requirements of the Clean Water Act
Section 204(b)(1)A and corresponding regulations. The provisions of this
section shall not prohibit the treatment agreements and special rates set forth
in Section
99.08 which agreements shall set forth the extra strength surcharge rates
provided those rates are consistent with the rates established in
99.02.
99.10   RELATED REVENUE.
In determining the annual operation and maintenance costs for the municipal
sanitary sewer system, all project-related revenues will be used to reduce the
total operation and maintenance costs used for determining sewer service
charges. All changes in sewer service charges from the project related revenues
shall be proportionally reduced.
CHAPTER 105
SOLID WASTE CONTROL
 
105.01 Purpose                    105.06 Separation of Yard Waste Required
105.02 Definitions                105.07 Littering Prohibited
105.03 Sanitary Disposal Required 105.08 Toxic and Hazardous Waste
105.04 Health and Fire Hazard     105.09 Waste Storage Containers
105.05 Open Burning Restricted    105.10 Prohibited Practices
 
 
105.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters in this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Solid
Waste Control and Collection is to provide for the sanitary storage,
collection, and disposal of solid waste and, thereby, to protect the citizens
of the City from such hazards to their health, safety, and welfare as may
result from the uncontrolled disposal of solid waste.
105.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Collector” means any person authorized to gather solid waste from
public and private places.
   2.   “Discard” means to place, cause to be placed, throw, deposit, or drop.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[1])
   3.   “Dwelling unit” means any room or group of rooms located within a
structure and forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used or
are intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
   4.   “Garbage” means all solid and semisolid, putrescible animal and
vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing,
serving, and consuming of food or of material intended for use as food, and all
offal, excluding useful industrial by-products, and includes all such
substances from all public and private establishments and from all residences.
(567 IAC 100.2)
   5.   “Landscape waste” means any vegetable or plant waste except garbage.
The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds,
leaves, grass, shrubbery, and yard trimmings.
(567 IAC 20.2)
   6.   “Litter” means any garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, waste materials, or
debris not exceeding 10 pounds in weight or 15 cubic feet in volume. Litter
includes, but is not limited, to empty beverage containers, cigarette butts,
food waste packaging, other food or candy wrappers, handbills, empty cartons,
or boxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[2])
   7.   “Owner” means, in addition to the record titleholder, any person
residing in, renting, leasing, occupying, operating, or transacting business in
any premises, and as between such parties the duties, responsibilities,
liabilities, and obligations hereinafter imposed shall be joint and several.
   8.   “Refuse” means putrescible and non-putrescible waste, including but not
limited to garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator residues, street cleanings,
market and industrial solid waste, and sewage treatment waste in dry or
semisolid form.
(567 IAC 100.2)
   9.   “Residential premises” means a single-family dwelling and any multiple-
family dwelling up to and including four separate dwelling units.
   10.   “Residential waste” means any refuse generated on the premises as a
result of residential activities. The term includes landscape waste grown on
the premises or deposited thereon by the elements, but excludes garbage, tires,
trade wastes, and any locally recyclable goods or plastics.
(567 IAC 20.2)
   11.   “Rubbish” means non-putrescible solid waste consisting of combustible
and non-combustible waste, such as ashes, paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, or litter of any kind.
(567 IAC 100.2)
   12.   “Sanitary disposal” means a method of treating solid waste so that it
does not produce a hazard to the public health or safety or create a nuisance.
(567 IAC 100.2)
   13.   “Sanitary disposal project” means all facilities and appurtenances
(including all real and personal property connected with such facilities) that
are acquired, purchased, constructed, reconstructed, equipped, improved,
extended, maintained, or operated to facilitate the final disposition of solid
waste without creating a significant hazard to the public health or safety, and
which are approved by the Director of the State Department of Natural
Resources. “Sanitary disposal project” does not include a pyrolysis or
gasification facility as defined in Section 455B.301 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
   14.   “Solid waste” means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar
discarded solid or semisolid materials, including but not limited to such
materials resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic
activities. Solid waste may include vehicles, as defined by Section 321.1 of
the Code of Iowa. Solid waste does not include any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
      A.   Hazardous waste regulated under the Federal Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6921-6934.
      B.   Hazardous waste as defined in Section 455B.411 of the Code of Iowa,
except to the extent that rules allowing for the disposal of specific wastes
have been adopted by the State Environmental Protection Commission.
      C.   Source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined in the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended to January 1, 1979.
      D.   Petroleum contaminated soil that has been remediated to acceptable
State or federal standards.
      E.   Steel slag which is a product resulting from the steel manufacturing
process and is managed as an item of value in a controlled manner and not as a
discarded material.
      F.   Material that is legitimately recycled pursuant to Section 455D.4A
of the Code of Iowa.
      G.   Post-use polymers or recoverable feedstocks that are any of the
following:
         (1)   Processed at a pyrolysis or gasification facility.
         (2)   Held at a pyrolysis or gasification facility prior to processing
to ensure production is not interrupted.
   15.   “Toxic and hazardous waste” means waste materials, including (but not
limited to) poisons, pesticides, herbicides, acids, caustics, pathological
waste, flammable or explosive materials, and similar harmful waste that
requires special handling and that must be disposed of in such a manner as to
conserve the environment and protect the public health and safety.
(567 IAC 100.2)
   16.   “Yard waste” means any debris such as grass clippings, leaves, garden
waste, brush, and trees. Yard waste does not include tree stumps.
105.03   SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
It is the duty of each owner to provide for the sanitary disposal of all refuse
accumulating on the owner’s premises before it becomes a nuisance. Any such
accumulation remaining on any premises for a period of more than 30 days shall
be deemed a nuisance and the City may proceed to abate such nuisances in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 50 or by initiating proper action in
district court.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 657)
105.04   HEALTH AND FIRE HAZARD.
It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any premises, improved
or vacant, or on any public place, such quantities of solid waste that
constitute a health, sanitation, or fire hazard.
105.05   OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED.
No person shall allow, cause, or permit open burning of combustible materials
where the products of combustion are emitted into the open air without passing
through a chimney or stack, except that open burning is permitted in the
following circumstances:
(567 IAC 23.2 and 100.2)
   1.   Disaster Rubbish. The open burning of rubbish, including landscape
waste, for the duration of the community disaster period in cases where an
officially declared emergency condition exists, provided that the burning of
any structures or demolished structures is conducted in accordance with 40 CFR
Section 61.145.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“a”)
   2.   Trees and Tree Trimmings. The open burning of trees and tree trimmings
at a City-operated burning site, provided such burning is conducted in
compliance with the rules established by the State Department of Natural
Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“b”)
   3.   Flare Stacks. The open burning or flaring of waste gases, provided such
open burning or flaring is conducted in compliance with applicable rules of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“c”)
   4.   Landscape Waste. The disposal by open burning of landscape waste
originating on the premises, only from sunrise to sunset during the periods
from April 1 to May 15 and October 1 to November 15 each year. However, the
burning of landscape waste produced in clearing, grubbing, and construction
operations shall be limited to areas located at least one-fourth mile from any
building inhabited by other than the landowner or tenant conducting the open
burning. Rubber tires shall not be used to ignite landscape waste.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“d”)
   5.   Recreational Fires. Open fires for cooking, heating, recreation, and
ceremonies, provided they comply with the limits for emission of visible air
contaminants established by the State Department of Natural Resources. Rubber
tires shall not be burned in a recreational fire.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“e”)
   6.   Training Fires. Fires set for the purpose of conducting bona fide
training of public or industrial employees in firefighting methods, provided
that the training fires are conducted in compliance with rules established by
the State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“g”)
   7.   Pesticide Containers and Seed Corn Bags. The disposal by open burning
of paper or plastic pesticide containers (except those formerly containing
organic forms of beryllium, selenium, mercury, lead, cadmium, or arsenic) and
seed corn bags resulting from farming activities occurring on the premises if
burned in accordance with rules established by the State Department of Natural
Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“h”)
   8.   Agricultural Structures. The open burning of agricultural structures if
in accordance with rules and limitations established by the State Department of
Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“i”)
   9.   Controlled Burning of a Demolished Building. The controlled burning of
a demolished building by the City, subject to approval of the Council, provided
that the controlled burning is conducted in accordance with rules and
limitations established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“j”)
   10.   Variance. Any person wishing to conduct open burning of materials not
permitted herein may make application for a variance to the Director of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[2])
105.06   SEPARATION OF YARD WASTE REQUIRED.
All yard waste shall be separated by the owner or occupant from all other solid
waste accumulated on the premises and shall be composted or burned on the
premises or deposited at the City disposal site.
105.07   LITTERING PROHIBITED.
No person shall discard any litter onto or in any water or land, except that
nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authorized collection
and discarding of such litter in or on areas or receptacles provided for such
purpose. When litter is discarded from a motor vehicle, the driver of the motor
vehicle shall be responsible for the act in any case where doubt exists as to
which occupant of the motor vehicle actually discarded the litter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.363)
105.08   TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS WASTE.
No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for
collection any toxic or hazardous waste. Such materials shall be transported
and disposed of as prescribed by the Director of the State Department of
Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 100.2)
(567 IAC 102.13[2] and 400 IAC 27.14[2])
105.09   WASTE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing, or renting any premises,
dwelling unit, or any place where refuse accumulates shall provide and at all
times maintain in good order and repair portable containers for refuse in
accordance with the following:
   1.   Container Specifications. Waste storage containers shall comply with
the following specifications:
      A.   Residential. Residential waste containers, whether they be reusable,
portable containers, or heavy-duty disposable garbage bags, shall be of
sufficient capacity, leakproof, and waterproof. Disposable containers shall be
securely fastened, and reusable containers shall be fitted with a fly-tight lid
which shall be kept in place except when depositing or removing the contents of
the container. Reusable containers shall also be lightweight and of sturdy
construction and have suitable lifting devices.
      B.   Galvanized metal containers, rubber or fiberglass containers, and
plastic containers that do not become brittle in cold weather may be used.
      C.   Commercial. Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing, or
renting any commercial premises where an excessive amount of refuse accumulates
and where its storage in portable containers as required above is impractical,
shall maintain metal bulk storage containers approved by the City.
   2.   Storage of Containers. Residential solid waste containers shall be
stored upon the residential premises. Commercial solid waste containers shall
be stored upon private property, unless the owner has been granted written
permission from the City to use public property for such purposes. The storage
site shall be well drained and fully accessible to collection equipment, public
health personnel, and fire inspection personnel. All owners of residential and
commercial premises shall be responsible for proper storage of all garbage and
yard waste to prevent materials from being blown or scattered around
neighboring yards and streets.
   3.   Location of Containers for Collection. Containers for the storage of
solid waste awaiting collection shall be placed outdoors at some easily
accessible place by the owner or occupant of the premises served.
   4.   Nonconforming Containers. Solid waste placed in containers that are not
in compliance with the provisions of this section will not be collected.
105.10   PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
It is unlawful for any person to:
   1.   Unlawful Use of Containers. Deposit refuse in any solid waste
containers not owned by such person without the written consent of the owner of
such containers.
   2.   Interfere with Collectors. Interfere in any manner with solid waste
collection equipment or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance
of their duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors be those of the
City, or those of any other authorized waste collection service.
   3.   Incinerators. Burn rubbish or garbage except in incinerators designed
for high temperature operation, in which solid, semisolid, liquid, or gaseous
combustible refuse is ignited and burned efficiently, and from which the solid
residues contain little or no combustible material, as acceptable to the
Environmental Protection Commission.
   4.   Scavenging. Take or collect any solid waste that has been placed out
for collection on any premises, unless such person is an authorized solid waste
collector.
CHAPTER 106
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
 
106.01 Collection Service      106.06 Right of Entry
106.02 Collection Vehicles     106.07 Contract Requirements
106.03 Loading                 106.08 Collection Fees
106.04 Frequency of Collection 106.09 Lien for Nonpayment
106.05 Bulky Rubbish            
 
106.01   COLLECTION SERVICE.
The City shall provide by contract for the collection of solid waste, except
bulky rubbish as provided in Section 106.05, from residential premises only.
The owners or operators of commercial, industrial, or institutional premises
shall provide for the collection of solid waste produced upon such premises.
106.02   COLLECTION VEHICLES.
Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of garbage
and similar putrescible waste or solid waste containing such materials shall be
leak-proof, durable, and of easily cleanable construction. They shall be
cleaned to prevent nuisances, pollution, or insect breeding and shall be
maintained in good repair.
(567 IAC 104.9)
106.03   LOADING.
Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of any solid
waste shall be loaded and moved in such a manner that the contents will not
fall, leak, or spill therefrom, and shall be covered to prevent blowing or loss
of material. Where spillage does occur, the material shall be picked up
immediately by the collector or transporter and returned to the vehicle or
container and the area properly cleaned.
106.04   FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
All solid waste shall be collected from residential premises at least once each
week and from commercial, industrial, and institutional premises as frequently
as may be necessary, but not less than once each week.
106.05   BULKY RUBBISH.
Bulky rubbish that is too large or heavy to be collected in the normal manner
of other solid waste may be collected by the collector upon request in
accordance with procedures established by the Council.
106.06   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
Solid waste collectors are hereby authorized to enter upon private property for
the purpose of collecting solid waste, as required by this chapter; however,
solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling units or other residential
buildings.
106.07   CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.
No person shall engage in the business of collecting, transporting, processing,
or disposing of solid waste from residential premises for the City without
first entering into a contract with the City. This section does not prohibit an
owner from transporting solid waste accumulating upon premises owned, occupied,
or used by such owner, provided such refuse is disposed of properly in an
approved sanitary disposal project. Furthermore, a contract is not required for
the removal, hauling, or disposal of earth and rock material from grading or
excavation activities, provided that all such materials are conveyed in tight
vehicles, trucks, or receptacles so constructed and maintained that none of the
material being transported is spilled upon any public right-of-way.
106.08   COLLECTION FEES.
The collection and disposal of solid waste as provided by this chapter are
declared to be beneficial to the property served or eligible to be served and
there shall be levied and collected fees for the same, in accordance with the
following:
(Goreham vs. Des Moines, 1970, 179 NW 2nd, 449 [Iowa 1970])
   1.   Fees.
      A.   Collection and Disposal Fee. A fee for solid waste collection and
disposal service, used or available, of $15.00 per month for each residential
premises and for each dwelling unit of a multiple-family dwelling for the
collection of two 33-gallon containers per week. Any additional containers may
be collected at the discretion of the collector and any additional fees
therefore shall be collected by the collector.
      B.   Landfill Fee. A landfill fee of $1.25 per month for each residential
premises, each dwelling unit of a multiple-family dwelling and each commercial,
industrial, and institutional premises.
   2.   Payment of Bills. All fees are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section
92.04. Solid waste collection service may be discontinued in accordance with
the provisions contained in Section 92.05 if the combined service account
becomes delinquent, and the provisions contained in Section
92.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
   3.   Fee Exemption. A property owner shall be exempt from the monthly solid
waste collection and disposal fee during the period when the property owner has
water service temporarily discontinued in accordance with Section
92.10.
106.09   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.07, the owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof are
jointly and severally liable for fees for solid waste collection and disposal.
Fees remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon the property
or premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the County Treasurer
for collection in the same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
CHAPTER 110
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
110.01 Franchise Granted            110.11 Applicable Regulations
110.02 Rights and Privileges        110.12 Term of Franchise
110.03 Pipes and Mains              110.13 Regulation and Enforcement
110.04 Construction and Maintenance 110.14 Franchise Fee
110.05 Excavation                   110.15 Management Fees
110.06 Utility Easements            110.16 Termination
110.07 Relocation Not Required      110.17 Validity
110.08 Relocation Reimbursement     110.18 Assignment
110.09 Indemnification              110.19 Effective Date
110.10 Information                   
 
110.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
There is hereby granted to MidAmerican Energy Company, an Iowa corporation,
(hereinafter called “Company,”) and to its successors and assigns the right and
franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain, and operate in the City of
Rockwell City, Iowa, (hereinafter called the “City,”) a gas distribution
system, to furnish natural gas along, under, and upon the right-of-way,
streets, avenues, alleys, and public places to serve customers within and
without the City and to furnish and sell natural gas to the City and its
inhabitants. For the term of this franchise, the Company is granted the right
of eminent domain, the exercise of which is subject to Council approval upon
application by the Company. This franchise shall be effective for a 25-year
period from and after the effective date of this chapter.† 7
 
Notes
7 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 364, adopting a natural gas franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on October 17, 2016.
110.02   RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
The rights and privileges hereby granted are subject to the restrictions and
limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa, or as subsequently amended or
changed.
110.03   PIPES AND MAINS.
Company shall have the right to excavate in any public street for the purpose
of laying, relaying, repairing, or extending gas pipes, mains, conduits, and
other facilities provided that the same shall be so placed as not to
unreasonably interfere with any above or below-ground utility services or
facilities which have been or may hereafter be located by or under authority of
the City.
110.04   CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
The Company shall, excluding facilities located in private easements (whether
titled in Company exclusively or in Company and other entities), in accordance
with State law including Company’s tariff on file with and made effective by
the Iowa Utilities Board as may subsequently be amended (“Tariff,”) at its cost
and expense, locate and relocate its existing facilities or equipment in, on,
over, or under any public street or alley in the City in such a manner as the
City may reasonably require for the purposes of facilitating the construction
reconstruction, maintenance, or repair of the street or alley. Relocation
expenses for other hard surfaces, including pedestrian and non­motorized
vehicle pathways, will be paid by the City. If the City has a reasonable
alternative route for the street, alley, or public improvements or an
alternative construction method, which would not cause the relocation of the
Company installations, the City shall select said alternative route, or
construction method. The City shall be responsible for surveying and staking
the right-of-way for City projects that require the Company to relocate Company
facilities. If requested, the City shall provide, at no cost to the Company,
copies of its relocation plan and profile and cross-section drawings. If tree
and vegetation removal must be completed by the City as part of the City’s
project and are necessary whether or not utility facilities must be relocated,
the City, at its own cost, shall be responsible for said removals. If the
timing of the tree and vegetation removal does not coincide with the Company
facilities relocation schedule and Company must remove trees and vegetation
that are included in the City’s portion of the project, the City shall either
remove the material at its cost or reimburse the Company for the expenses
incurred to remove said vegetation or trees. If project funds from a source
other than the City are available to pay for the relocation of utility
facilities, the City shall attempt to secure said funds and provide them to the
Company to compensate the Company for the costs of relocation.
110.05   EXCAVATION.
In making excavations in any streets, avenues, alleys, and public places for
the installation of gas pipes, conduits, or apparatus, Company shall not
unreasonably obstruct the use of the streets and shall replace the surface,
restoring it to the condition as existed immediately prior to excavation.
Company agrees any replacement of road surface shall conform to current City
Code regarding its depth and composition. The Company shall not be required to
restore or modify public right-of-way, sidewalks, or other areas in or adjacent
to the Company project to a condition superior to its immediate previously
existing condition or to a condition exceeding its previously existing
condition to the extent any alterations are required for the City to comply
with City, State, or federal rules, regulations, or laws.
110.06   UTILITY EASEMENTS.
The City’s vacating a street, avenue, alley, public ground, or public right-of-
way shall not deprive the Company of its right to operate and maintain existing
facilities on, below, above, or beneath the vacated property. Prior to the City
abandoning or vacating any street, avenue, alley, or public ground where the
Company has facilities in the vicinity, the City shall provide Company with not
less than 60 days advance notice of the City’s proposed action and, upon
request, grant the Company a utility easement covering existing and future
facilities and activities. If the City fails to grant the Company a utility
easement for said facilities prior to abandoning or vacating a street, avenue,
alley, or public ground, the City shall, at its cost and expense, obtain
easements for the existing Company facilities.
110.07   RELOCATION NOT REQUIRED.
The Company shall not be required to relocate, at its cost and expense, Company
facilities in the public right-of-way that have been relocated at Company
expense at the direction of the City at any time during the previous 10 years.
110.08   RELOCATION REIMBURSEMENT.
Pursuant to relocation of Company facilities as may be required here under, if
the City orders or requests the Company to relocate its existing facilities or
equipment in order to directly or indirectly facilitate the project of a
commercial or private developer or other non-public entity, City shall
reimburse or the City shall require the developer or non-public entity to
reimburse the Company for the cost of such relocation as a precondition to
relocation. The Company shall not be required to relocate in order to
facilitate such private project at its expense.
110.09   INDEMNIFICATION.
The Company shall indemnify and save harmless the City from any and all claims,
suits, losses, damages, costs, or expenses, on account of injury or damage to
any person or property, to the extent caused or occasioned by the Company’s
negligence in construction, reconstruction, excavation, operation, or
maintenance of the natural gas facilities authorized by this franchise;
provided, however, that the Company shall not be obligated to defend,
indemnify, and save harmless the City for any costs or damages to the extent
arising from the negligence of the City, its officers, employees, or agents.
110.10   INFORMATION.
Upon reasonable request, the Company shall provide the City, on a project
specific basis, information indicating the horizontal location, relative to
boundaries of the right-of-way, of all equipment which it owns or over which it
has control that is located in the public right-of-way, including documents,
maps, and other information in paper or electronic or other forms
(“Information”). The Company and City recognize the Information may, in whole
or part, be considered a confidential record under State or federal law or
both. Upon receipt of a request from a third party for information concerning
information about the Company’s facilities within the City, the City will
promptly submit same to Company. If the Company believes any of the information
requested constitutes a trade secret which may otherwise be protected from
public disclosure by State or federal law, or otherwise exempt from disclosure
under the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission Critical Energy Infrastructure requirements pursuant to
18 CFR 388.112 and 388.113, or Chapter 22 of the Code of Iowa, as such statutes
and regulations may be amended from time to time, then the Company shall
provide the City with a written explanation of the basis for such assertion of
confidentiality or exemption from disclosure within 10 days.
110.11   APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
The Company shall extend its mains and pipes and operate, and maintain the
system in accordance with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities
Board or its successors and State law.
110.12   TERM OF FRANCHISE.
During the term of this franchise, the Company shall furnish natural gas in the
quantity and quality consistent and in accordance with the applicable
regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board the Company’s tariff made effective by
the Iowa Utilities Board or its successors and State law.
110.13   REGULATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
All reasonable and proper police regulations shall be adopted and enforced by
the City for the protection of the facilities of the Company.
110.14   FRANCHISE FEE.
A franchise fee of zero percent is imposed upon, and shall be collected from,
the natural gas customers of the Company receiving service and located within
the corporate limits of the City. The franchise fee shall be imposed upon the
gross receipts, minus uncollectible accounts, generated from sales of natural
gas and distribution service:
   1.   The City agrees to modify the level of franchise fees imposed only once
in any 24-month period.
   2.   The Company will commence collecting franchise fees on or before the
first Company billing cycle of the first calendar month following 90 days of
receipt of information required of the City to implement the franchise fee,
including the City’s documentation of customer classes subject to or exempted
from City imposed franchise fee.
   3.   The City shall be solely responsible for identifying customer classes
subject to or exempt from paying the City imposed franchise fee. The Company
shall have no obligation to collect franchise fees from customers in annexed
areas until and unless such ordinances have been provided to the Company by
certified mail. The Company shall commence collecting franchise fees in the
annexed areas no sooner than 60 days after receiving annexation ordinances from
the City.
   4.   The Company shall not, under any circumstances, be required to return
or refund any franchise fees that have been collected from customers and
remitted to the City. In the event the Company is required to provide data or
information in defense of the City’s imposition of franchise fees, or the
Company is required to assist the City in identifying customers or calculating
any franchise fee refunds for groups of or individual customers, the City shall
reimburse the Company for the expenses incurred by the Company to provide such
data or information.
110.15   MANAGEMENT FEES.
Upon implementation of a franchise fee, the City shall not, pursuant to Chapter
480A.6 of the Code of Iowa, impose or charge Company right-of-way management
fees for permits for Company construction, maintenance, repairs, excavation,
pavement cutting, or inspections of Company work sites and projects or related
matters.
110.16   TERMINATION.
Either City or Company (“party”) may terminate this franchise if the other
party shall be materially in breach of its provisions. Upon the occurrence of a
material breach, the non-breaching party shall provide the breaching party with
notification by certified mail specifying the alleged breach. The breaching
party shall have 60 days to cure the breach, unless it notifies the non-
breaching party, and the parties agree upon a shorter or longer period for
cure. If the breach is not cured within the cure period, the non-breaching
party may terminate this franchise. A party shall not be considered to be in
breach of this franchise if it has operated in compliance with State or federal
law. A party shall not be considered to have breached this franchise if the
alleged breach is the result of the actions of a third party or the other
party.
110.17   VALIDITY.
If any section, provision, or part of this chapter shall be adjudged to be
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall not affect the validity of
the chapter as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof not adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional.
110.18   ASSIGNMENT.
This chapter and the rights and privileges herein granted shall become
effective and binding upon its approval and passage in accordance with State
law and the written acceptance by the Company. The City shall provide Company
with an original signed and sealed copy of this chapter within 10 days of its
final passage. The Company shall, within 30 days after the Council approval of
this chapter, file in the office of the Clerk, its acceptance in writing of all
the terms and provisions of this chapter. Following Council approval, this
chapter shall be published in accordance with the Code of Iowa. The effective
date of this chapter shall be the date of publication. In the event that the
Company does not file its written acceptance of this chapter within 30 days
after its approval by the Council, this chapter shall be void and of no effect.
110.19   EFFECTIVE DATE.
Upon the effective date of this chapter, all prior natural gas franchises
granted to the Company to furnish natural gas to the City and its inhabitants
are hereby repealed and all other ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict
herewith are also hereby repealed.
CHAPTER 111
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
111.01 Franchise Granted            111.11 Information
111.02 Rights and Privileges        111.12 Term of Franchise
111.03 Appliances                   111.13 Franchise Fee
111.04 Construction and Maintenance 111.14 Management Fees
111.05 Excavation                   111.15 Applicability
111.06 Utility Easement             111.16 Termination
111.07 Relocation Not Required      111.17 Legality
111.08 Relocation Reimbursement     111.18 Assignment
111.09 Indemnification              111.19 Effective Date
111.10 Removal of Vegetation         
 
111.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
There is hereby granted to MidAmerican Energy Company, an Iowa corporation,
(hereinafter called “Company,”) and its successors and assigns, the right and
non-exclusive franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain, and operate in
the City of Rockwell City, Iowa, (hereinafter called the “City,”) a system for
the transmission and distribution of electric energy and communications signals
along, under, over, and upon the streets, avenues, rights-of-way, and alleys to
serve customers within the City, and to furnish and sell electric energy to the
City and its inhabitants. The Company is granted the right to exercise powers
of eminent domain, subject to Council approval. This franchise shall be
effective for a 25-year period from and after the effective date of this
chapter.† 8
 
Notes
8 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 363, adopting an electric franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on October 17, 2016.
111.02   RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
The rights and privileges hereby granted are subject to the restrictions and
limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa, or as subsequently amended or
changed.
111.03   APPLIANCES.
The Company shall have the right to erect all necessary poles and to place
thereon the necessary wires, fixtures, and accessories as well as to excavate
and bury conduits or conductors for the distribution of electric energy and
communications signals in and through the City, provided the same shall be
placed in accord with this franchise and City Code regulations of the City,
regarding the placement of structures, facilities, accessories, or other
objects in the right-of-way, including ordinances which assign corridors or
other placements to users of the right-of-way and requirements which may be
adopted regarding separation of structures, facilities, accessories, or other
objects.
111.04   CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
The Company shall, excluding facilities located in private easements (whether
titled in Company exclusively or in Company and other entities), in accordance
with State law including Company’s Tariff on file with and made effective by
the Iowa Utilities Board as may subsequently be amended (“Tariff”), at its cost
and expense, locate and relocate its existing installations located in, on,
over, or under the right-of-way of any public street, right-of-way, or alley in
the City in such a manner as the City may require for the purposes of
facilitating the construction, reconstruction, maintenance, or repair of the
street right-of-way or alley. If the City has a reasonable alternative route
for the street, right-of-way, or alley or an alternative construction method,
which would not cause the relocation of Company installations or would minimize
the cost or expense of relocation of Company installations, the City and
Company shall work together to consider said alternative route or construction
method. The City shall, in the extension or modification of streets and roads,
make provision for the placement of Company service lines and facilities on
City-owned right-of-way without charge to Company. In planning for the
extension or modification of streets, the City shall, to the extent
practicable, design such changes to limit the need for relocation of Company
facilities. The City shall be responsible for surveying and staking the right-
of-way for City projects that require the Company to relocate Company
facilities. If requested, the City shall provide, at no cost to the Company,
copies of the relocation plan, and profile and cross section drawings. If
vegetation and tree removals must be completed by the City as part of the
City’s project and are necessary whether or not utility facilities must be
relocated, the City, at its own cost, shall be responsible for said removals.
If the timing of vegetation and tree removals does not coincide with Company’s
facilities relocation schedule and the Company must remove vegetation and trees
that are included in the City’s portion of the project, the City shall either
remove them or reimburse the Company for the expenses incurred to remove said
materials. If project funds from a source other than the City are available to
pay for the relocation of utility facilities, the City shall use its best
efforts to secure said funds and provide them to the Company to compensate the
Company for the costs of relocation.
111.05   EXCAVATION.
In making excavations in any streets, avenues, and public places for the
installation, maintenance, or repair of conductor, conduits, or the erection of
poles and wires or other appliances, the Company shall not unreasonably
obstruct the use of the streets. The Company in making such excavations shall,
if required by ordinance, obtain a City permit therefore and provide City
representatives with advance notice prior to the actual commencement of the
work, and shall comply with all provisions and requirements of the City in its
regulation of the use of City right-of-way in performing such work. In
emergencies which require immediate excavation, the Company may proceed with
the work without first applying for or obtaining the permit, provided, however,
that Company shall apply for and obtain the excavation permit as soon as
possible after commencing such emergency work. The Company shall comply with
all provisions and requirements of the City in its regulation of the use of
City right-of-way in performing such work. The Company shall comply with all
City ordinances regarding paving cuts, placement of facilities, and restoration
of pavement and other public infrastructure. The Company shall replace the
surface, restoring the condition as existed prior to the Company’s excavation,
but shall not be required to improve or modify the public right-of-way,
sidewalks, or other areas in or adjacent to the Company project to a condition
superior to its immediate previously existing condition. Company shall complete
all repairs in a timely manner. Company agrees any replacement of road surface
shall conform to current City ordinances regarding its depth and composition.
111.06   UTILITY EASEMENT.
Vacating a street, avenue, alley, public ground, or public right-of-way shall
not deprive the Company of its right to operate and maintain existing
facilities and their replacements on, below, above, or beneath the vacated
property. Prior to the City abandoning or vacating any street, avenue, alley,
or public ground where the Company has electric facilities, the City shall
grant the Company a utility easement for said facilities.
111.07   RELOCATION NOT REQUIRED.
The Company shall not be required to relocate, at its cost and expense, Company
facilities in the public right-of-way that have been relocated at Company
expense at the direction of the City in the previous 10 years.
111.08   RELOCATION REIMBURSEMENT.
Pursuant to relocation of Company facilities, if the City orders or requests
the Company to relocate its existing facilities or equipment in order to
directly facilitate a project for the primary benefit of a commercial or
private developer or other non-public entity, the City shall require the
developer or non-public entity to reimburse the Company for the cost of such
relocation as a precondition to relocation of its existing facilities or
equipment. The Company shall not be required to relocate in order to facilitate
such private project at its expense.
111.09   INDEMNIFICATION.
The Company shall indemnify, save and hold harmless the City from any and all
claims, suits, losses, damages, costs, or expenses, on account of injury or
damage to any person or property, to the extent caused or occasioned by the
Company’s negligence in construction, reconstruction, excavation, operation, or
maintenance of the electric facilities authorized by this franchise; provided,
however, that the Company shall not be obligated to defend, indemnify, and save
harmless the City for any costs or damages to the extent arising from the
negligence of the City, its officers, employees, or agents.
111.10   REMOVAL OF VEGETATION.
The pruning and removal of vegetation and trees shall be done in accordance
with current nationally accepted safety and utility industry standards and
federal and State law, rules, and regulations. The Company is authorized and
empowered to prune or remove, at Company expense, any tree extending into any
street, avenue, right-of-way, alley, public place, or public grounds to
maintain electric reliability, safety, to restore utility service, and to
prevent limbs, branches, or trunks from interfering with the wires and
facilities of the Company. The pruning and removal of vegetation and trees
shall be completed in accordance with nationally accepted safety and utility
standards, NSI Zl33.1-2012, American National Standard for Arboricultural
Operations-Safety Requirements, and ANSI A300 (part 1) - 2008 Pruning,
(Revision of ANSI A300 part 1-2001) American National Standard for Tree, Shrub,
and other Woody Plant Management - Standard of Practices (Pruning) or
subsequent revisions to these standards, and City ordinances regarding the
pruning of trees that incorporate by reference that standard.
111.11   INFORMATION.
Upon reasonable request, the Company shall provide the City, on a project
specific basis, information indicating the horizontal location, relative to
boundaries of the right-of-way, of all equipment which it owns or over which it
has control that is located in City right-of-way, including documents, maps,
and other information in paper or electronic or other forms (“Information”).
The Company and City recognize the Information may, in whole or part, be
considered a confidential record under State or federal law or both. Therefore,
City shall not release any Information without prior consent of the Company and
shall return the Information to Company upon request. City recognizes that
Company claims the Information may constitute a trade secret or is otherwise
protected from public disclosure by State or federal law on other grounds, and
agrees to retain the Information in its non-public files. Furthermore, the City
agrees that no documents, maps, or other Information provided to the City by
the Company shall be made available to the public or other entities if such
documents or Information are exempt from disclosure under the provisions of the
Freedom of Information Act, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Critical
Energy Infrastructure requirements pursuant to 18 CFR 388.112 and 388.113, or
Chapter 22 of the Code of Iowa, as such statutes and regulations may be amended
from time to time. In the event any action at law, in equity or administrative
is brought against the City regarding disclosure of any document which the
Company has designated as a trade secret or as otherwise protected from
disclosure, the Company shall assume, upon request of the City, the defense of
said action and reimburse the City any and all costs, including attorney fees
and penalties to the extent allowed by law.
111.12   TERM OF FRANCHISE.
The Company shall construct, operate, and maintain its facilities in accordance
with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board, or its successors,
and State law. During the term of this franchise, the Company shall furnish
electric energy in the quantity and quality consistent with and in accordance
with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board, the Company's
tariff and made effective by the Iowa Utilities Board ,or its successors, and
State law.
111.13   FRANCHISE FEE.
There is hereby imposed upon the customers a franchise fee of zero percent upon
the gross revenues, minus uncollectible accounts, generated from sales of
electricity and distribution service, pursuant to the Tariff, by the Company
within the corporate limits of the City. The franchise fee shall be remitted by
the Company to the City on or before the last business day of the calendar
quarter following the close of the calendar quarter in which the franchise fee
is charged.
   1.   The City agrees to modify the level of franchise fees imposed only once
in any 24-month period.
   2.   The Company will commence collecting franchise fees on or before the
first Company billing cycle of the first calendar month following 90 days of
receipt of information required of the City to implement the franchise fee,
including the City’s documentation of customer classes subject to, or exempted
from, City-imposed franchise fee.
   3.   The City shall be solely responsible for identifying customer classes
subject to or exempt from paying the City imposed franchise fee. The Company
shall have no obligation to collect franchise fees from customers in annexed
areas until and unless such ordinances have been provided to the Company by
certified mail. The Company shall commence collecting franchise fees in the
annexed areas no sooner than 60 days after receiving annexation ordinances from
the City.
   4.   The Company shall not, under any circumstances, be required to return
or refund any franchise fees that have been collected from customers and
remitted to the City. In the event the Company is required to provide data or
information in defense of the City’s imposition of franchise fees or the
Company is required to assist the City in identifying customers, or calculating
any franchise fee refunds for groups of or individual customers the City shall
reimburse the Company for the expenses incurred by the Company to provide such
data or information.
111.14   MANAGEMENT FEES.
The City shall not, pursuant to Chapter 480A.6 of the Code of Iowa, impose or
charge right-of-way management fees upon the Company or fees for permits for
Company construction, maintenance, repairs, excavation, pavement cutting, or
inspections of Company work sites and projects or related matters.
111.15   APPLICABILITY.
This franchise shall apply to and bind the City and Company and their
successors and assigns.
111.16   TERMINATION.
Either City or Company (“party”) may terminate this franchise if the other
party shall be materially in breach of its provisions. Upon the occurrence of a
material breach, the non-breaching party shall provide the breaching party with
notification by certified mail specifying the alleged breach. The breaching
party shall have 60 days to cure the breach, unless it notifies the non-
breaching party, and the parties agree upon a longer period for cure. If the
breach is not cured within the cure period, the non-breaching party may
terminate this franchise. A party shall not be considered to be in breach of
this franchise if it has operated in compliance with State or federal law. A
party shall not be considered to have breached this franchise if the alleged
breach is the result of the actions of a third party or the other party.
111.17   LEGALITY.
If any of the provisions of this franchise chapter are for any reason declared
to be illegal or void, the lawful provisions of this franchise chapter, which
are severable from said unlawful provisions, shall be and remain in full force
and effect, the same as if the franchise chapter contained no illegal or void
provisions.
111.18   ASSIGNMENT.
This chapter and the rights and privileges herein granted shall become
effective and binding upon its approval and passage in accordance with State
law and the written acceptance by the Company. The City shall provide Company
with an original signed and sealed copy of this chapter within 10 days of its
final passage. The Company shall, within 30 days after the Council approval of
this chapter, file in the office of the Clerk, its acceptance in writing of all
the terms and provisions of this chapter. Following Council approval, this
chapter shall be published in accordance with the Code of Iowa. The effective
date of this chapter shall be the date of publication. In the event Company
does not file its written acceptance of this chapter within 30 days after its
approval by the Council, this chapter shall be void and of no effect.
111.19   EFFECTIVE DATE.
Upon the effective date of this chapter, all prior franchises granted to the
Company to furnish electric service to the City and its inhabitants are hereby
repealed and all other ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith
are also hereby repealed.
CHAPTER 115
CEMETERY
 
115.01 Definition               115.05 Perpetual Care
115.02 Trusteeship              115.06 Rules and Regulations
115.03 Records                  115.07 Vandalism in Cemetery
115.04 Sale of Interment Rights  
 
115.01   DEFINITION.
The term “cemetery” means the Rosehill Cemetery, which is a municipal cemetery
under the provisions of Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa, and which shall be
operated under the provisions of Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa and this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.501)
115.02   TRUSTEESHIP.
Pursuant to Section 523I.502 of the Code of Iowa, the City Council hereby
states its willingness and intention to act as the trustee for the perpetual
maintenance of the cemetery property. The cemetery shall be operated in
accordance with rules and regulations therefore under the direction of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.502)
115.03   RECORDS.
It is the duty of the Clerk to make and keep complete records identifying the
owners of all interment rights sold by the cemetery and historical information
regarding any transfers of ownership. The records shall include all of the
following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.311)
   1.   Sales or Transfers of Interment Rights.
      A.   The name and last known address of each owner or previous owner of
interment rights.
      B.   The date of each purchase or transfer of interment rights.
      C.   A unique numeric or alphanumeric identifier that identifies the
location of each interment space sold by the cemetery.
   2.   Interments.
      A.   The date the remains are interred.
      B.   The name, date of birth, and date of death of the decedent interred,
if those facts can be conveniently obtained.
      C.   A unique numeric or alphanumeric identifier that identifies the
location of each interment space where the remains are interred.
115.04   SALE OF INTERMENT RIGHTS.
The sale or transfer of interment rights in the cemetery shall be evidenced by
a certificate of interment rights or other instrument evidencing the conveyance
of exclusive rights of interment upon payment in full of the purchase price.
The agreement for interment rights shall disclose all information required by
Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa. The payment of all fees and charges shall be
made at the office of the Clerk where receipts will be issued for all amounts
paid. Said fees and charges shall be based upon the charges as established by
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.310)
115.05   PERPETUAL CARE.
The Council, by resolution, shall accept, receive, and expend all moneys and
property donated or left to them by bequest for perpetual care, and that
portion of interment space sales or permanent charges made against interment
spaces which has been set aside in a perpetual care fund. The assets of the
perpetual care fund shall be invested in accordance with State law. The
Council, by resolution, shall provide for the payment of interest annually to
the appropriate fund, or to the cemetery, or to the person in charge of the
cemetery, to be used in caring for or maintaining the individual property of
the donor in the cemetery or interment spaces that have been sold with
provisions for perpetual care, all in accordance with the terms of the donation
or bequest or the terms of the sale or purchase of an interment space and
Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.503, 523I.507, and 523I.508)
115.06   RULES AND REGULATIONS.
Rules and regulations for the cemetery may be adopted, and may be amended from
time to time, by resolution of the Council and may cover such things as the
use, care, control, management, restrictions and protection of the cemetery as
necessary for the proper conduct of the business of the cemetery. The rules
shall specify the cemetery’s obligations in the event that interment spaces,
memorials, or memorializations are damaged or defaced by acts of vandalism. Any
veteran, as defined in Section 35.1 of the Code of Iowa, who is a landowner or
who lives within the City shall be allowed to purchase an interment space and
to be interred within the cemetery. In addition, any veteran who purchases an
interment space within the cemetery shall be allowed to purchase an interment
space for interment of the spouse of the veteran if such a space is available,
and the surviving spouse of a veteran interred within the cemetery shall be
allowed to purchase an interment space and be interred within the cemetery if
such a space is available.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.304)
115.07   VANDALISM IN CEMETERY.
Any person who destroys, injures, or defaces any grave, vault, tombstone, or
monument, or any building, fence, tree, shrub, flower, or anything in or
belonging to any cemetery under the jurisdiction of the City shall be liable
for any and all damage, in addition to being subject to any other penalty
imposed.
CHAPTER 120
LIQUOR LICENSES AND WINE AND BEER PERMITS
 
120.01 License or Permit Required 120.04 Action by Council
120.02 General Prohibition        120.05 Prohibited Sales and Acts
120.03 Investigation              120.06 Amusement Devices
 
120.01   LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall manufacture for sale, import, sell, or offer or keep for sale,
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer without first securing a retail alcohol
license, wine permit, or beer permit in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.22, 123.122, and 123.171)
120.02   GENERAL PROHIBITION.
It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, sell, offer, or keep for sale, possess,
or transport alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer except upon the terms, conditions,
limitations, and restrictions enumerated in Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa,
and a license or permit may be suspended or revoked or a civil penalty may be
imposed for a violation thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.2, 123.39, and 123.50)
120.03   INVESTIGATION.
Upon receipt of an application for a retail alcohol license, the Clerk may
forward it to the Police Chief, who shall then conduct an investigation and
submit a written report as to the truth of the facts averred in the
application. The Fire Chief may also inspect the premises to determine if they
conform to the requirements of the City. The Council shall not approve an
application for a license for any premises that does not conform to the
applicable law and ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.30)
120.04   ACTION BY COUNCIL.
The Council shall either approve or disapprove the issuance of a retail alcohol
license, shall endorse its approval or disapproval on the application, and
shall forward the application with the necessary fee and bond, if required, to
the Iowa Department of Revenue.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.32[2])
120.05   PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS.
A person holding a retail alcohol license and the person’s agents or employees
shall not do any of the following:
   1.   Sell, dispense, or give to any intoxicated person, or one simulating
intoxication, any alcoholic beverage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[1])
   2.   Sell or dispense any alcoholic beverage on the premises covered by the
license, or permit its consumption thereon between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and
6:00 a.m. on any day of the week.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2b])
   3.   Sell alcoholic beverages to any person on credit, except with a bona
fide credit card. This provision does not apply to sales by a club to its
members, to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide registered guests, or to
retail sales by the managing entity of a convention center, civic center, or
events center.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2c])
   4.   Employ a person under 18 years of age in the sale or serving of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold, except as
follows:
      A.   Definitions. For use in this subsection the following terms are
defined as follows:
         (1)   “Bar” means an establishment where one may purchase alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises and in which the serving of food is
only incidental to the consumption of those beverages.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 142D.2[1])
         (2)   “Restaurant” means eating establishments, including private and
public school cafeterias, which offer food to the public, guests, or employees,
including the kitchen and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the
premises for serving elsewhere, and including a bar area within a restaurant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 142D.2[17])
      B.   This subsection shall not apply if the employer has, on file,
written permission from the parent, guardian, or legal custodian of a person 16
or 17 years of age for the person to sell or serve alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises where sold. However, a person 16 or 17 years of age
shall not work in a bar as defined in Paragraph A.
         (1)   The employer shall keep a copy of the written permission on file
until the person is either 18 years of age or no longer engaged in the sale of
or serving alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold.
         (2)   If written permission is on file in accordance with Paragraph B,
a person 16 or 17 years of age may sell or serve alcoholic beverages in a
restaurant as defined above in Paragraph A during the hours in which the
restaurant serves food.
      C.   A person 16 or 17 years of age shall not sell or serve alcoholic
beverages under this subsection unless at least two employees 18 years of age
or older are physically present in the area where alcoholic beverages are sold
or served.
      D.   If a person employed under this subsection reports an incident of
workplace harassment to the employer or if the employer otherwise becomes aware
of such an incident, the employer shall report the incident to the employee’s
parent, guardian, or legal custodian and to the Iowa Civil Rights Commission,
which shall determine if any action is necessary or appropriate under Chapter
216 of the Code of Iowa.
      E.   An employer that employs a person under this subsection shall
require the person to attend training on prevention and response to sexual
harassment upon commencing employment.
      F.   Prior to a person commencing employment under this subsection, the
employer shall notify the employer’s dramshop liability insurer, in a form and
time period prescribed by the Director, that the employer is employing a person
under this subsection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2f])
   5.   In the case of a retail wine or beer permittee, knowingly allow the
mixing or adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to wine, beer, or any
other beverage in or about the permittee’s place of business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2i])
   6.   Knowingly permit any gambling, except in accordance with Iowa law, or
knowingly permit any solicitation for immoral purposes, or immoral or
disorderly conduct on the premises covered by the license.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2a])
   7.   Knowingly permit or engage in any criminal activity on the premises
covered by the license.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2j])
   8.   Keep on premises covered by a retail alcohol license any alcoholic
liquor in any container except the original package purchased from the Iowa
Department of Revenue and except mixed drinks or cocktails mixed on the
premises for immediate consumption. However, mixed drinks or cocktails that are
mixed on the premises and are not for immediate consumption may be consumed on
the licensed premises, subject to rules adopted by the Iowa Department of
Revenue.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2d])
   9.   Reuse for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine any container or
receptacle used originally for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine; or
adulterate, by the addition of any substance, the contents, or remaining
contents of an original package of an alcoholic liquor or wine; or knowingly
possess any original package that has been reused or adulterated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2e])
   10.   Allow any person other than the licensee or employees of the licensee
to use or keep on the licensed premises any alcoholic liquor in any bottle or
other container that is designed for the transporting of such beverages, except
as allowed by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2g])
   11.   Sell, give, possess, or otherwise supply a machine that is used to
vaporize an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of being consumed in a vaporized
form.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2k])
   12.   Permit or allow any person under 21 years of age to remain upon
licensed premises unless over 50 percent of the dollar volume of the business
establishment comes from the sale and serving of prepared foods. This provision
does not apply to holders of a Class “B” beer permit or an establishment
employee when employed in compliance with State law.
120.06   AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
The following provisions pertain to electrical or mechanical amusement devices
possessed and used in accordance with Chapter 99B of the Code of Iowa. (Said
devices are allowed only in premises with a retail alcohol license, as
specifically authorized in said Chapter 99B.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 99B.57)
   1.   As used in this section, “registered electrical or mechanical amusement
device” means an electrical or mechanical device required to be registered with
the Iowa Department of Inspection and Appeals, as provided in Section 99B.53 of
the Code of Iowa.
   2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to participate in the
operation of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   3.   It is unlawful for any person owning or leasing a registered electrical
or mechanical amusement device, or an employee of a person owning or leasing a
registered electrical or mechanical amusement device, to knowingly allow a
person under the age of 21 to participate in the operation of a registered
electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   4.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly participate in the operation
of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device with a person under
the age of 21.
CHAPTER 121
CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO PERMITS
 
121.01 Definitions             121.06 Refunds
121.02 Permit Required         121.07 Persons Under Legal Age
121.03 Application             121.08 Self-Service Sales Prohibited
121.04 Fees                    121.09 Permit Revocation
121.05 Issuance and Expiration  
 
 
121.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.1)
   1.   “Alternative nicotine product” means a product, not consisting of or
containing tobacco, that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing, or
by any other means. “Alternative nicotine product” does not include cigarettes,
tobacco products, or vapor products, or a product that is regulated as a drug
or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   2.   “Cigarette” means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of
tobacco, or any substitute for tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and
irrespective of tobacco or any substitute for tobacco being flavored,
adulterated, or mixed with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper
or cover made of paper or any other material. However, cigarette shall not be
construed to include cigars.
   3.   “Place of business” means any place where cigarettes, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or vapor products are sold, stored, or kept for
the purpose of sale or consumption by a retailer.
   4.   “Retailer” means every person who sells, distributes, or offers for
sale for consumption, or possesses for the purpose of sale for consumption,
cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products, irrespective of
the quantity or amount or the number of sales, or who engages in the business
of selling tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products to ultimate consumers.
   5.   “Self-service display” means any manner of product display, placement,
or storage from which a person purchasing the product may take possession of
the product, prior to purchase, without assistance from the retailer or
employee of the retailer, in removing the product from a restricted access
location.
   6.   “Tobacco products” means the following: cigars; little cigars;
cheroots; stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and
other smoking tobacco; snuff; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and
other chewing tobaccos; shorts or refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and
sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such
manner as to be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or for
both chewing and smoking, but does not mean cigarettes.
   7.   “Vapor product” means any noncombustible product, which may or may not
contain nicotine, that employs a heating element, power source, electronic
circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of
shape or size, that can be used to produce vapor from a solution or other
substance. “Vapor product” includes an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device, and any
cartridge or other container of a solution or other substance, which may or may
not contain nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar
product or device. “Vapor product” does not include a product regulated as a
drug or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter
V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
121.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   1.   Retail Cigarette Permits. It is unlawful for any person, other than a
holder of a retail permit, to sell cigarettes, alternative nicotine products,
or vapor products at retail and no retailer shall distribute, sell, or solicit
the sale of any cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products
within the City without a valid permit for each place of business. The permit
shall, at all times, be publicly displayed at the place of business so as to be
easily seen by the public and the persons authorized to inspect the place of
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13)
   2.   Retail Tobacco Permits. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a retailer of tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products at any place of business without first having
received a permit as a retailer for each place of business owned or operated by
the retailer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A)
   A retailer who holds a retail cigarette permit is not required to also
obtain a retail tobacco permit. However, if a retailer only holds a retail
cigarette permit and that permit is suspended, revoked, or expired, the
retailer shall not sell any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products, during such time.
121.03   APPLICATION.
A completed application on forms furnished by the State Department of Revenue
or on forms made available or approved by the Department and accompanied by the
required fee shall be filed with the Clerk. Renewal applications shall be filed
at least five days prior to the last regular meeting of the Council in June. If
a renewal application is not timely filed, and a special Council meeting is
called to act on the application, the costs of such special meeting shall be
paid by the applicant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.04   FEES.
The fee for a retail cigarette or tobacco permit shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
 
FOR PERMITS GRANTED DURING:    FEE:
July, August, or September     $ 75.00
October, November, or December $ 56.25
January, February, or March    $ 37.50
April, May, or June            $ 18.75
 
121.05   ISSUANCE AND EXPIRATION.
Upon proper application and payment of the required fee, a permit shall be
issued. Each permit issued shall describe clearly the place of business for
which it is issued and shall be nonassignable. All permits expire on June 30 of
each year. The Clerk shall submit a duplicate of any application for a permit
to the Iowa Department of Revenue within 30 days of issuance of a permit.
121.06   REFUNDS.
A retailer may surrender an unrevoked permit and receive a refund from the
City, except during April, May, or June, in accordance with the schedule of
refunds as provided in Section 453A.13 or 453A.47A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.07   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
A person shall not sell, give, or otherwise supply any tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes to any
person under 21 years of age. The provision of this section includes
prohibiting a person under 21 years of age from purchasing tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, and cigarettes from a
vending machine. If a retailer or employee of a retailer violates the
provisions of this section, the Council shall, after written notice and
hearing, and in addition to the other penalties fixed for such violation,
assess the following:
   1.   For a first violation, the retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty
in the amount of $300.00. Failure to pay the civil penalty as ordered under
this subsection shall result in automatic suspension of the permit for a period
of 14 days.
   2.   For a second violation within a period of two years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 or the retailer’s permit
shall be suspended for a period of 30 days. The retailer may select its
preference in the penalty to be applied under this subsection.
   3.   For a third violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.
   4.   For a fourth violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 60 days.
   5.   For a fifth violation within a period of four years, the retailer’s
permit shall be revoked.
The Clerk shall give 10 days’ written notice to the retailer by mailing a copy
of the notice to the place of business as it appears on the application for a
permit. The notice shall state the reason for the contemplated action and the
time and place at which the retailer may appear and be heard.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2, 453A.22, and 453A.36[6])
121.08   SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED.
Except for the sale of cigarettes through a cigarette vending machine as
provided in Section 453A.36[6] of the Code of Iowa, a retailer shall not sell
or offer for sale tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products, or cigarettes through the use of a self-service display.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.36A)
121.09   PERMIT REVOCATION.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, as provided by the
Code of Iowa, the Council may also revoke a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter for a violation of Division I of Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or
any rule adopted thereunder. If a permit is revoked, a new permit shall not be
issued to the permit holder for any place of business, or to any other person
for the place of business at which the violation occurred, until one year has
expired from the date of revocation, unless good cause to the contrary is shown
to the Council. The Clerk shall report the revocation or suspension of a retail
permit to the Iowa Department of Revenue within 30 days of the revocation or
suspension.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.22)
CHAPTER 122
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
122.01 Purpose                  122.10 Time Restriction
122.02 Definitions              122.11 Revocation of License
122.03 License Required         122.12 Hearing
122.04 Application for License  122.13 Record and Determination
122.05 License Fees             122.14 Appeal
122.06 Bond Required            122.15 Effect of Revocation
122.07 License Issued           122.16 License Exemptions
122.08 Display of License       122.17 Charitable and Nonprofit Organizations
122.09 License Not Transferable  
 
122.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to protect residents of the City against fraud,
unfair competition, and intrusion into the privacy of their homes by licensing
and regulating peddlers, solicitors, and transient merchants.
122.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Peddler” means any person carrying goods or merchandise who sells or
offers for sale for immediate delivery such goods or merchandise from house to
house or upon the public street.
   2.   “Solicitor” means any person who solicits or attempts to solicit from
house to house or upon the public street any contribution or donation or any
order for goods, services, subscriptions, or merchandise to be delivered at a
future date.
   3.   “Transient merchant” means any person who engages in a temporary or
itinerant merchandising business and in the course of such business hires,
leases, or occupies any building or structure whatsoever, or who operates out
of a vehicle that is parked anywhere within the City limits. Temporary
association with a local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer, or conduct of
such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any
local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer does not exempt any person from
being considered a transient merchant.
122.03   LICENSE REQUIRED.
Any person engaging in peddling, soliciting, or in the business of a transient
merchant in the City without first obtaining a license as herein provided is in
violation of this chapter.
122.04   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
An application in writing shall be filed with the Clerk for a license under
this chapter. Such application shall set forth the applicant’s name, permanent
and local address, and business address if any. The application shall also set
forth the applicant’s employer, if any, and the employer’s address, the nature
of the applicant’s business, the last three places of such business, and the
length of time sought to be covered by the license. An application fee of
$10.00 shall be paid at the time of filing such application to cover the cost
of investigating the facts stated therein.
122.05   LICENSE FEES.
In addition to the application fee identified in Section
122.04 of this chapter, the following license fees shall be paid to the Clerk
prior to the issuance of any license.
   1.   Solicitors, Peddlers, or Transient Merchants.
      A.   For one day                  $5.00
      B.   For one week               $10.00
      C.   For up to six months            $50.00
      D.   For one year or major part thereof   $   100.00
122.06   BOND REQUIRED.
Before a license under this chapter is issued to a transient merchant, an
applicant shall provide to the Clerk evidence that the applicant has filed a
bond with the Secretary of State in accordance with Chapter 9C of the Code of
Iowa.
122.07   LICENSE ISSUED.
If the Clerk finds the application is completed in conformance with the
requirements of this chapter, the facts stated therein are found to be correct,
and the license fee paid, a license shall be issued immediately.
122.08   DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
Each solicitor or peddler shall keep such license in possession at all times
while doing business in the City and shall, upon the request of prospective
customers, exhibit the license as evidence of compliance with all requirements
of this chapter. Each transient merchant shall display publicly such merchant’s
license in the merchant’s place of business.
122.09   LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter are not transferable in
any situation and are to be applicable only to the person filing the
application.
122.10   TIME RESTRICTION.
All peddler’s and solicitor’s licenses shall provide that said licenses are in
force and effect only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
122.11   REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, the Clerk may
revoke any license issued pursuant to this chapter for the following reasons:
   1.   Fraudulent Statements. The licensee has made fraudulent statements in
the application for the license or in the conduct of the business.
   2.   Violation of Law. The licensee has violated this chapter or has
otherwise conducted the business in an unlawful manner.
   3.   Endangered Public Welfare, Health, or Safety. The licensee has
conducted the business in such manner as to endanger the public welfare,
safety, order, or morals.
The Clerk shall send the written notice to the licensee at the licensee’s local
address. The notice shall contain particulars of the complaints against the
licensee, the ordinance provisions or State statutes allegedly violated, and
the date, time, and place for hearing on the matter.
122.12   HEARING.
The Clerk shall conduct a hearing at which both the licensee and any
complainants shall be present to determine the truth of the facts alleged in
the complaint and notice. Should the licensee, or authorized representative,
fail to appear without good cause, the Clerk may proceed to a determination of
the complaint.
122.13   RECORD AND DETERMINATION.
The Clerk shall make and record findings of fact and conclusions of law, and
shall revoke a license only when upon review of the entire record the Clerk
finds clear and convincing evidence of substantial violation of this chapter or
State law.
122.14   APPEAL.
If the Clerk revokes or refuses to issue a license, the Clerk shall make a part
of the record the reasons therefor. The licensee, or the applicant, shall have
a right to a hearing before the Council at its next regular meeting. The
Council may reverse, modify, or affirm the decision of the Clerk by a majority
vote of the Council members present and the Clerk shall carry out the decision
of the Council.
122.15   EFFECT OF REVOCATION.
Revocation of any license shall bar the licensee from being eligible for any
license under this chapter for a period of one year from the date of the
revocation.
122.16   LICENSE EXEMPTIONS.
The following are excluded from the application of this chapter.
   1.   Newspapers. Persons delivering, collecting for, or selling
subscriptions to newspapers.
   2.   Club Members. Members of local civic and service clubs, Boy Scout, Girl
Scout, 4-H Clubs, Future Farmers of America, and similar organizations.
   3.   Local Residents and Farmers. Local residents and farmers who offer for
sale their own products.
   4.   Students. Students representing the Rockwell City - Lytton Community
School District conducting projects sponsored by organizations recognized by
the school.
   5.   Route Sales. Route delivery persons who only incidentally solicit
additional business or make special sales.
   6.   Resale or Institutional Use. Persons customarily calling on businesses
or institutions for the purposes of selling products for resale or
institutional use.
   7.   Minor Businesses. An on-site transactional business traditionally
operated exclusively by a person under the age of 18, operated on an occasional
basis for no more than 89 calendar days in a calendar year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[15])
122.17   CHARITABLE AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
Authorized representatives of charitable or nonprofit organizations operating
under the provisions of Chapter 504 of the Code of Iowa desiring to solicit
money or to distribute literature are exempt from the operation of Sections
122.04 and
122.05. All such organizations are required to submit to the Clerk in writing
the name and purpose of the cause for which such activities are sought, names
and addresses of the officers and directors of the organization, the period
during which such activities are to be carried on, and whether any commissions,
fees, or wages are to be charged by the solicitor and the amount thereof. If
the Clerk finds that the organization is a bona fide charity or nonprofit
organization, the Clerk shall issue, free of charge, a license containing the
above information to the applicant. In the event the Clerk denies the
exemption, the authorized representatives of the organization may appeal the
decision to the Council, as provided in Section
122.14.
CHAPTER 123
HOUSE MOVERS
 
123.01 House Mover Defined 123.07 Permit Issued
123.02 Permit Required     123.08 Public Safety
123.03 Application         123.09 Time Limit
123.04 Bond Required       123.10 Removal by City
123.05 Insurance Required  123.11 Protect Pavement
123.06 Permit Fee          123.12 Overhead Wires
 
123.01   HOUSE MOVER DEFINED.
A “house mover” means any person who undertakes to move a building or similar
structure upon, over or across public streets or property when the building or
structure is of such size that it requires the use of skids, jacks, dollies, or
any other specialized moving equipment.
123.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any person to engage in the activity of house mover as
herein defined without a valid permit from the City for each house, building,
or similar structure to be moved.
123.03   APPLICATION.
Application for a house mover’s permit shall be made in writing to the Clerk on
a form provided by the City. The application shall include:
1.   Name and Address. The applicant’s full name and address and, if a
corporation, the names and addresses of its principal officers.
2.   Building Location. An accurate description of the present location and
future site of the building or similar structure to be moved.
3.   Routing Plan. A routing plan approved by the Police Chief, street
superintendent, and public utility officials. The route approved shall be the
shortest route compatible with the greatest public convenience and safety.
123.04   BOND REQUIRED.
The applicant shall post with the Clerk a penal bond in the minimum sum of
$5,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue such bonds in the
State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for any damage done to
the City or to public property, and payment of all costs incurred by the City
in the course of moving the building or structure.
123.05   INSURANCE REQUIRED.
Each applicant shall also file a certificate of insurance indicating that the
applicant is carrying public liability insurance in effect for the duration of
the permit covering the applicant and all agents and employees for the
following minimum amounts:
   1.   Bodily Injury – $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
   2.   Property Damage – $50,000.00 per accident.
123.06   PERMIT FEE.
A permit fee of $25.00 shall be payable at the time of filing the application
with the Clerk. A separate permit shall be required for each house, building,
or similar structure to be moved.
123.07   PERMIT ISSUED.
Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and insurance certificate, and
payment of the required fee, the Clerk shall issue a permit.
123.08   PUBLIC SAFETY.
At all times when a building or similar structure is in motion upon any street,
alley, sidewalk, or public property, the permittee shall maintain flag persons
at the closest intersections or other possible channels of traffic to the
sides, behind, and ahead of the building or structure. At all times when the
building or structure is at rest upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or public
property the permittee shall maintain adequate warning signs or lights at the
intersections or channels of traffic to the sides, behind, and ahead of the
building or structure.
123.09   TIME LIMIT.
No house mover shall permit or allow a building or similar structure to remain
upon any street or other public way for a period of more than 12 hours without
having first secured the written approval of the City.
123.10   REMOVAL BY CITY.
In the event any building or similar structure is found to be in violation of
Section
123.09, the City is authorized to remove such building or structure and assess
the costs thereof against the permit holder and the surety on the permit
holder’s bond.
123.11   PROTECT PAVEMENT.
It is unlawful to move any house or building of any kind over any pavement,
unless the wheels or rollers upon which the house or building is moved are at
least one inch in width for each 1,000 pounds of weight of such building. If
there is any question as to the weight of a house or building, the estimate of
the City as to such weight shall be final.
123.12   OVERHEAD WIRES.
The holder of any permit to move a building shall see that all telephone, cable
television, and electric wires and poles are removed when necessary and
replaced in good order, and shall be liable for the costs of the same.
CHAPTER 135
STREET USE AND MAINTENANCE
 
135.01 Removal of Warning Devices 135.08 Burning Prohibited
135.02 Obstructing or Defacing    135.09 Excavations
135.03 Placing Debris On          135.10 Property Owner’s Responsibility for
                                  Maintenance
135.04 Playing In                 135.11 Failure to Maintain
135.05 Traveling On Barricaded    135.12 Dumping of Snow
Street or Alley
135.06 Use for Business Purposes  135.13 Driveway Culverts
135.07 Washing Vehicles           135.14 Use of Parkings
 
 
135.01   REMOVAL OF WARNING DEVICES.
It is unlawful for a person to willfully remove, throw down, destroy, or carry
away from any street or alley any lamp, obstruction, guard, or other article or
things, or extinguish any lamp or other light, erected, or placed thereupon for
the purpose of guarding or enclosing unsafe or dangerous places in said street
or alley without the consent of the person in control thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.02   OBSTRUCTING OR DEFACING.
It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, deface, or injure any street or
alley in any manner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.03   PLACING DEBRIS ON.
It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street or alley any
glass, glass bottle, nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter,
offal, leaves, grass, or any other debris likely to be washed into the storm
sewer and clog the storm sewer, or any substance likely to injure any person,
animal, or vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.369)
135.04   PLAYING IN.
It is unlawful for any person to coast, sled, or play games on streets or
alleys, except in the areas blocked off by the City for such purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.05   TRAVELING ON BARRICADED STREET OR ALLEY.
It is unlawful for any person to travel or operate any vehicle on any street or
alley temporarily closed by barricades, lights, signs, or flares placed thereon
by the authority or permission of any City official, police officer, or member
of the Fire Department.
135.06   USE FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.
It is unlawful to park, store, or place, temporarily or permanently, any
machinery or junk or any other goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind upon
any street or alley for the purpose of storage, exhibition, sale, or offering
same for sale, without permission of the Council.
135.07   WASHING VEHICLES.
It is unlawful for any person to use any public sidewalk, street, or alley for
the purpose of washing or cleaning any automobile, truck equipment, or any
vehicle of any kind when such work is done for hire or as a business. This does
not prevent any person from washing or cleaning their own vehicle or equipment
when it is lawfully parked in the street or alley.
135.08   BURNING PROHIBITED.
No person shall burn any trash, leaves, rubbish, or other combustible material
in any curb and gutter or on any paved or surfaced street or alley.
135.09   EXCAVATIONS.
No person shall dig, excavate, or in any manner disturb any street, parking, or
alley except in accordance with the following:
   1.   Permit Required. No excavation shall be commenced without first
obtaining a permit. A written application for such permit shall be filed with
the City and shall contain the following:
      A.   An exact description of the property, by lot and street number, in
front of or along which it is desired to excavate;
      B.   A statement of the purpose, for whom and by whom the excavation is
to be made;
      C.   The person responsible for the refilling of said excavation and
restoration of the street or alley surface; and
      D.   Date of commencement of the work and estimated completion date.
   2.   Public Convenience. Streets and alleys shall be opened in the manner
that will cause the least inconvenience to the public and admit the
uninterrupted passage of water along the gutter on the street.
   3.   Barricades, Fencing, and Lighting. Adequate barricades, fencing, and
warning lights meeting standards specified by the City shall be so placed as to
protect the public from hazard. Any costs incurred by the City in providing or
maintaining adequate barricades, fencing, or warning lights shall be paid to
the City by the permit holder or property owner.
   4.   Insurance Required. Each applicant shall also file a certificate of
insurance indicating that the applicant is carrying public liability insurance
in effect for the duration of the permit covering the applicant and all agents
and employees for the following minimum amounts:
      A.   Bodily Injury - $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
      B.   Property Damage - $50,000.00 per accident.
   5.   Restoration of Public Property. Streets, sidewalks, alleys, and other
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored to the
condition of the property prior to the commencement of the work, or in a manner
satisfactory to the City, at the expense of the permit holder or property
owner.
   6.   Inspection. All work shall be subject to inspection by the City.
Backfill shall not be deemed completed, and no resurfacing of any improved
street or alley surface shall begin, until such backfill is inspected and
approved by the City. The permit holder or property owner shall provide the
City with notice at least 24 hours prior to the time when inspection of
backfill is desired.
   7.   Completion by the City. Should any excavation in any street or alley be
discontinued or left open and unfinished for a period of 24 hours after the
approved completion date, or in the event the work is improperly done, the City
has the right to finish or correct the excavation work and charge any expenses
for such work to the permit holder or property owner.
   8.   Responsibility for Costs. The permit holder or property owner shall
bear all costs and expenses incident to the excavation. The permit holder and
owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by such excavation.
   9.   Notification. At least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the
excavation, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, the person
performing the excavation shall contact the Statewide Notification Center and
provide the center with the information required under Section 480.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
   10.   Permit Issued. Upon approval of the application and filing of the
insurance certificate, a permit shall be issued. A separate permit shall be
required for each excavation.
   11.   Permit Exemption. Utility companies are exempt from the permit
application requirement of this section. They shall, however, comply with all
other pertinent provisions.
135.10   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall maintain all property outside the lot and
property lines and inside the curb lines upon public streets and shall keep
such area in a safe condition, free from nuisances, obstructions, and hazards.
In the absence of a curb, such property shall extend from the property line to
that portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes.The
abutting property owner shall not be required to remove diseased trees or dead
wood on the publicly owned property or right-of-way.Maintenance includes, but
is not limited to, timely mowing, trimming trees and shrubs, and picking up
litter and debris. The abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused
by failure to maintain the publicly owned property or right-of-way.† 9
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: See also Section
9 136.04 relating to property owner’s responsibility for maintenance of
  sidewalks.
135.11   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
If the abutting property owner does not perform an action required under the
above section within a reasonable time, the City may perform the required
action and assess the cost against the abutting property for collection in the
same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2e])
135.12   DUMPING OF SNOW.
It is unlawful for any person to throw, push, or place or cause to be thrown,
pushed or placed, any ice or snow from private property, sidewalks, or
driveways onto the traveled way of a street or alley so as to obstruct gutters,
or impede the passage of vehicles upon the street or alley or to create a
hazardous condition therein; except where, in the cleaning of large commercial
drives in the Business District it is absolutely necessary to move the snow
onto the street or alley temporarily, such accumulation shall be removed
promptly by the property owner or agent. Arrangements for the prompt removal of
such accumulations shall be made prior to moving the snow.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.13   DRIVEWAY CULVERTS.
The property owner shall, at the owner’s expense, install any culvert deemed
necessary under any driveway or any other access to the owner’s property, and
before installing a culvert, permission must first be obtained from the City.
In the event repairs are needed at any time with respect to culverts, it shall
be the responsibility of the property owner to make such repairs, and, in the
event the owner fails to do so, the City shall have the right to make the
repairs. If the property owner fails to reimburse the City for the cost of said
repairs, the cost shall be certified to the County Treasurer and specially
assessed against the property as by law provided.
135.14   USE OF PARKINGS.
It is unlawful to temporarily or permanently park, store, or place any car,
truck, vehicle, junk, or any other goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind
upon any street parking without permission of the Council.
CHAPTER 136
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
136.01 Purpose                               136.11 Interference with Sidewalk
                                             Improvements
136.02 Definitions                           136.12 Awnings
136.03 Removal of Snow, Ice, and             136.13 Encroaching Steps
Accumulations
136.04 Property Owner’s Responsibility for 136.14 Openings and Enclosures
Maintenance
136.05 City May Order Repairs                136.15 Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
136.06 Sidewalk Construction Ordered         136.16 Defacing
136.07 Permit Required                       136.17 Debris on Sidewalks
136.08 Sidewalk Standards                    136.18 Merchandise Display
136.09 Barricades and Warning Lights         136.19 Sales Stands
136.10 Failure to Repair or Barricade         
 
136.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to enhance safe passage by citizens on
sidewalks, to place the responsibility for the maintenance, repair,
replacement, or reconstruction of sidewalks upon the abutting property owner
and to minimize the liability of the City.
136.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Broom finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by sweeping the
sidewalk when it is hardening.
   2.   “Established grade” means that grade established by the City for the
particular area in which a sidewalk is to be constructed.
   3.   “One-course construction” means that the full thickness of the concrete
is placed at one time, using the same mixture throughout.
   4.   “Owner” means the person owning the fee title to property abutting any
sidewalk and includes any contract purchaser for purposes of notification
required herein. For all other purposes, “owner” includes the lessee, if any.
   5.   “Portland cement” means any type of cement except bituminous cement.
   6.   “Sidewalk” means all permanent public walks in business, residential or
suburban areas.
   7.   “Sidewalk improvements” means the construction, reconstruction, repair,
replacement, or removal of a public sidewalk or the excavating, filling, or
depositing of material in the public right-of-way in connection therewith.
   8.   “Wood float finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by smoothing
the surface of the sidewalk with a wooden trowel.
136.03   REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, AND ACCUMULATIONS.
The abutting property owner shall remove snow, ice, and accumulations promptly
from sidewalks. If a property owner does not remove snow, ice, or accumulations
within 12 hours, the City may do so and assess the costs against the property
owner for collection in the same manner as a property tax. The abutting
property owner may be liable for damages caused by failure to remove snow, ice,
and accumulations promptly from the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2b and e])
136.04   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall maintain in a safe and hazard-free condition
any sidewalk outside the lot and property lines and inside the curb lines or,
in the absence of a curb, any sidewalk between the property line and that
portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
136.05   CITY MAY ORDER REPAIRS.
If the abutting property owner does not maintain sidewalks as required, the
Council may serve notice on such owner, by certified mail, requiring the owner
to repair, replace, or reconstruct sidewalks within a reasonable time and if
such action is not completed within the time stated in the notice, the Council
may require the work to be done and assess the costs against the abutting
property for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2d and e])
136.06   SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION ORDERED.
The Council may order the construction of permanent sidewalks upon any street
or court in the City and may specially assess the cost of such improvement to
abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 384 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.38)
136.07   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall remove, reconstruct, or install a sidewalk unless such person
has obtained a permit from the City and has agreed in writing that said
removal, reconstruction, or installation will comply with all ordinances and
requirements of the City for such work.
136.08   SIDEWALK STANDARDS.
Sidewalks repaired, replaced, or constructed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be of the following construction and meet the following
standards:
   1.   Cement. Portland cement shall be the only cement used to construct and
repair sidewalks.
   2.   Construction. Sidewalks shall be of one-course construction.
   3.   Sidewalk Base. Concrete may be placed directly on compact and well-
drained soil. Where soil is not well drained, a three-inch sub-base of compact,
clean, coarse gravel or sand shall be laid. The adequacy of the soil drainage
is to be determined by the City.
   4.   Sidewalk Bed. The sidewalk bed shall be so graded that the constructed
sidewalk will be at an established grade.
   5.   Length, Width, and Depth. Length, width, and depth requirements are as
follows:
      A.   Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide and four
inches thick, and each section shall be no more than six feet long.
      B.   Business District sidewalks shall extend from the property line to
the curb. Each section shall be four inches thick and no more than six feet in
length.
      C.   Driveway areas shall be not less than six inches in thickness.
   6.   Location. Residential sidewalks shall be located with the inner edge
(edge nearest the abutting private property) one foot from the property line,
unless the Council establishes a different distance due to special
circumstances.
   7.   Grade. Curb tops shall be on level with the centerline of the street,
which is the established grade.
   8.   Elevations. The street edge of a sidewalk shall be at an elevation even
with the curb at the curb or not less than one-half inch above the curb for
each foot between the curb and the sidewalk.
   9.   Slope. All sidewalks shall slope one-fourth inch per foot toward the
curb.
   10.   Finish. All sidewalks shall be finished with a broom finish or wood
float finish.
   11.   Curb Ramps and Sloped Areas for Persons with Disabilities. If a
street, road, or highway is newly built or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped
area shall be constructed or installed at each intersection of the street,
road, or highway with a sidewalk or path. If a sidewalk or path is newly built
or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped area shall be constructed or installed
at each intersection of the sidewalk or path with a street, highway, or road.
Curb ramps and sloped areas that are required pursuant to this subsection shall
be constructed or installed in compliance with applicable federal requirements
adopted in accordance with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act,
including (but not limited to) the guidelines issued by the Federal
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 216C.9)
136.09   BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
Whenever any material of any kind is deposited on any street, avenue, highway,
passageway, or alley when sidewalk improvements are being made or when any
sidewalk is in a dangerous condition, it shall be the duty of all persons
having an interest therein, either as the contractor or the owner, agent, or
lessee of the property in front of or along which such material may be
deposited, or such dangerous condition exists, to put in conspicuous places at
each end of such sidewalk and at each end of any pile of material deposited in
the street, a sufficient number of approved warning lights or flares, and to
keep them lighted during the entire night and to erect sufficient barricades
both at night and in the daytime to secure the same. The party or parties using
the street for any of the purposes specified in this chapter shall be liable
for all injuries or damage to persons or property arising from any wrongful act
or negligence of the party or parties, or their agents or employees or for any
misuse of the privileges conferred by this chapter or of any failure to comply
with provisions hereof.
136.10   FAILURE TO REPAIR OR BARRICADE.
It is the duty of the owner of the property abutting the sidewalk, or the
owner’s contractor or agent, to notify the City immediately in the event of
failure or inability to make necessary sidewalk improvements or to install or
erect necessary barricades as required by this chapter.
136.11   INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
No person shall knowingly or willfully drive any vehicle upon any portion of
any sidewalk or approach thereto while in the process of being improved or upon
any portion of any completed sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove or
destroy any part or all of any sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove,
destroy, mar, or deface any sidewalk at any time or destroy, mar, remove, or
deface any notice provided by this chapter.
136.12   AWNINGS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any awning over any sidewalk
unless all parts of the awning are elevated at least eight feet above the
surface of the sidewalk and the roof or covering is made of duck, canvas or
other suitable material supported by iron frames or brackets securely fastened
to the building, without any posts or other device that will obstruct the
sidewalk or hinder or interfere with the free passage of pedestrians.
136.13   ENCROACHING STEPS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any stairs or steps to any
building upon any part of any sidewalk without permission by resolution of the
Council.
136.14   OPENINGS AND ENCLOSURES.
It is unlawful for a person to:
1.   Stairs and Railings. Construct or build a stairway or passageway to any
cellar or basement by occupying any part of the sidewalk, or to enclose any
portion of a sidewalk with a railing without permission by resolution of the
Council.
2.   Openings. Keep open any cellar door, grating, or cover to any vault on any
sidewalk except while in actual use with adequate guards to protect the public.
3.   Protect Openings. Neglect to properly protect or barricade all openings on
or within six feet of any sidewalk.
136.15   FIRES OR FUEL ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to make a fire of any kind on any sidewalk or to
place or allow any fuel to remain upon any sidewalk.
136.16   DEFACING.
It is unlawful for a person to scatter or place any paste, paint, or writing on
any sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
136.17   DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to throw or deposit on any sidewalk any glass,
nails, glass bottle, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, offal,
or any other debris, or any substance likely to injure any person, animal, or
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
136.18   MERCHANDISE DISPLAY.
It is unlawful for a person to place upon or above any sidewalk, any goods or
merchandise for sale or for display in such a manner as to interfere with the
free and uninterrupted passage of pedestrians on the sidewalk; in no case shall
more than three feet of the sidewalk next to the building be occupied for such
purposes.
136.19   SALES STANDS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or keep any vending machine or stand for
the sale of fruit, vegetables, or other substances or commodities on any
sidewalk without first obtaining a written permit from the Council.
CHAPTER 137
VACATION AND DISPOSAL OF STREETS
 
137.01 Power to Vacate                137.04 Findings Required
137.02 Planning and Zoning Commission 137.05 Disposal of Vacated Streets or
                                      Alleys
137.03 Notice of Vacation Hearing     137.06 Disposal by Gift Limited
 
137.01   POWER TO VACATE.
When, in the judgment of the Council, it would be in the best interest of the
City to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds, the
Council may do so by ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2a])
137.02   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
Any proposal to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds
shall be referred by the Council to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its
study and recommendation prior to further consideration by the Council. The
Commission shall submit a written report including recommendations to the
Council within 30 days after the date the proposed vacation is referred to the
Commission.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
137.03   NOTICE OF VACATION HEARING.
The Council shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing of the time
at which the proposal to vacate shall be considered.
137.04   FINDINGS REQUIRED.
No street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds shall be vacated
unless the Council finds that:
   1.   Public Use. The street, alley, portion thereof, or any public ground
proposed to be vacated is not needed for the use of the public, and therefore,
its maintenance at public expense is no longer justified.
   2.   Abutting Property. The proposed vacation will not deny owners of
property abutting on the street or alley reasonable access to their property.
137.05   DISPOSAL OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS.
When in the judgment of the Council it would be in the best interest of the
City to dispose of a vacated street or alley, portion thereof or public ground,
the Council may do so in accordance with the provisions of Section 364.7, Code
of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7)
137.06   DISPOSAL BY GIFT LIMITED.
The City may not dispose of real property by gift except to a governmental body
for a public purpose or to a fair.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 174.15[2] and 364.7[3])
 
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted, vacating certain streets, alleys, or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted, vacating certain streets, alleys, or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED            ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
101           August 30, 1915                  
121           October 3, 1921                  
133A          December 24, 1925                
143           February 4, 1929                 
207           June 1, 1959                     
211           September 17, 1962               
230           August 20,1973                   
279           June 4, 1990                     
311           October 21, 1996                 
385           July 18, 2022                    
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                             
 
CHAPTER 138
STREET GRADES
 
138.01 Purpose and Definition 138.03 Record Maintained
138.02 Established Grades      
 
 
138.01   PURPOSE AND DEFINITION.
This chapter is designed to meet the requirements of the Code of Iowa for the
establishment of street grades.As used herein, “grade” means the longitudinal
reference lines, as established by ordinance of the Council, which designate
the elevation at which a street or sidewalk is to be built.
138.02   ESTABLISHED GRADES.
The grades of all streets, alleys, and sidewalks, which have been heretofore
established by ordinance, are hereby confirmed, ratified, and established as
official grades.
138.03   RECORD MAINTAINED.
The Clerk shall maintain a record of all established grades and furnish
information concerning such grades upon request.
 
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted, establishing street or sidewalk grades and remain
in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted, establishing street or sidewalk grades and remain
in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED            ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
25            September 19, 1892               
58            June 20, 1902                    
60            May 18, 1903                     
68            October 19, 1903                 
96            February 10, 1915                
119           June 7, 1921                     
126           March 28, 1922                   
131           July 25, 1923                    
165           November 4, 1940                 
166           March 3, 1941                    
169           No Date                          
190           January 3, 1955                  
212           June 1, 1964                     
213           June 1, 1964                     
214           September 8, 1964                
219           April 3, 1967                    
220           August 7, 1967                   
                                             
                                             
 
CHAPTER 139
NAMING OF STREETS
 
139.01 Naming New Streets      139.04 Official Street Name Map
139.02 Changing Name of Street 139.05 Revision of Street Name Map
139.03 Recording Street Names   
 
139.01   NAMING NEW STREETS.
New streets shall be assigned names in accordance with the following:
   1.   Extension of Existing Street. Streets added to the City that are
natural extensions of existing streets shall be assigned the name of the
existing street.
   2.   Resolution. All street names, except streets named as a part of a
subdivision or platting procedure, shall be named by resolution.
   3.   Planning and Zoning Commission. Proposed street names shall be referred
to the Planning and Zoning Commission for review and recommendation.
139.02   CHANGING NAME OF STREET.
The Council may, by resolution, change the name of a street.
139.03   RECORDING STREET NAMES.
Following official action naming or changing the name of a street, the Clerk
shall file a copy thereof with the County Recorder, County Auditor, and County
Assessor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.26)
139.04   OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP.
Streets within the City are named as shown on the Official Street Name Map,
which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
The Official Street Name Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor,
and bearing the seal of the City under the following words: “This is to certify
that this is the Official Street Name Map referred to in Section
139.04 of the Code of Ordinances of Rockwell City, Iowa.”
139.05   REVISION OF STREET NAME MAP.
If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in
street names, such changes shall be entered on the Official Street Name Map
promptly after the change has been approved by the Council with an entry on the
Official Street Name Map as follows: “On (date), by official action of the City
Council, the following changes were made in the Official Street Name Map:
(brief description),” which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by
the Clerk.
CHAPTER 140
CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES
 
140.01 Exercise of Police Power 140.03 Right of Access Limited
140.02 Definition               140.04 Access Controls Imposed
 
140.01   EXERCISE OF POLICE POWER.
This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of the City under
Chapter 306A, Code of Iowa, for the preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, and for the promotion of the general welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.1)
140.02   DEFINITION.
The term “controlled access facility” means a highway or street especially
designed for through traffic, and over, from or to which owners or occupants of
abutting land or other persons have no right or easement or only a controlled
right or easement of access, light, air, or view by reason of the fact that
their property abuts upon such controlled access facility or for any other
reason.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.2)
140.03   RIGHT OF ACCESS LIMITED.
No person has any right of ingress or egress to or from abutting lands onto or
across any controlled access facility, except at such designated points at
which access is permitted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.4)
140.04   ACCESS CONTROLS IMPOSED.
There are hereby fixed and established controlled access facilities within the
City, described as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.3)
   1.   Project No. FA-10, FA-736C, and F-370(3). On the Primary Road System
extension improvement, Project No. FA-10, FA-736C, and F-370(3), Primary Road
No. U.S. 20 and Highway 4, within the City, described as follows:
Beginning at the Southwest corner (Station 428+66.6R.) of corporate limits of
the City of Rockwell City, Iowa, thence north along Highway No. Iowa 4, being
the west edge of the corporate limits of said city, to a point 4576.6 feet
north of the Southwest corner of said corporate limits (Station 474+43.2 Rt.)
and thence north, following the east “Y” arm of Highway No. Iowa 4, to point
where east “Y” arm junctions with Highway No. U.S. 20 (Station 1486+06.9) being
Project No. FA-10, and commencing on High Street at the west corporation line
(Station 1043+28) thence easterly approximately 4339 feet (Station 999.9+89) on
High Street to intersection of Fourth Street, being Project No. 370.C, said
High Street in City of Rockwell City, Iowa, being also known as Highway No.
U.S. 20, and beginning at the southwest corner of Section 30, Township 88
North, Range 32, (Station 983+10), also known as intersection of High Street
and First Street in said City, thence east along High Street, being also known
as Highway No. U.S. 20, to the east corporate line of said city (Station 42+27)
being Project No. F-370(3).
regulating access to and from abutting properties along said highway all in
accordance with the plans for such improvement identified as Project No. FA-10,
FA-736C, and F-370(3), on file in the office of the Clerk.
CHAPTER 141
DRIVEWAY REGULATIONS
 
141.01 Definitions                       141.06 Sidewalks
141.02 Permission Required               141.07 Driveways to be Paved
141.03 Width and Number of Curb Openings 141.08 Inspection and Approval
141.04 Location of Driveway              141.09 Existing Driveways Altered
141.05 Method of Cutting Curb             
 
141.01   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Driveway” means that part of any approach for motor vehicles to
private property that lies between the property line and roadway of the public
street.
   2.   “Paving” means any kind of hard surfacing including, but not limited
to, Portland cement concrete, bituminous concrete, brick, stabilized gravel, or
combinations of such materials with the necessary base. “Paving” does not
include surfacing with oil, gravel, oil and gravel, or chloride.
141.02   PERMISSION REQUIRED.
No curb shall be cut or changed, and no parking or public property shall be
used for a driveway or parking without first obtaining written permission from
the Council. Enforcement of this chapter and inspections as required herein
shall be carried out by the Maintenance Superintendent.
141.03   WIDTH AND NUMBER OF CURB OPENINGS.
The curb opening for a single drive shall not be less than 16 feet or more than
24 feet in width. In general, only one opening shall be granted per residence
in residential areas. The Council may grant additional openings in special
cases such as for larger corner lots, etc. The width and number of curb
openings for business and commercial places shall be determined as to the needs
by the Council. Any opening onto a State-owned road shall be approved by the
State Department of Transportation and the Council.
141.04   LOCATION OF DRIVEWAY.
Where possible, no driveway shall be placed nearer than five feet to the
sidelines of owner’s property. No driveway shall be within 15 feet of any
intersection at the property line.
141.05   METHOD OF CUTTING CURB.
Curb shall be saw cut at least two inches deep as close to face of curb as
possible and at ends of opening as deep as possible. Curb shall then be removed
to full depth of pavement. When curb is removed by this method, no expansion
joint will be used between drive and existing pavement. One-half-inch preformed
expansion joint is to be used between drive and existing pavement when existing
curb drop is used.
141.06   SIDEWALKS.
The grade of any sidewalk shall not be altered by the work done. The driveway
shall be at the same level as any existing sidewalk.
141.07   DRIVEWAYS TO BE PAVED.
All driveways shall be paved to property line with one of the following types
of surfaces: six-inch plain Portland Cement concrete; five-inch mesh reinforced
concrete; five-inch crushed stone base with two-inch asphaltic concrete
overlay; or C-4 concrete mix, subject to any exception granted by the Council.
141.08   INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
The driveway must be inspected and approved by the City within 30 days after
completion of the work. The City shall keep a record of such approvals. If the
work is not approved, it must be corrected immediately so it will meet with the
City’s approval. If the work has been done improperly, the City shall have the
right to finish or correct the work and the Council shall assess the cost to
the property owner. Such assessment shall be collected with the general
property taxes and in the same manner.
141.09   EXISTING DRIVEWAYS ALTERED.
Existing driveways being altered or modified which require removal of curbing
must conform to all driveway regulations.
CHAPTER 145
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
 
145.01 Enforcement Officer          145.05 Conduct of Hearing
145.02 General Definition of Unsafe 145.06 Posting of Signs
145.03 Unsafe Building              145.07 Right to Demolish; Municipal
                                    Infraction
145.04 Notice to Owner              145.08 Costs
 
 
145.01   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
The Mayor is responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
145.02   GENERAL DEFINITION OF UNSAFE.
All buildings or structures that are structurally unsafe or not provided with
adequate egress, or that constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous
to human life, or that in relation to existing use constitute a hazard to
safety or health, or public welfare, by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, obsolescence, or abandonment, are, for the purpose of this
chapter, unsafe buildings. All such unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be
public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or
removal in accordance with the procedure specified in this chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657A.1 and 364.12[3a])
145.03   UNSAFE BUILDING.
“Unsafe building” means any structure or mobile home meeting any or all of the
following criteria:
   1.   Various Inadequacies. Whenever the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, because of:
      A.   Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay;
      B.   Faulty construction;
      C.   The removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the ground
necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
      D.   The deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or
      E.   Any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse.
   2.   Manifestly Unsafe. Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure,
or any portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is
being used.
   3.   Inadequate Maintenance. Whenever a building or structure, used or
intended to be used for dwelling purposes, because of dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction, or otherwise, is determined by any health officer
to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such condition that it is
likely to cause sickness or disease.
   4.   Fire Hazard. Whenever any building or structure, because of dilapidated
condition, deterioration, damage, or other cause, is determined by the Fire
Marshal or Fire Chief to be a fire hazard.
   5.   Abandoned. Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
145.04   NOTICE TO OWNER.
The enforcement officer shall examine or cause to be examined every building or
structure or portion thereof reported as dangerous or damaged and, if such is
found to be an unsafe building as defined in this chapter, the enforcement
officer shall give to the owner of such building or structure written notice
stating the defects thereof. This notice may require the owner or person in
charge of the building or premises, within 48 hours or such reasonable time as
the circumstances require, to commence either the required repairs or
improvements or demolition and removal of the building or structure or portions
thereof, and all such work shall be completed within 90 days from date of
notice, unless otherwise stipulated by the enforcement officer. If necessary,
such notice shall also require the building, structure, or portion thereof to
be vacated forthwith and not reoccupied until the required repairs and
improvements are completed, inspected, and approved by the enforcement officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   1.   Notice Served. Such notice shall be served by sending by certified mail
to the owner of record, according to Section 364.12[3h] of the Code of Iowa, if
the owner is found within the City limits. If the owner is not found within the
City limits, such service may be made upon the owner by registered mail or
certified mail. The designated period within which said owner or person in
charge is required to comply with the order of the enforcement officer shall
begin as of the date the owner receives such notice.
   2.   Hearing. Such notice shall also advise the owner that they may request
a hearing before the Council on the notice by filing a written request for
hearing within the time provided in the notice.
145.05   CONDUCT OF HEARING.
If requested, the Council shall conduct a hearing in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Notice. The owner shall be served with written notice specifying the
date, time, and place of hearing.
   2.   Owner’s Rights. At the hearing, the owner may appear and show cause why
the alleged nuisance shall not be abated.
   3.   Determination. The Council shall make and record findings of fact and
may issue such order as it deems appropriate.† 10
 
Notes
   † EDITOR’S NOTE: Suggested forms of notice and of a resolution and order of the
   Council for the administration of this chapter are provided in the APPENDIX to
10 this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use of this procedure. We
   recommend you review the situation with your attorney before initiating
   procedures and follow their recommendation carefully.
145.06   POSTING OF SIGNS.
The enforcement officer shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such
building a notice to read: “DO NOT ENTER. UNSAFE TO OCCUPY. CITY OF ROCKWELL
CITY, IOWA.” Such notice shall remain posted until the required demolition,
removal or repairs are completed. Such notice shall not be removed without
written permission of the enforcement officer and no person shall enter the
building except for the purpose of making the required repairs or of
demolishing the building.
145.07   RIGHT TO DEMOLISH; MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
In case the owner fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with the notice to
repair, rehabilitate, or to demolish and remove the building or structure or
portion thereof, the Council may order the owner of the building prosecuted as
a violator of the provisions of this chapter and may order the enforcement
officer to proceed with the work specified in such notice. A statement of the
cost of such work shall be transmitted to the Council. As an alternative to
this action, the City may utilize the municipal infraction process to abate the
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
145.08   COSTS.
Costs incurred under Section
145.07 shall be paid out of the City treasury. Such costs shall be charged to
the owner of the premises involved and levied as a special assessment against
the land on which the building or structure is located, and shall be certified
to the County Treasurer for collection in the manner provided for other taxes.
In addition, the City may take any other action deemed appropriate to recover
costs incurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
CHAPTER 146
MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES
 
146.01 Definitions                 146.03 Foundation Requirements
146.02 Conversion to Real Property  
 
146.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.1)
   1.   “Manufactured home” means a factory-built structure built under the
authority of 42 U.S.C. Sec. 5403 which was constructed on or after June 15,
1976, and is required by federal law to display a seal from the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   2.   “Manufactured home community” means any site, lot, field, or tract of
land under common ownership upon which 10 or more occupied manufactured homes
are harbored, either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and includes any
building, structure, or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the
equipment of the manufactured home community.
   3.   “Mobile home” means any vehicle without motive power used or so
manufactured or constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon
the public streets and highways and so designed, constructed, or reconstructed
as will permit the vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or
more persons; but also includes any such vehicle with motive power not
registered as a motor vehicle in the State. A mobile home means any such
vehicle built before June 15, 1976, which was not built to a mandatory building
code and which contains no State or federal seals.
   4.   “Mobile home park” means any site, lot, field, or tract of land upon
which three or more mobile homes or manufactured homes, or a combination of any
of these homes, are placed on developed spaces and operated as a for-profit
enterprise with water, sewer or septic, and electrical services available.
The term “manufactured home community” or “mobile home park” is not to be
construed to include manufactured or mobile homes, buildings, tents, or other
structures temporarily maintained by any individual, educational institution,
or company on its own premises and used exclusively to house said entity’s own
labor or students. The manufactured home community or mobile home park shall
meet the requirements of any zoning regulations that are in effect.
146.02   CONVERSION TO REAL PROPERTY.
A mobile home or manufactured home that is located outside a manufactured home
community or mobile home park shall be converted to real estate by being placed
on a permanent foundation and shall be assessed for real estate taxes except in
the following cases:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.26)
   1.   Retailer’s Stock. Mobile homes or manufactured homes on private
property as part of a retailer’s or a manufacturer’s stock not used as a place
for human habitation.
   2.   Existing Homes. A taxable mobile home or manufactured home that is
located outside of a manufactured home community or mobile home park as of
January 1, 1995, shall be assessed and taxed as real estate, but is exempt from
the permanent foundation requirement of this chapter until the home is
relocated.
146.03   FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS.
A mobile home or manufactured home located outside of a manufactured home
community or mobile home park shall be placed on a permanent frost-free
foundation system that meets the support and anchorage requirements as
recommended by the manufacturer or required by the State Building Code. The
foundation system must be visually compatible with permanent foundation systems
of surrounding residential structures. Any such home shall be installed in
accordance with the requirements of the State Building Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.10 and 414.28)
CHAPTER 150
BUILDING NUMBERING
 
150.01 Definitions        150.03 Building Numbering Plan
150.02 Owner Requirements  
 
150.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Owner” means the owner of the principal building.
   2.   “Principal building” means the main building on any lot or subdivision
thereof.
150.02   OWNER REQUIREMENTS.
Every owner shall comply with the following numbering requirements:
   1.   Obtain Building Number. The owner shall obtain the assigned number to
the principal building from the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
   2.   Display Building Number. The owner shall place or cause to be installed
and maintained on the principal building the assigned number in a conspicuous
place to the street in figures not less than two and one-half inches in height
and of a contrasting color with their background.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
   3.   Failure to Comply. If an owner refuses to number a building as herein
provided, or fails to do so for a period of 30 days after being notified in
writing by the City to do so, the City may proceed to place the assigned number
on the principal building and assess the costs against the property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
150.03   BUILDING NUMBERING PLAN.
Building numbers shall be assigned in accordance with the building numbering
plan on file in the office of the Clerk.
CHAPTER 151
TREES
151.01 Purpose                          151.09 Utilities
151.02 Definitions                      151.10 Public Tree Care
151.03 Planting Restrictions            151.11 Tree Topping
151.04 Removal of Trees Prohibited      151.12 Duty to Trim Trees
151.05 Street Tree Species to be        151.13 Removal of Dead or Diseased
Planted                                 Trees
151.06 Spacing                          151.14 Removal of Stumps
151.07 Distance from Curb and Sidewalk  151.15 Arborists Insurance Required
151.08 Distance from Street Corners and  
Fire Hydrants
 
151.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to beautify and preserve the appearance of the
City.
151.02   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Park trees” means trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody
vegetation in public parks and other areas owned by the City to which the
public has free access as a park.
   2.   “Street trees” means trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody
vegetation on land owned by the City and lying between property lines on either
side of all streets, avenues, or ways within the City.
151.03   PLANTING RESTRICTIONS.
No tree shall be planted in any street, avenue, or highway between the outer
line of the sidewalk and the curb where the curb line is established, or where
the curb line is not established, on a line 10 feet from the property line,
unless in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
151.04   REMOVAL OF TREES PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any person to remove any tree from public grounds without
written permission from the City Tree Board.
151.05   STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
The following list constitutes the official street tree species for the City.
No species other than those included in this list shall be planted as street
trees without written permission of the City Tree Board.
Small Trees Medium Trees Large Trees
Small Trees          Medium Trees                Large Trees
Flowering Crab       Green Ash                   Kentucky Coffeetree
Washington Hawthorne Hackberry                   Silver Maple
Bradford Pear        Thornless Honey Locust      Sugar Maple
Purpleleaf Plum      American Linden or Basswood Bur Oak
Redbud               Red Maple                   London Plantree Sycamore
European Mt. Ash     Norway Maple                Dawn Redwood
Saucer Magnolia      River Birch                 Red Oak
Amur Maple           Littleleaf Linden           Tulip Tree
                    Catalpa                     Scarlet Oak
                    Pin Oak                      
                    American Beech               
                    White Birch                  
 
151.06   SPACING.
The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three species size
classes, and no trees may be planted closer together than the following: small
trees, 30 feet; medium trees, 40 feet; and large trees, 50 feet; except in
special plantings designed or approved by a landscape architect or approved by
the City Tree Board.
151.07   DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curb lines and sidewalks will
be in accordance with the tree species size classes and no trees may be planted
closer to any curb or sidewalk than the following: small trees, two feet;
medium trees, three feet; and large trees, four feet.
151.08   DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIRE HYDRANTS.
No street tree shall be planted closer than 20 feet from any street corner,
measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines. No street
tree shall be planted closer than 10 feet from any fire hydrant.
151.09   UTILITIES.
No street trees other than those species listed as small trees may be planted
under or within 10 lateral feet of any overhead utility wire, or over or within
five lateral feet of any underground utility line, water line, or sewer line.
151.10   PUBLIC TREE CARE.
The City has the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove trees, plants, and
shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares, and
public grounds, as may be necessary to insure public safety or to preserve or
enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. The City Tree Board may
remove or cause or order to be removed any tree or part thereof which is in an
unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers,
electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements, or
is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest; provided, however,
such removal shall be conducted in accordance with tree removal policies of the
tree plan. This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by
adjacent property owners providing that the selection and location of said
trees is in accordance with this chapter.
151.11   TREE TOPPING.
It is unlawful as a normal practice for any person or City department to top
any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property. Topping is
defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches
in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal
canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other
causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other
pruning practices are impractical, may be exempted from this section at the
determination of the City Tree Board.
151.12   DUTY TO TRIM TREES.
The owner or agent of the abutting property shall keep the trees on public or
private property trimmed so that all branches will be at least eight feet above
the sidewalks and 15 feet above the surface of streets. If the abutting
property owner fails to trim the trees, the City may serve notice on the
abutting property owner requiring that such action be taken within five days.
If such action is not taken within that time, the City may perform the required
action and assess the costs against the abutting property for collection in the
same manner as a property tax. Except as allowed in this section, it is
unlawful for any property owner to trim or cut any tree in a street or public
place.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c, d, and e])
151.13   REMOVAL OF DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
The City has the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased trees on
private property within the City when such trees constitute a hazard to life
and property, or harbor insects or diseases which constitute a potential threat
to other trees within the City. The City Tree Board will notify in writing the
owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners, at their own
expense, within 30 days after the date of service of notice. In the event of
failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the City shall have the
authority to remove such trees and charge the cost of removal on the owner’s
property tax notice.
151.14   REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of the
ground so that the top of the stump does not project above the surface of the
ground.
151.15   ARBORISTS INSURANCE REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business or occupation of
pruning, treating, or removing street or park trees within the City without
filing evidence of possession of liability insurance in the minimum amounts of
$50,000.00 for bodily injury and $100,000.00 for property damage indemnifying
the City or any person injured or damaged resulting from the pursuit of such
endeavors as herein described.
CHAPTER 160
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
 
160.01 Definitions                       160.06 Standards for Floodplain
                                         (Overlay) District
160.02 Statutory Authority, Findings of  160.07 Appointment and Duties of Board
Fact, and Purpose                        of Appeals
160.03 General Provisions                160.08 Nonconforming Uses
160.04 Administration                    160.09 Penalties for Violation
160.05 Establishment of Zoning (Overlay) 160.10 Amendments
Districts
 
160.01   DEFINITIONS.
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   1.   “Appurtenant structure” means a structure which is on the same parcel
of the property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which
is incidental to the use of the principal structure.
   2.   “Base flood” means the flood having one percent chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year (also commonly referred to as the “100-year
flood”).
   3.   “Base flood elevation” (BFE) means the elevation floodwaters would
reach at a particular site during the occurrence of a base flood event.
   4.   “Basement” means any enclosed area of a structure which has its floor
or lowest level below ground level (subgrade) on all sides. Also see “lowest
floor.”
   5.   “Board of Appeals” means the Council of the City.
   6.   “Development” means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including but not limited to structures, mining, dredging, filling,
grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations or storage of equipment or
materials. “Development” does not include minor projects or routine maintenance
of existing structures and facilities, as defined in this section. It also does
not include gardening, plowing, and similar practices that do not involve
filling or grading.
   7.   “Enclosed area below lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest
enclosed area in a structure when all the following criteria are met:
      A.   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic
pressure during flood events with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions
of Section
160.06(5)(A) of this chapter; and
      B.   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, drywalled, etc.) and
used solely for low damage potential uses such as structure access, parking, or
storage; and
      C.   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater, furnace,
electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at least one
foot above the base flood elevation; and
      D.   The enclosed area is not a basement, as defined in this section.
   8.   “Existing construction” means any structure for which the start of
construction commenced before the effective date of the first floodplain
management regulations adopted by the community.
   9.   “Existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the
community.
   10.   “Expansion of existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means
the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed
(including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   11.   “Factory-built home” means any structure, designed for residential use
which is wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed or assembled
in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation, on a
building site. For the purpose of this chapter factory-built homes include
mobile homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes; and also includes
recreational vehicles which are placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days and not fully licensed for and ready for highway use.
   12.   “Factory-built home park or subdivision” means a parcel or contiguous
parcels of land divided into two or more factory-built home lots for sale or
lease.
   13.   “Five hundred year flood” means a flood, the magnitude of which has a
two-tenths percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year or
which, on average, will be equaled or exceeded at least once every 500 years.
   14.   “Flood” means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or
rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
   15.   “Flood Insurance Rate Map” (FIRM) means the official map prepared as
part of (but published separately from) the Flood Insurance Study which
delineates both the flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community.
   16.   “Flood Insurance Study” (FIS) means a report published by FEMA for a
community issued along with the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map(s). The
study contains such background data as the base flood discharge and water
surface elevations that were used to prepare the FIRM.
   17.   “Floodplain” means any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water as a result of a flood.
   18.   “Floodplain management” means an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use of
floodplains, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans, flood
control works, floodproofing, and floodplain management regulations.
   19.   “Floodproofing” means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, including utility and
sanitary facilities, which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to such
structures.
   20.   “Floodway” means the channel of a river or stream and those portions
of the floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to
carry and discharge flood waters or flood flows so that confinement of flood
flows to the floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot.
   21.   “Floodway fringe” means those portions of the special flood hazard
area outside the floodway.
   22.   “Highest adjacent grade” means the highest natural elevation of the
ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   23.   “Historic structure” means any structure that is:
      A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places,
maintained by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily determined by the
Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing of
the National Register;
      B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by
either:
         (1)   An approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or
         (2)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   24.   “Lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest enclosed area in a
structure including a basement except when the criteria listed in the
definition of “enclosed area below lowest floor” are met.
   25.   “Maximum damage potential development” means hospitals and like
institutions; buildings or building complexes containing documents, data, or
instruments of great public value; buildings or building complexes containing
materials dangerous to the public or fuel storage facilities; power
installations needed in emergency or other buildings or building complexes
similar in nature or use.
   26.   “Minor projects” means small development activities (except for
filling, grading, and excavating) valued at less than $500.00.
   27.   “New construction” (new structures, factory-built home parks) means
those structures or development for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the first floodplain management regulations
adopted by the community.
   28.   “New factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after
the effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by
the community.
   29.   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle which is:
      A.   Built on a single chassis;
      B.   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
      D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   30.   “Routine maintenance of existing structures and facilities” means
repairs necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that do
not trigger a building permit, provided they are not associated with a general
improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such repairs
include:
      A.   Normal maintenance of structures such as re-roofing, replacing
roofing tiles and replacing siding.
      B.   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting,
cabinets, counter tops and similar finish work.
      C.   Basement sealing.
      D.   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes.
      E.   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating, or air
conditioning systems and repairing wells or septic systems.
   31.   “Special Flood Hazard Area” (SFHA) means the land within a community
subject to the base flood. This land is identified on the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map as Zone A, A1-30, AE, AH, AO, AR, or A99.
   32.   “Start of construction” includes substantial improvement, and means
the date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement or permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as pouring of a slab or footings, the installation of pile, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a factory-built home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory structures such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the structure, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the structure.
   33.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected on the ground or
attached to the ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, factories,
sheds, cabins, factory-built homes, storage tanks, grain storage facilities, or
other similar uses.
   34.   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a
structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage
condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred. Volunteer labor and donated materials shall be
included in the estimated cost of repair.
   35.   “Substantial improvement” means any improvement to a structure which
satisfies either of the following criteria:
      A.   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure
either:
         (1)   Before the start of construction of the improvement; or
         (2)   If the structure has been substantially damaged and is being
restored, before the damage occurred.
   The term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a
structure to correct existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or
safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code
enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living
conditions. The term also does not include any alteration of a historic
structure, provided the alteration will not preclude the structure’s
designation as a historic structure.
      B.   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a structure
by 25 percent or more. All additions constructed after the effective date of
the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the community shall be
added to any proposed addition in determining whether the total increase in
original floor space would exceed 25 percent.
   36.   “Variance” means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of
the floodplain management regulations.
   37.   “Violation” means the failure of a structure or other development to
be fully compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
160.02   STATUTORY AUTHORITY, FINDINGS OF FACT, AND PURPOSE.
   1.   Statutory Authority. The Legislature of the State has, in Chapter 414
of the Code of Iowa, as amended, delegated the power to cities to enact zoning
regulations to secure safety from flood and to promote health and the general
welfare.
   2.   Findings of Fact.
      A.   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic
inundation which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare of
the community.
      B.   These flood losses, hazards, and related adverse effects are caused
by:
         (1)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood
damages which create hazardous conditions as a result of being inadequately
elevated or otherwise protected from flooding; and
         (2)   The cumulative effect of obstructions on the floodplain causing
increases in flood heights and velocities.
      C.   This chapter relies upon engineering methodology for analyzing flood
hazards which is consistent with the standards established by the Department of
Natural Resources.
   3.   Statement of Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to protect and
preserve the rights, privileges, and property of the City and its residents and
to preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, and comfort and
convenience of its residents by minimizing those flood losses described in
Subsection 2(A) of this section with provisions designed to:
      A.   Reserve sufficient floodplain area for the conveyance of flood flows
so that flood heights and velocities will not be increased substantially.
      B.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities.
      C.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction or substantial improvement.
      D.   Protect individuals from buying lands which may not be suited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard.
      E.   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance
Program.
160.03   GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   1.   Lands to Which Chapter Applies. The provisions of this chapter shall
apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the City which are located within
the boundaries of the Floodplain (Overlay) District as established in Section
160.05.
   2.   Establishment of Official Floodplain Zoning Map. The Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM) for Calhoun County and Incorporated Areas, City of Rockwell
City, Panels 19025C0192B, 0194B, 0211B, and 0213B, dated April 19, 2016, which
were prepared as part of the Flood Insurance Study for Calhoun County are
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be the Official Floodplain Zoning
Map. The Calhoun County Flood Insurance Study is hereby adopted by reference
and is made a part of this chapter for the purpose of administering floodplain
management regulations.
   3.   Rules for Interpretation of Floodplain (Overlay) District. The
boundaries of the Floodplain (Overlay) District areas shall be determined by
scaling distances on the official Flood Insurance Rate Map. When an
interpretation is needed as to the exact location of a boundary, the
Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The Board of Appeals
shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged that there is an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination made by the Administrator in the
enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   4.   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be used, and no
structure shall be located, extended, converted, or structurally altered,
without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   5.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. It is not intended by this chapter
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent
with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   6.   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the provisions
of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by State statutes.
   7.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The standards required by this
chapter are considered reasonable for regulatory purposes. This chapter does
not imply that areas outside the designated Floodplain (Overlay) District areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the City, or any officer or employee thereof, for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
   8.   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
160.04   ADMINISTRATION.
   1.   Appointment, Duties, and Responsibilities of Administrator.
      A.   The Zoning Administrator is hereby appointed to implement and
administer the provisions of this chapter and will herein be referred to as the
Administrator.
      B.   Duties and responsibilities of the Administrator shall include (but
not necessarily be limited to) the following:
         (1)   Review all Floodplain Development Permit Applications to ensure
that the provisions of this chapter will be satisfied.
         (2)   Review Floodplain Development Applications to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from federal, State, and local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Department of
Natural Resources for floodplain construction.
         (3)   Record and maintain a record of:
            a.   The elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum
1988) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures; or
            b.   The elevation to which new or substantially improved
structures have been floodproofed.
         (4)   Notify adjacent communities, counties, and the Department of
Natural Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a
watercourse and submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
         (5)   Keep a record of all permits, appeals, and such other
transactions and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this
chapter.
         (6)   Submit to the Federal Insurance Administrator an annual report
concerning the community’s participation, utilizing the annual report form
supplied by the Federal Insurance Administrator.
         (7)   Notify the Federal Insurance Administrator of any annexations or
modifications to the community’s boundaries.
         (8)   Review subdivision proposals to ensure such proposals are
consistent with the purpose of this chapter and advise the Board of Appeals of
potential conflict.
         (9)   Maintain the accuracy of the community’s Flood Insurance Rate
Maps when:
            a.   Development placed within the floodway results in any of the
following:
               i.   An increase in the base flood elevations; or
               ii.   Alteration to the floodway boundary.
            b.   Development placed in Zones A, AE, AH, and A1-30 that does not
include a designated floodway that will cause a rise of more than one foot in
the base elevation; or
            c.   Development relocates or alters the channel.
         Within six months of the completion of the development, the applicant
shall submit to FEMA all scientific and technical data necessary for a Letter
of Map Revision.
         (10)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with the
standards of this chapter.
         (11)   Forward all requests for variances to the Board of Appeals for
consideration. Ensure all requests include the information ordinarily submitted
with applications as well as any additional information deemed necessary to the
Board of Appeals.
      C.   Floodplain Development Permit.
         (1)   Permit Required. A Floodplain Development Permit issued by the
Administrator shall be secured prior to any floodplain development (any manmade
change to improved and unimproved real estate, including but not limited to
buildings or other structures, mining, filling, grading, paving, storage of
materials and equipment, excavation, or drilling operations), including the
placement of factory-built homes.
         (2)   Application for Permit. Application shall be made on forms
furnished by the Administrator and shall include the following:
            a.   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is to be made.
            b.   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be
done (i.e., lot, block, track, street address, or similar description) that
will readily identify and locate the work to be done.
            c.   Location and dimensions of all structures and additions.
            d.   Indication of the use or occupancy for which the proposed work
is intended.
            e.   Elevation of the base flood.
            f.   Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988)
of the lowest floor (including basement) of structures or of the level to which
a structure is to be floodproofed.
            g.   For structures being improved or rebuilt, the estimated cost
of improvements and market value of the structure prior to the improvements.
            h.   Such other information as the Administrator deems reasonably
necessary (e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of this chapter.
         (3)   Action on Permit Application. The Administrator shall, within a
reasonable time, make a determination as to whether the proposed floodplain
development meets the applicable standards of this chapter and shall approve or
disapprove the application. For disapprovals, the applicant shall be informed,
in writing, of the specific reasons therefore. The Administrator shall not
issue permits for variances except as directed by the Board of Appeals.
         (4)   Construction and Use to Be as Provided in Application and Plans.
Floodplain Development Permits based on the basis of approved plans and
applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in
such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement, or
construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. The applicant shall be
required to submit certification by a professional engineer or land surveyor,
as appropriate, registered in the State, that the finished fill, structure
floor elevations, floodproofing, or other flood protection measures were
accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the
use or occupancy of any structure.
160.05   ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING (OVERLAY) DISTRICTS.
The floodplain areas within the jurisdiction of this chapter are hereby divided
into the following districts:
   1.   Floodplain (Overlay) District – those areas identified as Zone A on the
Official Floodplain Zoning Map. The boundaries shall be as shown on the
Official Floodplain Zoning Map. Within these districts, all uses not allowed as
permitted uses are prohibited unless a variance to the terms of this chapter is
granted after due consideration by the Board of Appeals.
160.06   STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAIN (OVERLAY) DISTRICT.
   1.   Permitted Uses.
      A.   All development within the Floodplain District shall be permitted to
the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance (or underlying
zoning district) and provided they meet applicable performance standards of the
Floodplain District.
      B.   Any development which involves placement of structures, factory-
built homes, fill or other obstructions, storage of materials or equipment,
excavation, or alteration of a watercourse shall be reviewed by the Department
of Natural Resources to determine:
         (1)   Whether the land involved is either wholly or partly within the
floodway or floodway fringe; and
         (2)   The base flood elevation.
   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the Department of Natural
Resources with sufficient technical information to make the determination.
      C.   Review by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources is not required
for the proposed construction of new or replacement bridges or culverts where:
      (1)   The bridge or culvert is located on a stream that drains less than
two square miles, and
      (2)   The bridge or culvert is not associated with a channel modification
that constitutes a channel change as specified in 567-71.2(2), Iowa
Administrative Code.
   2.   Performance Standards. All development must be consistent with the need
to minimize flood damage and meet the following applicable performance
standards. Where base flood elevations and floodway data have not been provided
in the Flood Insurance Study, the Iowa Department of Natural Resources shall be
contacted to compute such data. The applicant will be responsible for providing
the Department of Natural Resources with sufficient technical information to
make such determination. All development shall:
      A.   Be designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement.
      B.   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      C.   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant
to flood damage.
   3.   Residential Structures. All new or substantially improved residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated a minimum
of one foot above the base flood elevation. Construction shall be upon
compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no lower than one foot above the
base flood elevation and extend at such elevation at least 18 feet beyond the
limits of any structure erected thereon. Alternate methods of elevating (such
as piers or extended foundations) may be allowed where existing topography,
street grades, or other factors preclude elevating by fill. In such cases, the
methods used must be adequate to support the structure as well as withstand the
various forces and hazards associated with flooding. All new residential
structures located in areas that would become isolated due to flooding of
surrounding ground shall be provided with a means of access that will be
passable by wheeled vehicles during the base flood. However, this criterion
shall not apply where the Administrator determines there is sufficient flood
warning time for the protection of life and property. When estimating flood
warning time, consideration shall be given to the criteria listed in 567-75.2
(3), Iowa Administrative Code.
   4.   Nonresidential Structures. All new or substantially improved
nonresidential structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation, or together with
attendant utility and sanitary systems, be floodproofed to such a level. When
floodproofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in the State
shall certify that the floodproofing methods used are adequate to withstand the
flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact, uplift forces, and other factors
associated with the base flood; and that the structure, below the base flood
elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water. A record of the certification indicating the specific elevation (in
relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the Administrator.
   5.   All New and Substantially Improved Structures.
      A.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (not including
basements) that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
         (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
         (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      Such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles, building access,
and low damage potential storage. New and substantially improved structures
must be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
      B.   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed with
electric meter, electrical service panel box, hot water heater, heating, air
conditioning, ventilation equipment (including ductwork), and other similar
machinery and equipment elevated (or, in the case of nonresidential structures,
optionally floodproofed to) a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation.
      C.   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed with
plumbing, gas lines, water meters, gas meters, and other similar service
utilities either elevated (or in the case of nonresidential structures,
optionally floodproofed to) a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation or designed to be watertight and withstand inundation to such a
level.
   6.   Factory-Built Homes.
      A.   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including
those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the structure
is a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation.
      B.   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including
those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be
anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Anchorage systems
may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to
ground anchors as required by the State Building Code.
   7.   Utility and Sanitary Systems.
      A.   On-site wastewater disposal and water supply systems shall be
located or designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the
system during flooding.
      B.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system as well as
the discharge of effluent into flood waters. Wastewater treatment facilities
(other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a level of flood protection
equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood elevation.
      C.   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system. Water
supply treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with
a level of protection equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood
elevation.
      D.   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.
   8.   Storage of Equipment and Materials. Storage of materials and equipment
that are flammable, explosive, or injurious to human, animal, or plant life is
prohibited unless elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation. Other material and equipment must either be similarly elevated or:
      A.   Not be subject to major flood damage and be anchored to prevent
movement due to flood waters; or
      B.   Be readily removable from the area within the time available after
flood warning.
   9.   Flood Control Structures. Flood control structural works such as
levees, flood walls, etc. shall provide, at a minimum, protection from the base
flood with a minimum of three feet of design freeboard and shall provide for
adequate interior drainage. In addition, the Department of Natural Resources
shall approve structural flood control works.
   10.   Watercourse Alterations. Watercourse alterations or relocations must
be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion. In addition, the Department of Natural Resources must
approve such alterations or relocations.
   11.   Subdivisions. Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks and
subdivisions) shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
Development associated with subdivision proposals (including the installation
of public utilities) shall meet the applicable performance standards of this
chapter. Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide all
lots with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during
the base flood. Proposals for subdivisions greater than five acres or 50 lots
(whichever is less) shall include base flood elevation data for those areas
located within the Floodplain (Overlay) District.
   12.   Accessory Structures to Residential Uses.
      A.   Detached garages, sheds, and similar structures that are incidental
to a residential use are exempt from the base flood elevation requirements
where the following criteria are satisfied:
         (1)   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential. Its size shall not exceed 600 square feet in size. Those portions of
the structure located less than one foot above the base flood elevation must be
constructed of flood-resistant materials.
         (2)   The structure shall be used solely for low flood damage
potential purposes such as vehicle parking and limited storage. The structure
shall not be used for human habitation.
         (3)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
         (4)   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement which may result in damage to other structures.
         (5)   The structure’s service facilities such as electrical and
heating equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed to at least one foot above
the base flood elevation.
         (6)   The structure’s walls shall include openings that satisfy the
provisions of Section
160.06(5)(A).
      B.   Exemption from the base flood elevation requirements for such a
structure may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance coverage of
the structure and its contents.
   13.   Recreational Vehicles.
      A.   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the requirements of Section
160.06(6) regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built homes when the
following criteria are satisfied.
         (1)   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for less
than 180 consecutive days, and
         (2)   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
      B.   Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more than 180
consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must satisfy requirements of
Section 160.06(6) regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built homes.
   14.   Pipeline Crossings. Pipeline river and stream crossings shall be
buried in the streambed and banks, or otherwise sufficiently protected to
prevent rupture due to channel degradation and meandering.
   15.   Maximum Damage Potential Development. All new or substantially
improved maximum damage potential development shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated a minimum of one foot above the elevation of the
500-year flood, or together with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be
floodproofed to such a level. When floodproofing is utilized, a professional
engineer registered in the State shall certify that the floodproofing methods
used are adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact,
uplift forces, and other factors associated with the two-tenths percent annual
chance flood; and that the structure, below the two-tenths percent annual
chance flood elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water. A record of the certification indicating the specific
elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Administrator. Where a
two-tenths percent chance flood elevation data has not been provided in the
Flood Insurance Study, the Iowa Department of Natural Resources shall be
contacted to compute such data. The applicant will be responsible for providing
the Department of Natural Resources with sufficient technical information to
make such determinations.
160.07   APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES OF BOARD OF APPEALS.
   1.   Appointment and Duties of Board of Appeals. A Board of Appeals is
hereby established which shall hear and decide:
      A.   Appeals; and
      B.   Requests for variances to the provisions of this chapter, and shall
take any other action which is required of the Board.
   2.   Appeals. Where it is alleged that there is any error in any order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative official in
the enforcement of this chapter, the aggrieved party may appeal such action.
The notice of appeal shall be filed with the Board of Appeals and with the
official from whom the appeal is taken and shall set forth the specific reason
for the appeal. The official from whom the appeal is taken shall transmit to
the Board of Appeals all the documents constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken.
   3.   Variance. The Board of Appeals may authorize upon request in specific
cases such variances from the terms of this chapter that will not be contrary
to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary
hardship. Variances granted must meet the following applicable standards.
      A.   Variances shall only be granted upon:
         (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (3)   A determination that the granting of the variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local codes or ordinances.
      B.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood would result. Consideration of
the effects of any development on flood levels shall be based upon the
assumption that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly
situated lands.
      C.   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      D.   In cases where the variance involves a lower level of flood
protection for structures than what is ordinarily required by this chapter, the
applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature of the Administrator
that:
         (1)   The issuance of a variance will result in increased premium
rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25.00 for $100.00 of
insurance coverage; and
         (2)   Such construction increases risks to life and property.
      E.   All variances granted shall have the concurrence or approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
   4.   Hearings and Decisions of the Board of Appeals.
      A.   Hearings. Upon the filing with the Board of an appeal or a request
for a variance, the Board shall hold a public hearing. The Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the hearing and give public notice thereof, as well as due
notice to parties in interest. At the hearing, any party may appear in person
or by agent or attorney and present written or oral evidence. The Board may
require the appellant or applicant to provide such information as is reasonably
deemed necessary and may request the technical assistance or evaluation of a
professional engineer or other expert person or agency, including the
Department of Natural Resources.
      B.   Decisions. The Board shall arrive at a decision on an appeal or
variance within a reasonable time. In passing upon an appeal, the Board may, so
long as such action is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter,
reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination appealed from, and it shall make its decision, in
writing, setting forth the findings of fact and the reasons for its decision.
In granting a variance, the Board shall consider such factors as contained in
this section and all other relevant sections of this chapter and may prescribe
such conditions as contained in Section
160.07(4)(B)(2).
         (1)   Factors Upon Which the Decision of the Board Shall Be Based. In
passing upon applications for variances, the Board shall consider all relevant
factors specified in other sections of this chapter and:
            a.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights
or velocities caused by encroachments.
            b.   The danger that materials may be swept on to other land or
downstream to the injury of others.
            c.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the
ability of these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary
conditions.
            d.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents
to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
            e.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the City.
            f.   The requirements of the facility for a floodplain location.
            g.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to
flooding for the proposed use.
            h.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing
development and development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
            i.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for the area.
            j.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
            k.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood water expected at the site.
            l.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer,
gas, electrical, and water systems), facilities, streets, and bridges.
            m.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this
chapter.
         (2)   Conditions Attached to Variances. Upon consideration of the
factors listed above, the Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose of this chapter. Such
conditions may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
            a.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
            b.   Limitation of periods of use and operation.
            c.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
            d.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes,
levees, and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the
Department of Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative
to achieving the purpose of this chapter.
            e.   Floodproofing measures shall be designed consistent with the
flood protection elevation for the particular area, flood velocities, duration,
rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, and other factors associated
with the regulatory flood. The Board shall require that the applicant submit a
plan or document certified by a registered professional engineer that the
floodproofing measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection
elevation and associated flood factors for the particular area.
   5.   Appeals to the Court. Any person or persons, jointly or severally,
aggrieved by any decision of the Board may present to a court of record a
petition, duly verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole
or in part, specifying the grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be
presented to the court within 30 days after the filing of the decision in the
office of the Board.
160.08   NONCONFORMING USES.
   1.   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of the ordinance codified in this chapter, but
which is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, may be
continued subject to the following conditions:
      A.   If such use is discontinued for six consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
      B.   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
      C.   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50
percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred, unless
it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
State or local health, sanitary, building, or safety codes or regulations, or
the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation.
   2.   Except as provided in Section
160.08(1)(B), any use which has been permitted as a variance shall be
considered a conforming use.
160.09   PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
the requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variances) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any
person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $500.00 or
imprisoned for not more than 30 days. Each day such violation continues shall
be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the
City from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy
violation.
160.10   AMENDMENTS.
The regulations and standards set forth in this chapter may from time to time
be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed. No amendment, supplement,
change, or modification shall be undertaken without prior approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
CHAPTER 165
ZONING REGULATIONS
165.01 Short Title and Jurisdiction     165.14 Central Commercial District (C-
                                        1)
165.02 Interpretation of Regulations    165.15 Highway Commercial District (C-
                                        2)
165.03 Definitions                      165.16 General Industrial District (M-
                                        1)
165.04 Districts Established            165.17 Additional Area and Height
                                        Regulations
165.05 Boundaries and Official Map      165.18 Off-Street Parking
165.06 Interpretation of District       165.19 Off-Street Loading Requirements
Boundaries
165.07 Annexed Territory                165.20 Signs
165.08 General Regulations              165.21 Special Exception Uses
165.09 Agricultural District (A-1)      165.22 Nonconforming Uses
165.10 One- and- Two-Family Residential 165.23 Administration
District (R-1)
165.11 Multi-Family Residential         165.24 Violation and Penalty
District (R-2)
165.12 Mobile Home Park District (R-3)  165.25 Board of Adjustment
165.13 Planned Residential District (R- 165.26 Changes and Amendments
4)
 
165.01   SHORT TITLE AND JURISDICTION.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the “Zoning
Ordinance of the City of Rockwell City.” This chapter is adopted by the City to
govern the zoning of all lands within the corporate limits of the City.
165.02   INTERPRETATION OF REGULATIONS.
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall
be held to be minimum requirements. Where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction than is imposed or required by other provisions of law, other
rules, regulations, or ordinances, the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
165.03   DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are hereby defined.
The words “used” or “occupied” include the words “intended, designed or
arranged to be used or occupied.”
   1.   Words beginning with “A.”
      A.   “Accessory use or structure” means a use or structure on the same
lot with and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to the
principal use or structure.
      B.   “Alley” means a public or private thoroughfare which affords only a
secondary means of access to abutting property.
      C.   “Apartment” means a single room or set of rooms occupied as a
dwelling (including independent sleeping, sanitary, and cooking facilities)
which is part of multi-family structure.
      D.   “Awning” or “canopy” means a roof-like cover extending over or
before a place as a shelter. An awning shall have a pedestrian head clearance
of at least seven feet.
   2.   Words beginning with “B.”
      A.   “Basement” means a story having more than one-half of its height
below grade. A basement is not counted as a story for the purpose of height
regulations.
      B.   “Billboard” means a structure, regardless of the material used, that
is erected, maintained, or used for public display of posters, painted signs,
or wall signs, whether the structure be placed on the wall or painted itself,
pictures or other pictorial reading material which advertise a business or
attraction which is not carried on, manufactured, grown, or sold on the
premises where said sign or billboard is located.
      C.   “Block” means property abutting on at least one street and lying
within two or more intersecting or parallel streets or unsubdivided acreage or
railroad right-of-way.
      D.   “Boarding, rooming, or lodging house” or “bed and breakfast” means a
building other than a hotel where for compensation, and by arrangement, lodging
is provided.
      E.   “Buildable area” means the portion of a lot remaining after required
yards have been provided.
      F.   “Building” means a structure designed or intended for the support,
enclosure, shelter, or protection of persons, animals, or property.
      G.   “Building, height of” means the vertical distance from the average
natural grade at the building line, to the highest point of the coping of a
flat roof, or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the average height of
the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
      H.   “Business,” “commercial,” and “manufacturing” means the engaging in
the purchase, sale, or exchange of goods or services, or the operation for
profit of offices or recreational amusement enterprises.
   3.   Words beginning with “C.”
      A.   “Carport” means space for the housing or storage of motor vehicles
and enclosed on not more than two sides by walls. A carport may be attached to
another building or be an accessory structure.
      B.   “Club” or “lodge” (private) means an association of persons for the
promotion of a nonprofit objective, who are bona fide members paying annual
dues, which owns, hires, or leases a building, or portion thereof, the use of
such premises being restricted to members and their guests. It shall be
permissible to serve food and meals to members and their guests on such
premises provided adequate dining room space and kitchen facilities are
available and are operated in compliance with State and municipal laws.
   4.   Words beginning with “D.”
      A.   “Day nursery” or “nursery school” means any private agency,
institution, establishment, or place which provides, for compensation,
supplemental parental care or educational work, other than overnight lodging,
for six or more unrelated children.
      B.   “Driveway” means a traffic way providing access for vehicles to a
building on property abutting a public street.
      C.   “Dwelling” means any building or portion thereof designed or used
exclusively for residential purposes, but not including a tent or seasonal
trailer. A mobile home which has been converted to real estate and is greater
in width than 20 feet and has a permanent foundation and is attached to normal
City utilities, is considered a dwelling for purposes of this chapter.
      D.   “Dwelling, multiple” means a residence designed for the occupancy by
three or more families, with separate housekeeping and cooking facilities for
each.
      E.   “Dwelling, single-family” means a detached residence designed for or
occupied by only one family and contains independent cooking facilities for the
family.
      F.   “Dwelling, two-family” means a residence designed for or occupied by
two families, with separate entrances, housekeeping, and cooking facilities for
each.
   5.   Words beginning with “E.”
      A.   “Essential services” means the erection, construction, alteration,
or maintenance by developers, public utilities, or governmental agencies of
underground or overhead gas, telephone, television, electrical, wastewater
collection, water transmission or distribution systems, including poles, wires,
mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, traffic signals, hydrants, and
other similar equipment and accessories in connection therewith reasonably
necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by such public utilities or
governmental agencies or for public health or safety or general welfare.
   6.   Words beginning with “F.”
      A.   “Family” means one or more persons occupying a dwelling and living
as a single housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a
boarding or lodging house, nursing or convalescent home, hotel or motel, as
herein defined.
      B.   “Farm/Agriculture” means an area which is used for the growing of
the usual farm products such as vegetables, fruits, and grains and their
storage on the area, as well as for the raising thereon of the usual farm
poultry and farm animals, but not including the concentrated feeding of animals
within a confined area. The definition includes the operating of such area for
one or more of the above uses with the necessary accessory uses for treating or
storing the produce, provided, however, that the operation of any such
accessory uses shall be secondary to that of the normal farming activity and
such accessory uses do not include the feeding of garbage or offal to swine or
other animals.
      C.   “Fence” means an erection intended to prevent escape or intrusion or
to mark a boundary. For purposes of this chapter, a fence is composed of posts,
wire, or boards. Within a required front yard, fences shall not exceed 48
inches in height and shall not be opaque.
   7.   Words beginning with “G.”
      A.   “Garage, commercial” means a building, or portion thereof, designed,
intended, or used for the equipping, servicing, selling, hiring, storing, care,
or repair of motor vehicles, and which is operated for commercial purposes.
      B.   “Garage, private” means an enclosed structure intended for and used
for the parking of the private motor vehicles of the families resident upon the
premises.
      C.   “Gasoline service stations” means any building or premises used for
the retail sale of liquid fuels, oils, and other items customarily associated
with the sale of such products, but not for the purpose of making other than
minor repairs. When the dispensing, retail sale, or offering for retail sale is
incidental to the conduct of a commercial garage, the premises shall be
classified as a commercial garage.
      D.   “Grade” means the average level of the finished surface of the
ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the building.
      E.   “Granny flat” means a temporary accessory residential structure
placed on a residential zoned lot and occupied by relatives of the owners of
the lot on which it is located.
   8.   Words beginning with “H.”
      A.   “Home occupation” means an occupation or a profession conducted in a
dwelling unit, which:
         (1)   Is customarily carried on in a dwelling unit or accessory
buildings, and
         (2)   Is carried on by a member of the family residing in the dwelling
unit, and
         (3)   Is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling
unit for residential purposes, and
         (4)   Does not employ more than two persons outside the immediate
family, and
         (5)   Has no exterior display, no exterior storage of materials, and
no other exterior indication of the home occupation or variation from the
residential character of the principal building, other than one exterior sign
mounted flush with the face of the building, which sign shall not exceed four
square feet in area, and
         (6)   Does not occupy more than 30 percent of the area of the dwelling
unit, and
         (7)   Produces no offensive noise, vibration, smoke, excessive
congestion, dust, odors, heat, or glare rendering such building or premises
objectionable or detrimental to the residential character of the neighborhood.
   9.   Words beginning with “I.”
   10.   Words beginning with “J.”
      A.   “Junk yard” means any area where waste, discarded or salvaged
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, baled or packed, disassembled, kept,
stored or handled, including house wrecking yards, used lumber yards and places
or yards for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel materials
and equipment; but not including areas where such uses are conducted entirely
within a completely enclosed building, and not including automobile, tractor,
or machinery wrecking and used parts yards, and the processing of used,
discarded, or salvaged materials as part of manufacturing operations. Where
permitted by district regulations, salvage shall either be located within a
rear yard or fully enclosed within a building. In addition, junk yards located
within 1,000 feet of a State, federal, or County highway shall obtain a current
“recycler’s license” from the Iowa Department of Transportation. Junk yards
located over 1,000 feet from a State, federal, or County highway shall be
screened from view from a public street by the same screening regulations as
provided by the Iowa Department of Transportation when granting a “recycler’s
license.”
      B.   “Junk vehicle” or “junk machinery” means any vehicle or portion
thereof not in running condition or not licensed for the current year as
provided by law and not legally placed in storage with the County Treasurer, or
any other vehicle or machinery which, because of its defective or obsolete
condition, or rotted, rusted, or loose parts, or in any other way constitutes a
threat to the health and safety of the citizens and is a nuisance within the
meaning of Section 657.1 of the Code of Iowa.
   11.   Words beginning with “K.”
      A.   “Kennel, dog” means any premises on which four or more dogs, six
months old or older, are kept.
   12.   Words beginning with “L.”
      A.   “Lot” means a parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet
minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage, and area to provide such yards
and other open space as herein required. Such lot shall have frontage on a
public street and may consist of:
         (1)   A single lot of record;
         (2)   A portion of a lot of record;
         (3)   A combination of complete lots of record; of complete lots of
record and portions of lots of record; or of portions of lots of record; and
         (4)   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds; provided that in
no case of division or combination shall any residual lot or parcel be created
which does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
      B.   “Lot area” means the area of a horizontal plane bounded by the
front, side, and rear lot lines.
      C.   “Lot, corner” means a lot fronting on two intersecting streets.
      D.   “Lot depth” means the mean horizontal distance between the front and
rear lot lines.
      E.   “Lot, interior” means a lot other than a corner lot.
      F.   “Lot lines” means the lines bounding a lot.
      G.   “Lot line, front,” in the case of an interior lot, abutting on only
one street, means the street line of such lot. In the case of any other lot,
the front lot line shall be considered as the line adjacent to the street upon
which the lot has its least dimension.
      H.   “Lot line, rear” means that boundary line which is opposite and most
distant from the front line.
      I.   “Lot line, side” means any boundary line not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
      J.   “Lot of record” means a lot which is a part of a subdivision
recorded in the office of the County Recorder, or a lot or parcel described by
metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
      K.   “Lot, through” means an interior lot having frontage on two
parallel, or approximately parallel, streets and also known as a double fronted
lot.
      L.   “Lot width” means the width of a lot as measured at the required
front yard setback line.
   13.   Words beginning with “M.”
      A.   “Mobile home” means a vehicle used, or so originally constructed as
to permit being used, as conveyance upon the public streets or highways and
duly licensed as such, and constructed in such a manner as will permit
occupancy thereof for human habitation, dwellings, or sleeping places for one
or more persons, provided further that this definition refers to and includes
all portable contrivances used or intended to be used generally for living and
sleeping quarters and which is capable of being moved by its own power, towed,
or transported by another vehicle. Mobile homes of less than 20 feet in width
shall be located within a mobile home park. (See also definition for
“dwelling.”)
      B.   “Mobile home converted to real estate” means a mobile home, at least
20 feet in width, which has been attached to a permanent foundation on real
estate, which has had the vehicular frame destroyed rendering it impossible to
reconvert to a mobile home, and which has been inspected by the assessor, the
mobile home title, registration, and license plates collected from the owner
and the property entered on the tax rolls of the County.
      C.   “Mobile home park” or “trailer park” means any lot or portion of a
lot upon which one or more mobile homes or trailers for dwelling or sleeping
purposes are located regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such
accommodations.
      D.   “Motel,” “motor court,” “motor lodge,” or “tourist court” means any
building or group of buildings containing guest rooms primarily for temporary
occupancy, and laid out to provide space for parking vehicles used by the
traveling public. Such building or group of buildings may include quarters for
the use of the operating personnel.
   14.   Words beginning with “N.”
      A.   “Nursing home” (including convalescent and group homes) means a
building or structure having accommodations and where care is provided for
invalid, infirm, aged, convalescent, or physically disabled or injured persons,
but not including penal or disciplinary cases.
   15.   Words beginning with “O.”
   16.   Words beginning with “P.”
      A.   “Parking space” means a surfaced area of not less than 180 square
feet plus necessary maneuvering space for the parking of a motor vehicle. Space
for maneuvering, incidental to parking or unparking, shall not encroach upon
any public right-of-way.
      B.   “Porch, unenclosed” means a roofed projection which is partially
enclosed by a building or siding material other than meshed screens.
      C.   “Principal use” means the main use of land or structures as
distinguished from an accessory use.
      D.   “Professional office” means any building or part thereof used by one
or more persons engaged in the practice of law, accounting, architecture,
medicine, engineering, or other occupation customarily considered as a
profession.
   17.   Words beginning with “Q.”
   18.   Words beginning with “R.”
      A.   “Roadside stand” means a temporary structure, unenclosed, and so
designed and constructed so the structure is easily portable or can be readily
moved, and which is adjacent to a road and used for a sale of farm products
produced or grown on the premises.
   19.   Words beginning with “S.”
      A.   “Shouses” means a structure more than 50 percent garage, but no less
than 30 percent living quarters. Any residential structure meeting the
definition of a shouse shall meet the following criteria:
         (1)   Shouses shall be structurally anchored to a permanent foundation
and said foundation shall meet local, State, or federal building codes;
         (2)   Once a shouse has been established, the overall structure,
including the shop area, will no longer be considered an agricultural structure
or building;
         (3)   Shouse homes shall have not less than 30 percent of gross floor
area;
         (4)   Habitable rooms shall have not less than seven feet in any
horizontal dimension;
         (5)   Ceiling height effect on room area:
            a.   Portions of a sloped ceiling measuring less than five feet or
a furred ceiling measuring less than seven feet from the finished floor;
            b.   The finished ceiling shall not be considered as contributing
to the minimum required habitable area for the room;
         (6)   Ceiling heights shall be a minimum of seven feet in habitable
spaces, hallways, bathrooms, and toilet rooms;
         (7)   Every dwelling shall have toilet facilities - water closet,
lavatory, and a bathtub or shower;
         (8)   Shouses shall have a kitchen area and sink;
         (9)   The unit shall provide heating and cooling systems as required
by local, State, or federal codes;
         (10)   All electrical shall be in compliance with all local, State, or
federal electrical codes;
         (11)   The unit shall meet all egress requirements found in local,
State, or federal codes;
         (12)   Any and all extensions off the shouse shall be structurally
designed regarding all attachments and cantilevers;
         (13)   All modifications needed to convert the machine shed into a
dwelling unit shall be required to have all modifications designed and
engineered by a licensed architect or engineering;
         (14)   All items requiring the structure to be structurally designed
or modified shall be sealed by a structural engineer;
         (15)   All structures shall meet the maximum coverage on a lot as any
ordinary single-family dwelling;
         (16)   Firewall. From bottom plate to top rafter - two layers of five-
eighths sheet rock or equivalent between garage and residence;
         (17)   Strongly suggest a storm shelter;
         (18)   Geothermal. Clearly marked - same lot line rules for structure;
         (19)   Must have Council approval.
      B.   “Sign area” means the surface area of a sign shall be computed as
including the entire area within a regular geometric form or combination of
such forms comprising all of the display area of the sign and including all of
the elements of the matter displayed. Frames and structural members not bearing
advertising matter shall not be included in computation of surface area.
      C.   “Sign, exterior” means a sign which directs attention to a business,
profession, service, product, or activity sold or offered upon the premises
where such sign is located. An exterior sign may be attached flat against a
building or structure, painted on the building or structure, projecting out
from a building or structure, or erected upon the roof of a building or
structure.
      D.   “Sign, free standing or post” means any sign erected or affixed in a
rigid manner to any pole or post, and which carries any advertisement strictly
incidental and subordinate to a lawful use of the premises on which it is
located, including signs, or sign devices indicating the business transacted,
services rendered, or goods sold or produced on the premises by an occupant
thereof.
      E.   “Split level” means a story having not more than one-half of its
height below grade. A split-level story is counted as a story for purposes of
height regulations.
      F.   “Stable” means an accessory structure including, but not limited to,
a corral or paddock for the keeping of hoofed animals owned or controlled by
the occupants of the premises and which are kept for pets, board, propagation,
sale, or lease.
      G.   “Story” means that portion of a building, other than a basement,
included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor above
it, or if there is no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the
ceiling next above it.
      H.   “Story, half” means a space under a sloping roof which has the line
of intersection of roof decking and wall face not more than four feet above the
top floor level.
      I.   “Street line” means the right-of-way line of a street, road, or
highway.
      J.   “Street, public” means a public thoroughfare more than 20 feet in
width.
      K.   “Structural alteration” means any replacement or changes in the type
of construction or in the supporting members of a building, such as bearing
walls or partitions, columns, beams, or girders, beyond ordinary repairs, and
maintenance.
      L.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected with a fixed
location on the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the
ground. Among other things, structures include buildings, mobile homes,
billboards, decks, poster panels, and carports.
   20.   Words beginning with “T.”
   21.   Words beginning with “U.”
   22.   Words beginning with “V.”
      A.   “Variance” means a relaxation of the terms of the Zoning Code where
such variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to
conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of the Zoning Code would result in unnecessary
and undue hardship. A variance may be authorized only for height of structures
and area and size of lots, yards, and open spaces. Establishment or expansion
of a use otherwise prohibited shall not be allowed by variance nor shall a
variance be granted because of the presence of nonconformities in the zoning
district or uses in adjoining zoning districts.
   23.   Words beginning with “W.”
   24.   Words beginning with “X.”
   25.   Words beginning with “Y.”
      A.   “Yard” means an open space on the same lot with a building or
structure. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining the depth of a
front yard or the depth of a rear yard, the least distance between the lot line
and the main building shall be used. In measuring a yard for the purpose of
determining the width of a side yard, the least distance between the lot line
and the nearest permitted building shall be used.
      B.   “Yard, front” means a yard extending across the full width of the
lot and measured between the front lot line and the building or any projection
thereof, other than the projection of the usual steps and eaves. In the case of
corner lots, the front yard shall be considered as the yard adjacent to the
street upon which the lot has its least dimension, unless the structure can be
placed on the lot and meet all required yard requirements, in which case either
street side may be the front yard.
      C.   “Yard, rear” means a yard extending across the full width of the lot
and measured between the rear lot line and the structure or any projections
other than uncovered steps, balconies, or eaves. On both corner lots and
interior lots the opposite end of the lot from the front yard shall be
considered the rear yard.
      D.   “Yard, side” means a yard extending from the front yard to the rear
yard and measured between the side lot lines and the nearest building.
   26.   Words beginning with “Z.”
      A.   “Zoning Administrative Officer” means the individual appointed by
the Council to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
      B.   “Zoning Compliance Permit” means a permit issued by the Zoning
Administrative Officer, authorizing the use of land in the manner and for the
purpose specified in the application.
165.04   DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
For the purpose and intent of this chapter, the City is hereby divided into
zoning district classifications as follows:
   1.   A-1   Agricultural District.
   2.   R-1   One- and Two-Family Dwelling District.
   3.   R-2   Multi-Family Dwelling District.
   4.   R-3   Mobile Home Park District.
   5.   R-4   Planned Residential District.
   6.   C-1   Central Commercial District.
   7.   C-2   Highway Commercial District.
   8.   M-1   General Industrial District.
165.05   BOUNDARIES AND OFFICIAL MAP.
The boundaries of these districts are indicated and established as shown upon
maps designated as the Official Zoning Map of Rockwell City, Iowa, which, with
all their notations, designations, references, and other matters shown thereon,
shall be as much a part of this chapter as if fully described and set forth
herein. Amendments, supplements, or changes of the boundaries of districts as
shown on the Official Zoning Map shall be made by an ordinance amending this
chapter. The amending ordinance shall refer to the Official Zoning Map and
shall set out the identification of the area affected by legal description and
identify the zoning district as the same exists and the new district
designation applicable to said property. Said ordinance shall, after adoption
and publication, be recorded by the Clerk as other ordinances and a certified
copy thereof be attached to the Official Zoning Map. Such amendatory ordinance
shall, however, not repeal or reenact said map, but only amend it. The Official
Zoning Map, together with amending ordinances, shall be the final authority as
to current zoning status of land and water areas, buildings, and other
structures in the City. In the event that the Official Zoning Map becomes
damaged, destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret because of the nature or
number of changes and additions, the Council may, by ordinance, adopt a new
Official Zoning Map which shall supersede the prior Official Zoning Map. The
new Official Zoning Map may correct drafting or other errors or omissions in
the prior Official Zoning Map, but no such corrections shall have the effect of
amending the original Official Zoning Ordinance or any subsequent amendment
thereof.
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances have been adopted amending the Official Zoning Map
of the City and have not been codified herein, but are specifically saved
from repeal and are in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE ADOPTED ORDINANCE ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances have been adopted amending the Official Zoning Map
of the City and have not been codified herein, but are specifically saved
from repeal and are in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE ADOPTED           ORDINANCE ADOPTED
319       July 7, 1998                
326       August 6, 2001              
328       August 19, 2002             
329       September 3, 2002           
334       April 5, 2004               
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
 
165.06   INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
Where uncertainty exists as to boundaries of districts as shown on the Official
Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
   1.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, highways, alleys, or other public rights-of-way shall be construed to
follow such centerlines.
   2.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall
be construed as following such lot lines.
   3.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following section lines, quarter
section lines, or quarter-quarter section lines shall be construed as following
such lines.
   4.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following City limits shall be
construed as following such City limits.
   5.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streams, rivers, canals, lakes, or other bodies of water shall be construed as
following such centerlines.
   6.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks.
   7.   Boundaries not capable of being determined in the previous paragraphs
shall be as dimensioned on the Official Zoning Map or, if not dimensioned,
shall be determined by the scale shown on the map.
165.07   ANNEXED TERRITORY.
All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the City shall be considered as
lying in the One- and- Two-Family Dwelling District (R-1) until such
classification shall have been changed by amendment.
165.08   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
Except as herein provided:
   1.   No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged,
reconstructed, or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used,
nor shall any use of the land be changed, which does not comply with all of the
district regulations for the district in which the building or land is located.
   2.   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of the Zoning Code shall
be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum required. No part of a yard
or other open space, or off-street parking or loading space provided about any
building, structure, or use for the purpose of complying with the provisions of
this chapter shall be included as part of a yard, open space, or off-street
parking or loading space required under this chapter for another building,
structure, or use.
   3.   Every building hereafter erected or subject to structural alteration
shall be located on a lot as herein defined and in no case shall there be more
than one main building on one lot unless otherwise provided in this chapter.
165.09   AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (A-1).
The intent of the A-1 District is to allow for the agricultural use of certain
areas until such time as streets, utilities, and community facilities may be
provided or programmed to ensure the orderly and beneficial conversion of these
lands to nonagricultural uses.
   1.   Principal Uses Permitted. Only the following uses and structures shall
be permitted in the A-1 District.
      A.   Agriculture, including the usual agricultural buildings and
structures, but not including commercial feed lots, the concentrated feeding of
animals within a confined area, commercial grain storage, and grain drying
facilities.
      B.   Single-family dwellings.
      C.   Cemeteries.
      D.   Public parks, golf courses, playground, and recreation areas,
including private, non-commercial, country clubs, golf courses, and swimming
pools.
      E.   Nurseries, greenhouses, and truck gardens.
      F.   Kennels or stables, provided that exercise areas not be closer than
200 feet to any residential dwellings other than the owner’s.
   2.   Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures. The following accessory uses
and structures shall be permitted:
      A.   Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate to
the permitted uses and structures and to uses and structures permitted as
exceptions.
      B.   Home occupations.
      C.   Roadside stands for the sale of agricultural produce grown on the
premises.
      D.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work.
      E.   Essential services.
      F.   Private garage or carport.
      G.   Churches, chapels, temples, and similar places of worship.
      H.   Government owned and operated security or correctional facilities.
   3.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. The following uses may be
permitted in the Agricultural District (A-1) subject to approval by the Board
of Adjustment as provided for in this chapter.
      A.   Grain storage and grain drying facilities.
      B.   Transmitters, towers, receiver equipment.
   4.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
subject to modifications contained in Section 165.17:
      A.   Lot Area. The minimum lot area shall be 43,560 square feet.
      B.   Lot Width. The minimum lot width shall be 100 feet.
      C.   Front Yard. The minimum front yard shall be 30 feet.
      D.   Side Yard. The minimum side yard shall be 25 feet.
      E.   Rear Yard. The minimum rear yard shall be 25 feet.
      F.   Maximum Height. No building shall exceed a height of two and one-
half stories or 35 feet, unless otherwise provided.
   5.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.18.
   6.   Off-Street Loading. Off-street loading shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.19.
   7.   Signs. Signs are permitted subject to the provisions of Section
165.20.
165.10   ONE- AND- TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-1).
The intent of the R-1 District is to provide for low to medium density
residential development with a limited number of institutional and recreational
facilities permitted.
   1.   Principal Uses Permitted. Only the following principal uses and
structures shall be permitted in the R-1 District:
      A.   One-family dwellings.
      B.   Two-family dwellings (duplexes).
      C.   Churches, chapels, temples, and similar places of worship.
      D.   Schools and colleges having curriculums approved by the State of
Iowa.
      E.   Publicly owned and operated buildings, parks, playgrounds, golf
courses, and recreation areas.
      F.   Funeral home.
   2.   Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures. The following accessory uses
and structures shall be permitted:
      A.   Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate to
the permitted uses and structures and to uses and structures permitted as
exceptions.
      B.   Private garage or carport.
      C.   Home occupations.
      D.   Essential services.
      E.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work.
   3.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. The following uses and
structures may be permitted in the R-1 District subject to provisions of this
chapter and with the approval of the Board of Adjustment:
      A.   Hospitals, rest homes, nursing homes, and convalescent homes.
      B.   Day nursery or nursery school.
      C.   Boarding or lodging house.
   4.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
subject to modifications contained in Section 165.17:
      A.   Lot Area: The minimum lot area shall be:
         (1)   Single-family dwelling: 8,000 square feet.
         (2)   Two-family dwelling: 10,000 square feet.
         (3)   Other uses: 8,000 square feet.
      B.   Lot Width. The minimum lot width shall be 75 feet.
      (50-foot lots may be approved by the City Council.)
      C.   Front Yard. The minimum front yard shall be 30 feet.
      D.   Side Yard. The minimum side yard shall be eight feet.
      E.   Rear Yard. The minimum rear yard shall be 25 feet.
      F.   Maximum Height. No building shall exceed a height of two and one-
half stories or 35 feet, unless otherwise provided.
   5.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.18.
   6.   Off-Street Loading. Off-street loading shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.19.
   7.   Signs. Signs are permitted subject to the provisions of Section
165.20.
165.11   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-2).
The intent of the R-2 District is to provide for living areas within the City
for development of multiple-family dwellings and single-family dwellings which
are compatible in character and density with the multiple-family residential
environment.
   1.   Principal Uses Permitted. Only the following principal uses and
structures shall be permitted in the R-2 District:
      A.   One-family dwelling.
      B.   Two-family dwellings (duplexes).
      C.   Multi-family dwellings, or apartments.
      D.   Boarding or lodging houses.
      E.   Churches, chapels, temples, and similar places of worship.
      F.   Schools and colleges having curriculums approved by the State.
      G.   Publicly owned and operated buildings, parks, playgrounds, golf
courses, and recreation areas.
      H.   Day nursery or nursery schools.
      I.   Funeral Homes.
   2.   Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures. The following accessory uses
and structures shall be permitted:
      A.   Private garage or carport.
      B.   Home occupations.
      C.   Essential services.
      D.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work.
      E.   Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate to
the permitted uses and structures permitted as exceptions.
   3.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. The following uses and
structures may be permitted in the R-2 District subject to provisions of this
chapter with the approval of the Board of Adjustment:
      A.   Rest homes, nursing homes, and convalescent homes.
   4.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
subject to modifications contained in Section 165.17.
      A.   Lot Area. The minimum lot area shall be:
         (1)   One-family dwelling: 8,000 square feet.
         (2)   Two-family dwelling: 10,000 square feet.
         (3)   Multi-family dwelling: 3,000 square feet per dwelling unit, but
in no case less than a total of 12,000 square feet.
         (4)   Other uses: 8,000 square feet.
      B.   Lot Width. The minimum lot width shall be 75 feet.
      C.   Front Yard. The minimum front yard setback shall be 30 feet.
      D.   Side Yard. For one- and- two-family dwellings there shall be a side
yard not less than eight feet. For multiple-family structures and other uses
there shall be a side yard of 12 feet.
      E.   Rear Yard. The minimum rear yard shall be 25 feet.
      F.   Maximum Height. No building shall exceed a height of two and one-
half stories or 35 feet unless otherwise provided.
   5.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.18.
   6.   Off-Street Loading. Off-street loading shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.19.
   7.   Signs. Signs are permitted subject to the provisions of Section
165.20.
165.12   MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT (R-3).
The R-3 District shall provide for mobile home developments in areas of the
community where their use is compatible with existing and future residential
areas. This district shall be well served by arterial streets to provide
adequate access and planned development that is compatible with the character
of neighboring uses.
   1.   Principal Uses Permitted. Only the following principal uses and
structures shall be permitted in the R-3 District.
      A.   Mobile homes located within planned mobile home parks in accordance
to provisions of State statutes and any City regulation.
      B.   Publicly owned and operated buildings, parks, playgrounds, and
recreation areas.
      C.   Day nursery or nursery schools.
      D.   Churches, chapels, temples, and similar places of worship.
   2.   Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures. The following accessory uses
and structures shall be permitted:
      A.   Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate to
the permitted uses and structures and to uses and structures permitted as
exceptions.
      B.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work.
      C.   Essential services.
      D.   Home occupations.
   3.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. The following uses may be
permitted in R-3 Districts subject to approval by the Board of Adjustment as
provided for in this chapter.
      A.   None.
   4.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
subject to modifications contained in Section 165.17:
      A.   Minimum lot area for mobile home park:
         (1)   The minimum total area shall be two acres.
         (2)   All front yards shall be a minimum of 30 feet.
      B.   Each mobile home located within a Mobile Home Park shall be located
on a sub-lot containing at least 3,000 square feet and shall measure at least
40 by 75 feet.
      C.   Mobile homes shall be located on each space so there will be at
least a 20-foot clearance between each mobile home, a five-foot open space
between the mobile home including any permanently enclosed appendage, and any
driveway, walkway, or mobile home space boundary; and a 10-foot open space at
the rear of the mobile home.
   5.   Plan Required. Each petition for a change to the R-3 District zoning
classification shall be accompanied by a plan. Said plan shall show each mobile
home space, the water, electrical, and sewer lines serving each mobile home
space, the location of garbage cans, water hydrants, service buildings,
driveways, walkways, recreation areas, required yards, parking facilities,
lighting, and landscaping. The plan shall be considered by the Planning and
Zoning Commission and the Council, who may approve or disapprove said plan or
require such changes as are necessary to effectuate the intent of this chapter.
The plan shall show how the mobile home park is to be provided with emergency
storm shelters to accommodate all park residents in the case of severe storms
and natural disasters.
   6.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.18.
   7.   Off-Street Loading. Off-street loading shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.19.
   8.   Signs. Signs are permitted subject to the provisions of Section
165.20.
165.13   PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-4).
The R-4 District is intended to provide for the development of large tracts of
ground by allowing greater flexibility and diversification of land uses and
building locations than allowed by the single lot method. Principles of land
use planning, including a balanced relationship between various types of uses,
must be maintained and zoning standards set forth in this chapter concerning
population density, light and air, recreation, and open space, and building
coverage must be preserved.
   1.   Procedure. The owner of any tract of land not less than 10 acres may
submit to the Council a plan for the use and development of the entire tract.
Such plan shall be referred to the Planning and Zoning Commission for study and
recommendation. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review the conformity
of the proposed development with the standards of the Comprehensive Plan and
with principles of urban design, land use planning, and landscape architecture.
The Planning and Zoning Commission may approve, disapprove, or require that the
applicant modify, alter, adjust, or amend the plan as the Planning and Zoning
Commission deems necessary for preserving the intent and purpose of this
chapter. The approved plan shall be reported to the Council, whereupon the
Council may (after notice and public hearing) approve or disapprove said plan
or may require such changes as it deems necessary to effectuate the intent and
purpose of this chapter. Upon approval of the plan the Council shall initiate a
change in zoning of the tract to the R-4 District classification.
   2.   Standards. Land usage, minimum lot area, yards, building height, and
accessory uses shall be determined by the requirements set out below, which
shall prevail over conflicting requirements of this chapter or the Subdivision
Regulations.
      A.   The buildings shall be used for residential purposes and the
following accessory uses: garages; storage spaces; noncommercial recreational
facilities; and community activities including churches and schools.
      B.   The minimum yard and height requirements of the zoning district in
which the development is located shall not apply except that minimum yards
specified in the district shall be provided around the boundaries of the area
being developed.
      C.   Uses along the project boundary lines shall not be in conflict with
those allowed in adjoining or opposite property. To this end the Commission and
Council may require that uses of least intensity or a buffer of open space or
screening be arranged along the borders of the project.
      D.   A plat of the development shall be recorded showing building lines,
building locations, common land, streets, easements, and items required by the
Subdivision Regulations.
      E.   No building permits shall be issued until the final plat is approved
and recorded.
   3.   Deed Restrictions. The Planning and Zoning Commission and Council may
consider any deed restrictions or covenants entered into or contracted for by
the developer concerning the use of common land or permanent open space. Common
land shall refer to spaces dedicated to public use and to land retained in
private ownership but intended for the use of the residents of the development
or the general public.
   4.   Density Requirements. The maximum number of dwelling units to be
permitted is calculated by dividing the total area of the development by the
minimum lot area per dwelling unit permitted by the zoning district in which
the development is located. However, before dividing to determine the number of
units allowed, the acres set aside for churches, schools, streets, parks, or
other similar public spaces are to be deducted from the total project acreage.
If the planned unit development is to contain only multiple-family dwellings,
the areas set aside for common land, open space, or recreation may be added to
the total development acreage before the total is divided to determine the
number of units allowed. However, in an R-1 District the maximum percentage of
units that may be multi-family is 50 percent, and in any R-2 District the
maximum percentage of units that may be multi-family is 75 percent. If the
development area contains two or more different zoning classifications, the
number of dwelling units permitted and the percentage of multiples allowed
shall be determined in direct proportion to the area of each zoning
classification contained in the entire tract.
   5.   Completion. The Council shall make the approval of the development plan
contingent upon completion of improvements within a reasonable period of time.
In determining such time period, the Council shall consider the scope and
magnitude of the development and any schedule of construction and improvements
submitted by the developer. Failure to complete all construction and
improvements within said period of time shall be deemed sufficient cause for
the Council to rezone the property to the classification effective at the time
of original submission of the development plan, unless an extension is
recommended by the Planning and Zoning Commission and approved by the Council.
Any proposed change in the development plan after approval by the Council shall
be resubmitted and considered in the same manner as the original proposal.
165.14   CENTRAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C-1).
The intent of the C-1 District is to provide for a commercial area to serve the
shopping needs of the trade area and to permit uses which will strengthen the
central business district as the center of trade, service, government, and
cultural activities.
   1.   Principal Uses Permitted. Only the following principal uses and
structures shall be permitted in the C-1 District:
      A.   Antique shops.
      B.   Art and hobby shops.
      C.   Auto parts store.
      D.   Automobile sales and service.
      E.   Bakery, retail.
      F.   Bank, savings and loans, including drive-ins.
      G.   Barber shop, beauty parlor.
      H.   Billiard or pool hall.
      I.   Bookstore.
      J.   Catering.
      K.   Clothing or apparel store.
      L.   Convention building for private display.
      M.   Dairy store.
      N.   Day nursery or nursery school.
      O.   Department store.
      P.   Drug store.
      Q.   Dry goods and notions store.
      R.   Eating and drinking establishments.
      S.   Electrical equipment and appliance stores.
      T.   Florist shop.
      U.   Furniture store.
      V.   Gift shop.
      W.   Grocery store.
      X.   Gymnasium, bowling alleys, dance studios.
      Y.   Hardware store.
      Z.   Heating and air conditioning sales.
      AA.   Jewelry store.
      BB.   Laundry facility.
      CC.   Multi-family residential uses, provided that such uses not be in
the first, ground, or basement floor of any structure.
      DD.   Office equipment store.
      EE.   Optical goods store.
      FF.   Paint, lumber, and building supplies store.
      GG.   Photography and camera shops.
      HH.   Plumbing, heating, sheet metal, and woodworking shops.
      II.   Publicly owned buildings.
      JJ.   Printing, newspaper, commercial.
      KK.   Private parking lots.
      LL.   Professional offices.
      MM.   Retail pet shop.
      NN.   Shoe store and repair shop.
      OO.   Sporting goods store.
      PP.   Upholstery shop.
   2.   Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures. The following accessory uses
and structures shall be permitted:
      A.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work.
      B.   Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate to
the permitted uses and to uses and structures permitted as exceptions.
      C.   Essential services.
   3.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. The following uses and
structures may be permitted in the C-1 District subject to provisions of this
chapter and with the approval of the Board of Adjustment.
      A.   None.
   4.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
subject to modifications contained in Section 165.17.
      A.   Lot Area. No minimum lot area shall be required.
      B.   Lot Width. No minimum lot width shall be required.
      C.   Front Yard. No minimum front yard shall be required.
      D.   Side Yard. No minimum side yard shall be required, except when
adjoining an R District, in which case 10 feet shall be provided.
      E.   Rear Yard. No minimum rear yard is required except when adjoining an
R District in which case a rear yard of 25 feet shall be provided.
      F.   Maximum Height. No building shall exceed a height of two and one-
half stories or 35 feet unless otherwise provided.
   5.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.18.
   6.   Off-Street Loading. Off-street loading shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.19.
   7.   Signs. Signs are permitted subject to the provisions of Section
165.20.
165.15   HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C-2).
The intent of the C-2 District is to establish the location of areas best
suited to the needs of highway related businesses whose primary function is
catering to traffic generated by the adjacent roadway. These uses are
characterized by the need for larger lot sizes and the need to supply their own
off-street parking.
   1.   Principal Uses Permitted. Only the following principal uses and
structures shall be permitted in the C-2 District:
      A.   Academy for riding, dancing etc.
      B.   Auditorium, exhibition hall, club.
      C.   Automobile service station and body shop.
      D.   Automobile sales and service.
      E.   Bowling alley.
      F.   Car wash.
      G.   Carpentry shop.
      H.   Commercial nurseries and greenhouses.
      I.   Commercial recreation or amusement.
      J.   Day nursery or nursery school.
      K.   Discount department store.
      L.   Drive-in establishment.
      M.   Dry cleaning and coin-operated laundry.
      N.   Eating and drinking establishments.
      O.   Furniture and appliance stores.
      P.   Garden supplies stores.
      Q.   Hay, grain, feed, seed, retail.
      R.   Lumber and building materials.
      S.   Mobile homes and recreational vehicle sales.
      T.   Motels and motor lodges.
      U.   Nursing homes.
      V.   Open-air sales of autos, implements, trucks.
      W.   Private clubs.
      X.   Private parking lots.
      Y.   Professional office.
      Z.   Publicly-owned buildings.
      AA.   Retail pet shop and veterinarian.
      BB.   Sign painting or manufacture.
      CC.   Supermarkets, grocery store.
      DD.   Underground storage of flammable liquids, not to exceed 25,000
gallons and provided it is located at least 200 feet from any R District. Above
ground storage of flammable fuels must be in accordance with current
regulations of the State Fire Marshal and any applicable requirements of the
City Fire Department.
      EE.   Wood working shop.
   2.   Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures. The following accessory uses
and structures shall be permitted:
      A.   Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate to
the permitted uses and structures and to uses and structures permitted as
exceptions.
      B.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work.
      C.   Essential services.
      D.   Churches, chapels, temples, and similar places of worship.
   3.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. The following uses and
structures may be permitted in the C-2 District subject to provisions of this
chapter and with the approval of the Board of Adjustment.
      A.   None.
   4.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
subject to modifications contained in Section 165.17:
      A.   Lot Area. The minimum lot area shall be 10,000 square feet.
      B.   Lot Width. The minimum lot width shall be 100 feet.
      C.   Front Yard. The minimum front yard shall be 30 feet.
      D.   Side Yard. No minimum side yard shall be required, except when
adjoining an R District, in which case 10 feet shall be provided.
      E.   Rear Yard. No minimum rear yard is required except when adjoining an
R District in which case a rear yard of 25 feet shall be provided.
      F.   Maximum Height. No building shall exceed a height of two and one-
half stories or 35 feet unless otherwise provided.
   5.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.18.
   6.   Off-Street Loading. Off-street loading shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.19.
   7.   Signs. Signs are permitted subject to the provisions of Section
165.20.
165.16   GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (M-1).
The intent of the M-1 District is to provide space for certain commercial and a
wide range of industrial uses and structures which are able to meet certain
performance standards to protect nearby non-industrial uses from undesirable
environmental conditions.
   1.   Principal Uses Permitted. Only the following principal uses and
structures shall be permitted in the M-1 District, except those uses which by
reason of the emission of odor, excessive congestion, dust, fumes, smoke,
noise, and other obnoxious characteristics would be injurious to the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the community.
      A.   Assembly or fabrication of metal, rubber, cloth, plastic, stone,
leather, wood, or similar raw materials.
      B.   Auto service, assembly, and repair.
      C.   Beverage bottling or processing.
      D.   Blacksmith.
      E.   Cement warehousing and mixing.
      F.   Feed mixing.
      G.   Fertilizer mixing and storage.
      H.   Food processing, but not including packing or rendering plants.
      I.   Grain storage elevators.
      J.   Hatchery.
      K.   Lumber yard.
      L.   Moving company.
      M.   Private parking lots.
      N.   Produce warehouse.
      O.   Publicly-owned buildings.
      P.   Transfer company.
      Q.   Underground storage of flammable liquids, not to exceed 25,000
gallons and provided it is located at least 200 feet from any R District. Above
ground storage of flammable fuels must be in accordance with current
regulations of the State Fire Marshal and any applicable requirements of the
City Fire Department.
      R.   Warehouse.
   2.   Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures. The following accessory uses
and structures shall be permitted:
      A.   Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate to
the permitted uses and structures and to uses and structures permitted as
exceptions.
      B.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work.
      C.   Essential services.
      D.   Day nursery or nursery schools provided by an employer for the
benefit of employees working on the premises.
   3.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. The following uses and
structures may be permitted in the M-1 District subject to provisions of this
chapter and with the approval of the Board of Adjustment:
      A.   Dairy products manufacture.
      B.   Explosive manufacturer.
      C.   Fertilizer manufacture.
      D.   Gas manufacture.
      E.   Manufacture or smelting of metal, rubber, plastic, stone, leather,
or wood products from basic raw materials.
      F.   Meat packing plants.
      G.   Salvage or junk yard.
      H.   Stockyard.
      I.   Transmitters, towers, receiver equipment.
   4.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
subject to modifications contained in Section 165.17:
      A.   Lot Area. The minimum lot area shall be 10,000 square feet.
      B.   Lot Width. The minimum lot width shall be 100 feet.
      C.   Front Yard. The minimum front yard shall be 30 feet.
      D.   Side Yard. No minimum side yard shall be required, except when
adjoining an R District, in which case 10 feet shall be provided.
      E.   Rear Yard. No minimum rear yard is required except when adjoining an
R District in which case a rear yard of 25 feet shall be provided.
      F.   Maximum Height. No building shall exceed a height of two and one-
half stories or 35 feet unless otherwise provided.
   5.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.18.
   6.   Off-Street Loading. Off-street loading shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.19.
   7.   Signs. Signs are permitted subject to the provisions of Section
165.20.
165.17   ADDITIONAL AREA AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
The regulations set forth in this section qualify, supplement, or modify the
area and height regulations set forth elsewhere in this chapter.
   1.   Lot Area and Width. Any lot of record at the time of passage of the
Zoning Code having less area or width than herein required may be used for a
single-family dwelling where such uses are permitted as provided in this
chapter; provided, however:
      A.   A lot of record at the time of passage of the Zoning Code having a
lot width of 50 feet or less shall maintain the required side yard on each side
of the dwelling, but such yard shall not be less than five feet.
      B.   A lot of record at the time of passage of the Zoning Code having a
lot depth of 100 feet or less may have the required rear yard reduced to not
less than 20 feet.
   2.   Yards.
      A.   Where 30 percent or more of the block front is improved with
buildings, then no part of any new building shall project beyond a line joining
the two adjacent corners of the buildings on either side thereof or, where
there is a building on only one side, beyond a line projected from the
corresponding adjacent corners of the two nearest buildings, except that no
building shall be required to provide a front yard greater than that required
for the district in which it is located. Where an official line has been
established for future widening or opening of a street upon which a lot abuts,
then the depth of a front or side yard shall be measured from such official
line.
      B.   In the case where the block front improved with buildings amounts to
less than 30 percent of the total number of lots, including vacant lots, on one
side of the street between two intersecting streets, the required minimum yards
of the district shall be observed.
      C.   Buildings on through lots shall provide the required front yard on
both streets.
      D.   The required side yard on the street side of a corner lot shall be
not less than 50 percent of the front yard required on the lots to the rear of
the corner lot, and no accessory building shall project beyond the required
front yard on either street.
   3.   Use of Public Right-of-Way. No portion of the public road, street, or
alley right-of-way shall be used for display purposes or to provide any parking
or loading space required by this chapter.
   4.   Temporary Building. Temporary buildings with construction work may be
permitted in any district during the period that the construction work is in
progress, but such temporary buildings shall be removed within 30 days after
completion or abandonment of the construction work.
   5.   Accessory Buildings. Accessory buildings and uses customarily
incidental to that of the main building may be erected or established as
permitted, provided they comply with the following:
      A.   No accessory building shall be located within two feet of any side
or rear lot line, and shall not be located within five feet of any alley line.
      B.   Accessory buildings in any district shall not occupy more than 30
percent of the required yards.
      C.   No accessory building is permitted within the limits of the front
yard.
      D.   No accessory building shall be used for dwelling purposes.
      E.   Any open unenclosed or uncovered steps, ground level patios, eaves
not more than two feet in width, or concrete slab driveways may project into a
required yard.
      F.   Accessory buildings attached to or connected to the principal
building by a breezeway shall be considered to be a part of the principal
building and must meet the yard requirements of the principal building.
      G.   Satellite television receptions discs shall be considered to be an
accessory building and, as such, shall not be located within a front yard.
      H.   Any accessory building built on a residential lot without a
residential dwelling shall be at the discretion of the Council. This shall
include the type of accessory building, and composite materials of the
accessory building.
   6.   Building Height. The height regulations shall not apply to television
and radio towers, church spires, belfries, monuments, farm buildings, tanks,
water and fire towers, stage towers or scenery lofts, cooling towers, grain
elevators, ornamental towers and spires, chimneys, elevator bulkheads, drilling
rigs, conveyors, flagpoles, and other pertinent mechanical apparatus which may
be erected to any height not in conflict with any other applicable regulations.
165.18   OFF-STREET PARKING.
There shall be provided at the time any new building or structure is erected
off-street parking spaces in accordance with the requirements set forth herein:
   1.   General Provisions:
      A.   Except in the Central Commercial District (C-1) all buildings,
structures, and uses of lands shall provide accessory parking as required under
this section.
      B.   In nonresidential districts all yard areas may be used to satisfy
the off-street parking requirements.
      C.   In residential districts off-street parking is allowed in all yards
except the front yard extending from the front building line to the curb line
of the street. However, that portion of a driveway extending into or through a
front yard may be used to satisfy the off-street parking requirements.
   2.   Off-Street Parking Requirements. At the time of construction,
alteration, moving in, enlargement of a structure or building, or change in the
use of the land, off-street parking spaces shall be provided, constructed, and
maintained for all uses as follows:
      A.   Residential or Multiple-Family. Two spaces per dwelling unit.
      B.   Mobile Home Park. Two spaces per mobile home.
      C.   Hotel and Motel. One space per lodging unit.
      D.   Nursing Homes, Retirement Centers, Rest Homes, or Similar Uses. One
space for every four patient beds.
      E.   Places of Public Assembly (such as auditoriums, theaters, stadiums,
funeral homes, churches, community hall, public buildings, etc.). The greater
of one space for every four seats or one space per 500 square feet of gross
floor area.
      F.   Retail Sales and Service Uses (such as stores, restaurants, taverns,
banks, professional offices, etc.). One space per 300 square feet of gross
floor area.
      G.   Manufacturing, Wholesaling, Warehousing, and Similar Uses. One space
for every two employees in the largest working shift.
      H.   Salvage Yards. One space per 1,000 square feet of display or floor
area.
165.19   OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
At the time of construction, alteration, or enlargement of a structure or
building, off-street loading areas shall be provided and maintained for all
uses as follows:
   1.   One 1,000-square-foot, off-street loading area shall be provided for
each use, building, or structure of a size between 5,000 and 20,000 square
feet.
   2.   For larger uses, buildings, and structures one 1,000-square-foot, off-
street loading area shall be provided for each additional 20,000 square feet or
fraction thereof.
   3.   Where the off-street loading space borders a residential district, it
shall be set back five feet and shall be effectively screen planted.
165.20   SIGNS.
   1.   Requirements. Billboards and signs that are located in conjunction with
principal permitted uses are allowed subject to the following regulations:
      A.   Agricultural District (A-1):
         (1)   Church bulletin boards are permitted.
         (2)   Signs used by a farm operation to advertise seed and feed types.
      B.   All Residential Districts, except the Mobile Home District (R-3):
Church bulletin boards are permitted.
      C.   Mobile Home District (R-3): One sign may be erected facing each
public street on which the mobile home park borders. Such sign shall not have
an area of more than 10 square feet.
      D.   Central Commercial District (C-1):
         (1)   Signs are permitted provided that they are either attached flush
to the building (but extending out from the building not more than 12 inches),
painted on the building, hung from an attached canopy, or are attached to the
building but extend over the sidewalk.
         (2)   All signs that extend over the sidewalk shall, at a minimum,
have a clearance of at least eight feet.
         (3)   One free-standing or post sign referring to a use or uses
conducted on the premises may be erected in any yard abutting a public street;
however, such sign shall not obstruct the public view.
         (4)   Signs extending from a building or structure shall not project
outward greater than four feet.
      E.   Highway Commercial District (C-2), and General Industrial District
(M-1):
         (1)   Outdoor advertising signs and billboards are permitted, provided
that the yard and height requirements for a principal structure are met.
         (2)   One free-standing or post sign referring to a use or uses
conducted on the premises may be erected in any yard abutting a public street;
however, such sign shall not obstruct the public view.
   2.   Signs for Special Exception Uses. In all cases where a use is permitted
as a special exception, signs will be allowed only through Board of Adjustment
approval.
   3.   Informational Signs. Informational and directional signs will be
permitted in all districts.
   4.   Real Estate Signs. Real estate signs advertising for sale, rental, or
lease only, the premises, lot, or tracts on which they are located will be
allowed in all districts. The area of such sign shall not exceed 50 square feet
in area in all nonresidential districts and five square feet in area in any
residential district.
   5.   Intermittent Flashing Type Signs. No intermittent flashing type signs
are permitted. No moving, flashing, rotating, illuminated signs, or colored
lights, that may be confused with traffic lights, are permitted.
165.21   SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES.
Allowable special exception uses may be permitted, enlarged, or altered upon
application for a Special Exception Use Permit in accordance with the rules and
procedures of the Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment will grant or
deny a Special Exception Use Permit in accordance with the standards set forth
herein and with the intent and purpose of this chapter. In granting a Special
Exception Use Permit, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe and impose
appropriate conditions, safeguards, and a specified time limit for the
performance of the Special Exception Use Permit.
   1.   Application for Special Exception Use Permit. An application for a
Special Exception Use Permit may be initiated by a property owner or an
authorized agent by filing an application with the Zoning Administrator upon
forms prescribed for the purposes. The application shall be accompanied by a
site plan and other such plans and data showing the dimensions, arrangements,
descriptive data, and other materials constituting a record essential to an
understanding of the proposed use and proposed modification in relation to the
standards set forth herein. The application shall also be accompanied by a fee
as determined by resolution of the Council.
   2.   Procedure. A Special Exception Permit shall not be granted by the Board
of Adjustment unless and until the following procedures have been fulfilled:
      A.   The Board of Adjustment shall schedule a public hearing in relation
to the special exception request. Notice shall be given to the public hearing
as required by State statute by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the City. If feasible, notice of the public hearing will be
mailed to property owners within 200 feet of the exception request.
      B.   The Board of Adjustment shall determine that it is empowered under
this chapter to grant the special exception as described in the application,
and that granting of the special exception will not adversely affect the public
interest pursuant to testimony presented at the public hearing.
      C.   In granting any special exception, the Board of Adjustment may
prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this
chapter. Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the
terms under which the special exception is granted, shall be deemed a violation
of this chapter.
      D.   The concurring vote of three members of the Board of Adjustment
grants a Special Exception Use Permit. No order of the Board of Adjustment
granting a Special Exception Use Permit shall be valid for a period longer than
six months from the date of such order, unless the Board of Adjustment
specifically grants a longer period of time or a building permit is obtained
within the six-month period and construction is commenced.
      E.   The Council may, after a decision of the Board of Adjustment is
made, vote to delay the implementation of such decision for a period of 30
days. The Council may not overturn a decision of the Board of Adjustment.
During the 30-day period, the Board of Adjustment may or may not reconsider its
decision.
   3.   Standards. No Special Exception Use Permit shall be granted by the
Board of Adjustment unless such Board shall find:
      A.   The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the special use will
not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals, comfort,
or general welfare of the community.
      B.   The special exception use will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purpose already
permitted, or substantially diminish and impair property values within the
neighborhood.
      C.   The establishment of the special exception use will not impede the
normal and orderly development in improvement of the surrounding property for
uses permitted in the district.
      D.   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, or necessary facilities
have been or are being provided.
      E.   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress and
egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets.
      F.   The use shall not include any activity involving the use or storage
of flammable or explosive material unless protected by adequate firefighting
and fire suppression equipment and by such safety devices as are normally used
in handling of any such material.
      G.   The use shall not include noise, which is objectionable due to
volume, frequency, or beat unless muffled or otherwise controlled.
      H.   The use shall not include vibration which is discernible without
instruments on any adjoining lot or property.
      I.   The use shall not involve any malodorous gas or matter which is
discernible on any adjoining property.
      J.   The use shall not involve any pollution of the air by fly-ash, dust,
vapors, or other substance which is harmful to health, animals, vegetation, or
other property or which can cause soiling, discomfort, or irritation.
      K.   The use shall not involve any direct or reflected glare which is
visible from any adjoining property or from any public street, road, or
highway.
      L.   The use shall not involve any activity substantially increasing the
movement of traffic on public streets unless procedures are initiated to limit
traffic hazards and congestion.
      M.   The use shall not involve any activity substantially increasing the
burden on any public utilities or facilities unless provisions are made for any
necessary adjustments.
      N.   The use will not be in major conflict with the Comprehensive Plan.
165.22   NONCONFORMING USES.
Within the various districts established by this chapter or amendments that may
later be adopted there exist structures and uses of land and structures which
were lawful prior to the adoption of the Zoning Ordinance, but which would be
prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the provisions of this chapter. It
is the intent of this chapter to permit these nonconformities to continue until
they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. Such uses are declared
by this chapter to be incompatible with permitted uses in the districts
involved.
   1.   Nonconforming Lots of Record in any Residential District. A single-
family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single
lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of the Zoning Code
even though such lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both,
that are generally applicable in that district. The yard dimensions and other
bulk regulations for the district in which such lot is located shall apply.
Variance of area, width, and yard requirements shall be obtained through action
of the Board of Adjustment. Two or more nonconforming lots, or portions
thereof, that are contiguous in frontage and under the same ownership shall be
considered to be an unsubdivided parcel for purposes of this chapter. No
portion of said parcel shall be sold and then used which does not meet lot
width and area requirements established by this chapter, nor shall any division
of the parcel be made which leaves remaining any lot with width or area below
the requirements stated in this chapter.
   2.   Nonconforming Uses or Structures in any Residential District. Existing
structures or premises devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter in the
district which such structure or premise is located shall not be enlarged,
extended, reconstructed, substituted, or structurally altered, except when
required by law, unless:
      A.   The use is changed to a use permitted in the district in which such
structure or premises is located.
      B.   A nonconforming use of a structure may be changed to another
nonconforming use of the same or more restrictive classification, provided no
structural alterations are made.
      C.   If a nonconforming use of any structure or premises is discontinued
for a period of one year, the use of the same shall conform thereafter to the
uses permitted in the district in which it is located.
   3.   Nonconforming Uses or Structures in any District Other Than A
Residential District. The regulations described in Subsection 2 shall apply to
nonconforming uses in a commercial, industrial, or agricultural district,
subject to the following exception: Nonconforming structures may be
structurally altered or enlarged in conformity with the lot area, lot width,
yard, and height requirements of the district in which such use is located.
Such construction shall be limited to buildings on a lot of record (or a
combination of lots of record in the same ownership) prior to the effective
date of the Zoning Code. The structural alteration or enlargement of structures
shall not change the nature of the nonconforming use that existed prior to the
effective date of the Zoning Code.
   4.   Permitted Structures and Use of Land and Structures Made Nonconforming
by the Requirements of the Bulk Regulations. A permitted structure or use that
fails to meet the established bulk regulations of the district in which it is
located may be structurally altered or extended, provided that the alteration
or extension is in compliance with the bulk regulations of the district in
which it is located. Any variance must be obtained through action of the Board
of Adjustment.
   5.   Replacing Damaged Buildings. Any nonconforming building or structure
damaged more than 50 percent of its replacement value (inclusive of the
foundation) at the time of damage by fire, flood, explosion, war, riot, or act
of God shall not be restored or reconstructed and used as before such
happening, but if less than 50 percent of the structure is damaged, it may be
restored, reconstructed, or used as before provided that reconstruction be
started within one year of such happening.
   6.   Uses Under Special Exception Provisions. Any use for which a special
exception is permitted as provided in this chapter shall not be deemed a
conforming use. Any additions shall be with Board of Adjustment approval.
165.23   ADMINISTRATION.
   1.   Administrator. The Council shall appoint a Zoning Administrative
Officer, and it shall be the duty of said officer to enforce this chapter. Such
officer may be a person holding other appointive office in the City or in
another governmental agency.
   2.   Zoning Compliance Permits. No land shall be occupied or used, and no
building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be occupied or used,
in whole or in part, for any purpose whatsoever, until a permit is issued by
the Zoning Administrator, stating that the building and use comply with the
provisions of this chapter. No change of use shall be made in any building or
part thereof, now, or hereafter erected or structurally altered, without a
permit being issued therefore by the Zoning Administrative Officer. No permit
shall be issued to make a change unless the changes are in conformity with
provisions of this chapter. Nothing in this part shall prevent the continuance
of a nonconforming use as herein authorized, unless a discontinuance is
necessary for the safety of life or property.
   3.   Application for Compliance Permit. Compliance permits shall be obtained
from the Zoning Administrative Officer before starting or proceeding with the
erection, construction, moving in, or the structural alteration of a building
or structure. Permits shall be kept on file in the office of the Zoning
Administrative Officer, and copies shall be furnished on request to any person
having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building affected. Compliance
permits shall be issued to applicants within 10 days after application is made.
Permits will be valid for 180 days. If construction is not completed within
that time period, a new permit must be obtained. Failure to timely complete
construction may be grounds for denial of an additional permit.
   4.   Plats. Each application for a compliance permit shall be accompanied by
either a dimensioned drawing or plat drawn to scale showing the actual
dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the size, shape, and location of the
building to be erected, the dimensions of the required yards, parking, and open
spaces, and such other information as may be necessary to provide for the
enforcement of this chapter.
   5.   Construction and Use to be as Provided in Application, Plans, and
Permit. Compliance permits issued on the basis of plans and applications,
approved by the Zoning Administrative Officer, authorize only that use,
arrangement, and construction. Use, arrangement, and construction at variance
with that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   6.   Fees. Before receiving a compliance permit, the owner or agent shall
pay to the City the permit fee as provided by resolution of the Council.
   7.   Special Exceptions. A compliance permit for a special exception may be
issued by the Zoning Administrative Officer upon the order of the Board of
Adjustment.
165.24   VIOLATION AND PENALTY.
The violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
municipal infraction. Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or
refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be subject to a citation and penalty as established in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances. In case any building or structure is
erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or
maintained, or any building, structure of land is used in violation of this
chapter, the City Attorney, in addition to other remedies may institute any
proper action or proceed in the name of the City to prevent such unlawful
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion,
maintenance, conduct, business, or use in or about said premises.
165.25   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   1.   Confirmation of Existing Board. The members of the existing Board of
Adjustment are hereby confirmed to continue their appointed terms of office.
Future members of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed by the Council for
a term of five years. Members of the Board of Adjustment may be removed from
office by the Council for cause upon written charges and after a public
hearing. Vacancies shall be filled by the Council for the unexpired term of the
resigning member.
   2.   Proceedings of the Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment shall
adopt rules necessary to the conduct of its affairs, and in keeping with the
provisions of this chapter. Meetings shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board of Adjustment may determine.
The Chairperson, or in the absence of the Chairperson, the acting Chairperson,
may administer oaths and compel attendance of witnesses. All meetings shall be
open to the public. The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its
proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or
failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examination and other official actions, all of which shall be a public record
and be immediately filed in the office of the Zoning Administrative Officer.
The presence of three members shall constitute a quorum.
   3.   Hearings, Appeals, Notice. Appeals to the Board of Adjustment
concerning interpretation or administration of this chapter may be taken by any
person aggrieved or by any officer or bureau of the City affected by a decision
of the Zoning Administrative Officer. Such appeals should be taken within a
reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days, by filing with the Zoning
Administrative Officer and with the Board of Adjustment, a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof. The Zoning Administrative Officer shall
forthwith transmit to the Board of Adjustment all papers constituting the
record upon which the action appealed was taken. The Board of Adjustment shall
fix a reasonable time for the hearing of appeals, give public notices thereof,
as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a
reasonable time. At the hearing any party may appear in person, by agent, or
attorney. A fee to be determined by resolution of the Council shall be paid to
the Zoning Administrative Officer at the time the notice is filed.
   4.   Stay On Proceedings. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed, unless the Zoning Administrative Officer from whom the
appeal is taken certifies to the Board of Adjustment after the notice of appeal
is filed with such officer, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate,
a stay would, in the opinion of such officer, cause imminent peril to life and
property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a
restraining order which may be granted by the Board of Adjustment or by a court
of record on application, on notice to the Zoning Administrative Officer from
whom the appeal is taken and upon due cause shown.
   5.   Powers and Duties. The Board of Adjustment shall have the following
powers and duties:
      A.   Administrative Review. To hear and decide appeals where it is
alleged that there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Zoning Administrative Officer in the enforcement of
this chapter.
      B.   Special Exceptions. To hear and decide only such exceptions as the
Board of Adjustment is specifically authorized to pass on by the terms of this
chapter.
      C.   Variances. To authorize, upon appeal in specific cases, such
variance from the terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public
interest where, owing to the special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance
from the terms of this chapter shall not be granted by the Board of Adjustment
unless and until:
         (1)   A written application for a variance is submitted demonstrating:
            a.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are
peculiar to the land, structure, or building involved and which are not
applicable to other lands, structures, or buildings in the same district;
            b.   That literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same district under the terms of this chapter;
            c.   That the special conditions and circumstances do not result
from the actions of the applicant;
            d.   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other lands,
structures, or buildings in the same district.
      No nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures, or buildings in
the same district, and no permitted use of land, structures, or buildings in
other districts shall be considered grounds for the issuance of a variance.
         (2)   A public hearing shall be held, with the notice of such hearing
being provided according to State statute. If feasible, notice of the public
hearing shall be mailed to property owners within 200 feet of the proposed
variance.
         (3)   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the
reasons set forth in the application justify the granting of the variance, and
that the variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the
reasonable use of the land, building, or structure.
         (4)   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the
granting of the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of this chapter, and will not be injurious to the neighborhood, or otherwise
detrimental to the public welfare.
         (5)   The application for a variance shall be accompanied by a fee to
be determined by resolution of the Council.
      In granting any variance, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this chapter.
Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter.
   6.   Decisions of the Board of Adjustment. In exercising the above-mentioned
powers, the Board of Adjustment may, so long as such action is in conformity
with the terms of this chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may
modify the order, requirements, decision, or determination as ought to be made
and to that end shall have powers of the Zoning Administrative Officer from
whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of three members of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of the Zoning Administrative Officer, or to decide in favor of
the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this
chapter, or to effect any variation in application of this chapter.
   7.   Appeals From the Board of Adjustment. Any person, board, taxpayer,
department, or bureau of the community aggrieved by any decision of the Board
of Adjustment may seek review of such decision of the Board of Adjustment by a
court of record in the manner provided by Chapter 414 of the Code of Iowa. The
Council may vote to delay a decision of the Board of Adjustment for a 30-day
period, but such vote may not overrule a decision of the Board of Adjustment.
During the 30-day delay the Board of Adjustment may or may not review its
previous decision.
165.26   CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
This chapter and the districts created herein may be amended from time to time.
However, no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been proposed
by, or shall have been first submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission
for review and recommendation. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall have 30
days in which to submit its report to the Council. If the Planning and Zoning
Commission fails to submit a report within the 30-day period, it shall be
deemed to have approved the proposed amendment.
   1.   Public Hearing. A public hearing shall be held by the Council before
adoption of any proposed amendment to this chapter. A notice of such public
hearing shall be published according to Section 414.4 of the Code of Iowa. Such
notice shall include the time and place for the public hearing. In the case of
a written protest against a change or repeal which is filed with the Clerk and
signed by the owners of 20 percent or more of the area of the lots included in
the proposed change or repeal, or by the owners of 20 percent or more of the
property which is indicated within 200 feet of the exterior boundaries of the
property for which the change or repeal is proposed, the change or repeal shall
not become effective unless it receives the favorable vote of at least three-
fourths of all the members of the Council.
   2.   Application for Change in Zoning District Boundaries. Any person may
submit to the Council an application requesting a change in the zoning district
boundaries as shown on the Official Zoning Map. Such application shall be filed
with the Zoning Administrative Officer accompanied by a fee as determined by
resolution of the Council and shall contain the following information. Failure
to approve the requested change shall not be deemed cause to refund the fee to
the applicant.
      A.   The legal description and local address of the property.
      B.   The present zoning classification and the zoning classification
requested for the property.
      C.   The existing use and proposed use of the property.
      D.   The names and addresses of the owners of all property within 200
feet of the property for which the change is requested.
      E.   A statement of the reasons why the applicant feels the present
zoning classification is no longer valid.
      F.   A plat showing existing and proposed locations, dimensions, and use
of the applicant’s property and all property within 200 feet thereof, including
streets, alleys, railroads, and other physical features.
   3.   Upon receipt of the application by the Zoning Administrative Officer, a
copy shall be forwarded immediately to the Commission for study and
recommendation. The Commission shall, prior to making a recommendation,
determine the following:
      A.   Whether or not the current district classification of the property
to be rezoned is valid.
      B.   Whether there is a need for additional land zoned for the purpose
requested.
      C.   Whether the proposed change is consistent with the current land use
plan, considering such factors as:
         (1)   Whether the rezoning would result in a population density or
development which would in turn cause a demand for services and utilities in
excess of the capacity planned for the area; and
         (2)   Whether the rezoning would result in the generating of traffic
in excess of the capacity of existing or planned streets in the vicinity.
      D.   Whether there is an intent on the part of the applicant to develop
the property to be rezoned diligently and within a reasonable time.
   4.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold a public hearing (the
notice of which shall be according to State statute) and report its
determinations and recommendations to the Council within 30 days from receipt
of the application, except that when no report is issued within that time, the
application will be deemed approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission. If
feasible, notice of the public hearing will be mailed to all property owners
within 200 feet of the proposal.
CHAPTER 167
AIRPORT TALL STRUCTURE ZONING REGULATIONS
 
167.01 Short Title                     167.08 Enforcement
167.02 Definitions                     167.09 Airport Zoning Administrator
167.03 Airport Zones                   167.10 Airport Board of Adjustment
167.04 Airport Zone Height Limitations 167.11 Appeals
167.05 Use Restrictions                167.12 Judicial Review
167.06 Nonconforming Uses              167.13 Penalties
167.07 Permits                         167.14 Conflicting Regulations
 
167.01   SHORT TITLE.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Airport Tall Structure
Zoning Ordinance.
167.02   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Airport” means the Rockwell City Airport.
   2.   “Airport elevation” means the highest point of an airport’s usable
landing area measured in feet from sea level.
   3.   “Approach surface” means a surface longitudinally centered on the
extended runway centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the
primary surface and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation
slope set forth in Section
167.04 of this chapter. In plan the perimeter of the approach surface coincides
with the perimeter of the approach zone.
   4.   “Approach, transitional, horizontal, and conical zones” means the zones
set forth in Section
167.03 of this chapter.
   5.   “Board of Adjustment” means a board consisting of five members
appointed by the Council or Board of Supervisors as provided in Chapter 329.12
of the Code of Iowa.
   6.   “Conical surface” means a surface extending outward and upward from the
periphery of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20 to one for a horizontal
distance of 4,000 feet.
   7.   “Hazard to air navigation” means an obstruction determined to have a
substantial adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the
navigable airspace.
   8.   “Height” means for the purpose of determining the height limits in all
zones set forth in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be
mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   9.   “Horizontal surface” means a horizontal plane 150 feet above the
established airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides with
the perimeter of the horizontal zone.
   10.   “Larger than utility runway” means a runway that is constructed for
and intended to be used by propeller driven aircraft of greater than 12,500
pounds maximum gross weight and jet powered aircraft.
   11.   “Nonconforming use” means any pre-existing structure, object of
natural growth, or use of land which is inconsistent with the provision of the
chapter or an amendment thereto.
   12.   “Nonprecision instrument runway” means a runway having an existing
instrument approach, procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only
horizontal guidance, or area type navigation equipment, for which a straight-in
nonprecision instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned.
   13.   “Obstruction” means any structure, growth, or other object, including
a mobile object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth in Section 167.04.
   14.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint stock association, or governmental entity; includes a
trustee, a receiver, an assignee, or a similar representative of any of them.
   15.   “Primary surface” means a surface longitudinally centered on a runway.
When the runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface
extends 200 feet beyond each end of that runway; for military runways or when
the runway has no specially prepared hard surface, or planned hard surface, the
primary surface ends at each end of that runway. The width of the primary
surface is set forth in Section
167.03. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the
elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
   16.   “Runway” means a defined area on an airport prepared for landing and
takeoff of aircraft along its length.
   17.   “Structure” means an object, including a mobile object, constructed,
or installed by man, including but without limitation, buildings, towers,
cranes, smokestacks, earth formation, and overhead transmission lines.
   18.   “Transitional surfaces” means these surfaces extend outward at 90
degree angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a
slope of seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the
primary and approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and
conical surfaces. Transitional surfaces for those portions of the precision
approach surfaces, which project through and beyond the limits of the conical
surface, extend a distance of 5,000 feet measured horizontally from the edge of
the approach surface at 90 degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
   19.   “Tree” means any object of natural growth.
   20.   “Utility runway” means a runway that is constructed for and intended
to be used by propeller driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight
and less.
   21.   “Visual runway” means a runway intended solely for the operation of
aircraft using visual approach procedures.
167.03   AIRPORT ZONES.
In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, there are hereby created
and established certain zones which include all of that land lying beneath the
approach surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal surfaces, and conical
surfaces as they apply to the Airport. Such zones are shown on the Airport
Zoning Map which is made a part hereof and is on file in the offices of the
City. An area located in more than one of the following zones is considered to
be only in the zone with the more restrictive height limitation. The various
zones are hereby established and defined as follows:
   1.   Utility Runway Nonprecision Instrument Approach Zone (20:1 Zone). The
inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary
surface and is 500 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a
width of 2,000 feet at a horizontal distance 5,000 feet from the primary
surface. Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
   2.   Runway Larger than Utility with A Visibility Minimum Greater than
Three-Fourths Mile Nonprecision Instrument Approach Zone (34:1 Zone). The inner
edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and
is 500 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of
3,500 feet at a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary surface.
Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
   3.   Horizontal Zone. The horizontal zone is established by swinging arcs of
5,000 feet radii for all runways designated utility or visual and 10,000 feet
for all others from the center of each end of the primary surface of each
runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to those arcs.
The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transitional zones.
   4.   Conical Zone. The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom
a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.
   5.   Transitional Zone. The transitional zone is established as the areas
under the transitional surfaces.
   6.   Runway Protection Zone (RPZ). The runway protection zone is established
as an area off the end of the runway intended to enhance the protection of
people and property on the ground.
167.04   AIRPORT ZONE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure shall be erected,
altered, or maintained, and no tree shall be allowed to grow in any zone
created by this chapter to a height in excess of the applicable height limit
herein established for such zone. Such applicable height limitations are hereby
established for each of the zones in question as follows:
   1.   Utility Runway Nonprecision Instrument Approach Zone (20:1 Zone).
Slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the
same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of
5,000 feet along the extended runway centerline. This approach zone shall apply
to Runway Ends 3 and 21.
   2.   Runway Larger than Utility with A Visibility Minimum Greater than
Three-Fourths Mile Nonprecision Instrument Approach Zone (34:1 Zone). Slopes 34
feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same
elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of
10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline. This approach zone shall
apply to Runway Ends 13 and 31.
   3.   Transitional Zone. Slopes seven feet outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and
the approach surface, and extending to a height of 150 feet above the airport
elevation which is 1,009 feet above mean sea level. In addition to the
foregoing, there are established height limits sloping seven feet outward for
each foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the
approach surface, and extending to where they intersect the conical surface.
   4.   Horizontal Zone. Established at 150 feet above the airport elevation or
at a height of 1,367 feet above mean sea level.
   5.   Conical Zone. Slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward beginning at
the periphery of the horizontal zone and at 150 feet above the airport
elevation and extending to a height of 350 feet above the airport elevation.
   6.   Certain Structures Prohibited. No structure shall be erected in the
City or County that raises the published minimum descent altitude of decision
height for an instrument approach to any runway, nor shall any structure be
erected that causes the minimum obstruction clearance altitude or minimum
enroute altitude to be increased on any federal airway in the City or County.
167.05   USE RESTRICTIONS.
   1.   Generally. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, no use
may be made of land or water within any zone established by this chapter in
such a manner as to create electrical interference with navigational signals or
radio communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for
pilots to distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the
eyes of pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the
airport, create bird strike hazards, or otherwise in any way endanger or
interfere with the landing, takeoff, or maneuvering of aircraft intending to
use the airport.
   2.   Landfill Restrictions. Landfills and waste disposal sites shall not be
located within 5.75 miles of the Airport.
   3.   Permitted Uses in the Runway Protection Zones (RPZ). The following uses
are permitted in the RPZs provided they do not attract wildlife, are outside
the Runway OFA as shown on the Rockwell City Airport Layout Plan, and do not
interfere with navigational aids: Golf courses (but not club houses) and
agricultural operations (other than forestry or livestock farms) are expressly
permitted under this proviso. Automobile parking facilities, although
discouraged, may be permitted, provided the parking facilities and any
associated appurtenances, in addition to meeting all of the preceding
conditions, are located outside of the OFA extension.
   4.   Prohibited Uses in the Runway Protection Zones (RPZ). Land uses
prohibited from the RPZ are: residences and places of public assembly such as
churches, schools, hospitals, office buildings, shopping centers, and other
uses with similar concentrations of persons typifying places of public
assembly, and fuel storage facilities.
167.06   NONCONFORMING USES.
   1.   Regulations Not Retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this chapter
shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other change or
alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the
effective date of the ordinance codified by this chapter, or otherwise
interfere with the continuance of nonconforming use. Nothing contained herein
shall require any change in the construction, alteration, or intended use of
any structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the
effective date of the ordinance codified by this chapter and which is completed
within one year thereafter.
   2.   Marking and Lighting. Notwithstanding the preceding provision of this
section, the owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is hereby
required to permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such
markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Airport Zoning
Administrator to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the
airport the presence of such airport obstruction. Such markers and lights shall
be installed, operated, and maintained at the expense of the Airport.
167.07   PERMITS.
The Airport Zoning Administrator shall review the development or planting of
any structure or growth within the airport zones to assure compliance with the
height limitations as established in Section
167.04.
   1.   No City Permit Required. No City permit shall be required for the
construction or alteration of any structure or growth of any tree if the height
of said structure or tree falls into the following categories:
      A.   No permit shall be required for any structure or growth of any tree
up to a height of 50 feet above the surface of the land.
      B.   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any structure or growth of any
trees less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when,
because of terrain, land contour, or topographic features, such tree or
structure would extend above the height limits prescribed for such zones.
      C.   In the area lying within the limits of the transitional zones beyond
the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for any
structure or growth of any tree less than 75 feet of vertical height above the
ground, except when such tree or structure, because of terrain, land contour,
or topographic features, would extend above the height limit prescribed for
such transitional zones.
      D.   In addition, in any of the individual areas described in Paragraphs
B and C above, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure which
regardless of its proposed vertical height above the ground does not extend to
as great a height above sea level as any of the natural terrain located
directly between the location of the proposed tree or structure and any portion
of the existing or proposed Airport runways.
   The foregoing exceptions shall not be construed as permitting or intending
to permit any construction, or alteration of any structure, or growth of any
tree in excess of any of the height limits established by this chapter except
as set forth in Paragraph A.
   2.   City Permit Required. A City permit shall be required when the
construction or alteration of any structure or growth of any tree exceeds the
height limitations of the foregoing exceptions as set forth in Paragraphs A, B,
or C above. An application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which
the permit is desired, with sufficient information to allow it to be determined
whether the resulting use, structure, or tree would conform to the regulations
hereby prescribed. If such determination is in the affirmative, the permit
shall be granted. No permit for a use inconsistent with the provisions of this
chapter shall be granted unless a variance has been approved in accordance with
Section 167.07(4).
   3.   Existing Uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an obstruction or permit a nonconforming use,
structure, or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the effective date of the ordinance codified by this chapter, or any amendments
thereto, or than it is when the application for a permit is made. Except as
indicated, all applications for such a permit shall be granted.
   4.   Variances. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use property, not in accordance
with the regulations prescribed in the chapter, may apply to the Board of
Adjustment for a variance from such regulations. However, no such variance
shall be granted unless the Board finds, based upon written advice from the
Federal Aviation Administration, that:
      A.   In an application to permit any structure, tree, or use of land to
exceed the height or use limitations of this chapter, that such structure,
tree, or use of land, would not obstruct landing and takeoff of aircraft at the
Airport.
      B.   In an application to permit a use of land otherwise prohibited
herein, that such use would not be incompatible with airport operations.
   An applicant for a variance hereunder shall, as part of the application
submitted to the Board of Adjustment, file the required written advice of the
Federal Aviation Administration. No application for a variance hereunder shall
be set for hearing by the Board of Adjustment until such advice has been filed.
Such advice shall not be binding upon the Board of Adjustment, but shall be one
of the factors considered by the Board of Adjustment when reaching its
decision.
   5.   Obstruction Marking and Lighting. Any permit or variance granted may,
if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this chapter
and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the
owner of the structure or tree in question to install, operate, and maintain,
at the owner’s expense, such markings and lights as may be necessary. If deemed
proper by the Board of Adjustment, this condition may be modified to require
the owner to permit the Airport, at its own expense, to install, operate, and
maintain the necessary markings and lights.
   6.   FAA Permit Required. The following construction or alterations shall
require the filing of FAA Form 7460-1, Notice of Proposed Construction or
Alteration: (1) any construction or alteration of more than 200 feet in height
above the ground level at its site; (2) any construction or alteration of
greater height than an imaginary surface which extends outward and upward and
slopes 100 feet outward distance for each foot upward for a horizontal distance
of 20,000 feet from the nearest point of the nearest runway of the airport.
      A.   FAA Form 7460-1 Time of Notice. The notice required under FAA Part
77, Objects Affecting Navigable Airspace, Section 77.13(a)(1-4) must be
submitted at least 30 days before the earlier of the following dates:
         (1)   The date the proposed construction or alteration is to begin;
         (2)   The date an application for a construction permit is to be
filed.
   However, a notice relating to proposed construction or alteration that is
subject to the licensing requirements of the Federal Communications Act may be
sent to FAA at the same time the application for construction is filed with the
Federal Communications Commission, or at any time before that filing.
167.08   ENFORCEMENT.
It shall be the duty of the Airport Zoning Administrator to administer and
enforce the regulations prescribed herein. Applications for permits and
variances shall be made to the Airport Zoning Administrator upon a form
published for that purpose. Applications required by this chapter to be
submitted to the Airport Zoning Administrator shall be promptly considered and
granted or denied. Application for action by the Board of Adjustment shall be
forthwith transmitted by the Airport Zoning Administrator.
167.09   AIRPORT ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
The Zoning Administrative Officer shall be Airport Zoning Administrator.
167.10   AIRPORT BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   1.   Created; Powers. There is hereby created a Board of Adjustment to have
and exercise the following powers:
      A.   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Airport Zoning Administrator in the enforcement of
this chapter;
      B.   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this chapter
upon which such Board of Adjustment under such regulations may be required to
pass; and
      C.   To hear and decide specific variances.
   2.   Membership; Terms; Removal of Members. The Board of Adjustment shall
consist of five members appointed by the Council or County Board of Supervisors
and each shall serve for a term of five years until a successor is duly
appointed and qualified. Of the members first appointed, one shall be appointed
for a term of five years, one for a term of four years, one for a term of three
years, one for a term of two years and one for a term of one year. Members
shall be removable by the appointing authority for cause, upon written charges
after a public hearing.
   3.   Organization; Meetings; Minutes; Records. The Board of Adjustment shall
adopt rules for its governance and in harmony with the provisions of this
chapter. Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board of Adjustment may determine.
The Chairperson or, in the absence of the Chairperson, the acting Chairperson
may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All hearings of
the Board of Adjustment shall be public. The Board of Adjustment shall keep
minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question;
or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records
of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall immediately
be filed in the office of the Airport Zoning Administrator and on due cause
shown.
   4.   Written Findings of Fact. The Board of Adjustment shall make written
findings of fact and conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted
and its legal conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming, or modifying
any order, requirement, decision, or determination which comes before it under
the provisions of this chapter.
   5.   Voting. The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board
of Adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision,
or determination of the Airport Zoning Administrator, or decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this chapter,
or to effect variation to this chapter.
167.11   APPEALS.
   1.   Generally. Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any
decision of the Airport Zoning Administrator made in the administration of the
chapter, may appeal to the Board of Adjustment.
   2.   Filing. All appeals hereunder must be taken within a reasonable time as
provided by the rules of the Board of Adjustment, by filing with the Airport
Zoning Administrator a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The
Airport Zoning Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the Board of
Adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed from was taken.
   3.   Staying of Proceedings. An appeal shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from unless the Airport Zoning Administrator
certifies to the Board of Adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed
with it, that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in
the opinion of the Airport Zoning Administrator, cause imminent peril to life
or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed except by the order
of the Board of Adjustment on notice to the Airport Zoning Administrator and on
due cause shown.
   4.   Time; Public Notice; Decision of Board. The Board of Adjustment shall
fix a reasonable time for hearing appeals, give public notice and due notice to
the parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the
hearing, any party may appear in person, or by agent, or by attorney.
   5.   Affirming, Reversing, etc. The Board of Adjustment may, in conformity
with the provision of this chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or
modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may
make such order, requirement, decision, or determination as may be appropriate
under the circumstances.
167.12   JUDICIAL REVIEW.
Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the Board of
Adjustment, may appeal to the Court of Record as provided in Section 414.5 of
the Code of Iowa.
167.13   PENALTIES.
A violation of this chapter or of any regulation, order, or ruling promulgated
hereunder shall constitute a violation of this Code of Ordinances. Each day a
violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
167.14   CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this chapter and any other regulation applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height of structures or
trees, and the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation
or requirement shall govern and prevail.
CHAPTER 170
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
170.01 Purpose                          170.28 Release or Reduction of
                                        Performance Bond
170.02 Policy                           170.29 Maintenance of Improvements
170.03 Application and Jurisdiction     170.30 Deferral or Waiver of Required
                                        Improvements
170.04 Interpretation                   170.31 Issuance of Certificates of
                                        Occupancy
170.05 Action Under Prior Provisions    170.32 Improvements Required
170.06 Definitions                      170.33 Design Standards Are Minimum
170.07 Procedure                        170.34 Conformance to Applicable Rules
                                        and Regulations
170.08 Pre-Submission Consultations     170.35 Subdivision Name
170.09 Requirements of Preliminary Plat 170.36 Monumentation
170.10 Submission of Preliminary Plat   170.37 Character of the Land
170.11 Referral of Preliminary Plat     170.38 Lots
170.12 Review of Preliminary Plat       170.39 Blocks
170.13 Action by the Planning and       170.40 Streets - General Requirements
Zoning Commission
170.14 Action by Council                170.41 Streets - Design Standards
170.15 Effective Period of Tentative    170.42 Storm Sewers and Drainage
Approval
170.16 Completion of Improvements       170.43 Water Facilities
170.17 Performance Bond                 170.44 Sewage Facilities
170.18 Final Plat                       170.45 Sidewalks
170.19 Requirements of the Final Plat   170.46 Utilities
170.20 Submission of Final Plat         170.47 Preservation of Natural Features
                                        and Amenities
170.21 Referral of Final Plat           170.48 Nonresidential Subdivisions
170.22 Action by the Planning and       170.49 School and Park Reservations
Zoning Commission
170.23 Action by the Council            170.50 Improvements within
                                        Unincorporated Jurisdiction
170.24 Resubdivision of Land            170.51 Variations and Exceptions
170.25 Completion of Improvements       170.52 Changes and Amendments
170.26 Performance Bond                 170.53 Enforcement, Violations, and
                                        Penalties
170.27 Inspection of Improvements        
 
170.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum standards for the design,
development, and improvement of all new subdivisions and resubdivisions so that
existing developments will be protected and so that adequate provisions are
made for public services and to promote the health, safety, and general
welfare.
170.02   POLICY.
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the City to consider the subdivision
of land and the subsequent development of the subdivided land as subject to the
control of the City to provide for the orderly, efficient, and economical
development of the City. And further:
   1.   Character of Land. Land to be subdivided shall be of such character
that it can be used safely for building purposes without danger to health or
peril from fire, flood, or other menace.
   2.   Regulations to Supplement and Facilitate. It is intended that these
subdivision regulations shall supplement and facilitate the enforcement of
provisions and standards, ordinances, or regulations of the City.
170.03   APPLICATION AND JURISDICTION.
Every owner or agent of any tract or parcel of land lying within the City or,
pursuant to Section 354.9 of the Code of Iowa, within two miles of the
corporate limits of the City who has subdivided or shall hereafter subdivide
the same into three or more parts for the purpose of laying out an addition,
subdivision, building lot or lots, or acreage lots, shall cause plats of such
area to be made in the form, and containing the information, as hereinafter set
forth before selling any lots therein contained or placing the plat on record.
170.04   INTERPRETATION.
In their interpretation or application, the provisions of these regulations
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
health, safety, and general welfare. Specifically:
   1.   Relationship to Other Public Provisions. These regulations are not
intended to interfere with or to abrogate or annul any other ordinance, rule or
regulation, statute, or other provision of law. Where any provision of these
regulations imposes a restriction different from those imposed by any other
provision of these regulations or any other ordinance, rule or regulation, or
other provision of law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose
higher standards shall control.
   2.   Relationship to Private Provisions. These regulations are not intended
to abrogate any easement, covenant, or any other private agreement or
restriction, provided that where the provisions of these regulations are more
restrictive or impose higher standards or regulations than such easement,
covenant, or other private agreement or restriction, the requirements of these
regulations shall govern.
170.05   ACTION UNDER PRIOR PROVISIONS.
These regulations do not abate any action now pending under or by virtue of
prior existing subdivision regulations. Nor do they discontinue, abate, modify,
or alter any penalty accrued or about to accrue or affect the liability of any
person or waive any right of the City under any section or provision existing
at the time of adoption of these regulations. Nor do they vacate or annul any
rights obtained by any person by lawful action of the City, except as expressed
in these regulations.
170.06   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   Words beginning with “A.”
      A.   “Alley” means a public or private right-of-way primarily designed to
serve as secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose
principal frontage is on some other street.
      B.   “Applicant” means the owner of land to be subdivided or said owner’s
representative.
   2.   Words beginning with “B.”
      A.   “Block” means a tract of land bounded by streets or by a combination
of streets and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines of
waterways, or corporate boundaries.
      B.   “Bond” means any form of security including a cash deposit, surety
bond, collateral, property, or instrument of credit in an amount and form
satisfactory to the Council.
      C.   “Building” means any structure built for support, shelter, or
enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or moveable property of any kind, and
includes any structure.
   3.   Words beginning with “C.”
      A.   “Central sewage system” means a private sewer system, including
collection and treatment facilities, established by the developer to serve a
new subdivision or resubdivision.
      B.   “Central water system” means a private water system established by
the developer to serve a new subdivision or resubdivision. It includes water
treatment and distribution facilities.
      C.   “City Engineer” means the person designated by the Council to
furnish engineering assistance for the administration of these regulations.
      D.   “Commission” means the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City.
      E.   “Cul-de-sac” means a municipal service street with only one outlet
and having an appropriate terminal for safe and convenient reversal of traffic
movement.
   4.   Words beginning with “D.”
      A.   “Developer” means the owner of land proposed to be subdivided (or
said owner’s representative).
   5.   Words beginning with “E.”
      A.   “Easement” means an authorization by a property owner for the use by
another, and for a specified purpose, of any designated part of said person’s
property.
   6.   Words beginning with “F.”
      A.   “Frontage” means that portion of a lot abutting on a street or way
and complying with the setback and front yard requirements as they may exist,
but it is not considered as the side of a corner lot.
   7.   Words beginning with “G.”
   8.   Words beginning with “H.”
   9.   Words beginning with “I.”
      A.   “Individual sewage disposal system” means a septic tank, seepage
tile sewage disposal system, or any other approved sewage treatment device.
   10.   Words beginning with “J.”
   11.   Words beginning with “K.”
   12.   Words beginning with “L.”
      A.   “Local board of health” means a County, City, or District Board of
Health.
      B.   “Lot” means a portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land
intended for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership, or for building development.
   13.   Words beginning with “M.”
      A.   “Municipal arterial streets” means those streets which connect
principal traffic generating areas or connect such areas with other street
systems.
      B.   “Municipal collector streets” mean those streets that collect
traffic from municipal service streets and connect to other street systems.
      C.   “Municipal service streets” means those streets that primarily
provide access to property.
   14.   Words beginning with “N.”
   15.   Words beginning with “O.”
      A.   “Owner” means any person having legal title to or sufficient
proprietary interest in the land to be sought to be subdivided under these
regulations.
   16.   Words beginning with “P.”
      A.   “Plat” means a map, drawing, or chart on which the developer’s plan
of the subdivision of land is presented and which the developer submits for
approval and intends, in final form, to record.
      B.   “Public improvement” means any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway,
sidewalk, pedestrian crosswalk, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot
improvement, or other facility for which the City may ultimately assume the
responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an
improvement for which City responsibility is established.
   17.   Words beginning with “Q.”
   18.   Words beginning with “R.”
      A.   “Right-of-way” means a strip of land occupied or intended to be
occupied by a street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line,
oil or gas pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees, or
for another special use. The usage of the term “right-of-way” for land platting
purposes means that every right-of-way hereafter established and shown on a
final plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining
such right-of-way and not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots
or parcels. Rights-of-way intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains,
sanitary sewers, storm drains, or any other use involving maintenance by a
public agency shall be dedicated to public use by the maker of the plat on
which such right-of-way is established.
      B.   “Roadway” means that portion of the street available for vehicular
traffic and where curbs are laid, the portion from back-to-back of curbs.
   19.   Words beginning with “S.”
      A.   “Street” means and includes any public way, highway, street, avenue,
boulevard, parkway, or other public thoroughfare, and each of such words
includes every other of them, and also includes the entire width between
property lines.
      B.   “Subdivider” means the person undertaking the subdivision or
resubdivision of a tract or parcel of land.
      C.   “Subdivision” means the division of land into three or more lots or
other division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
transfer of ownership or building development. The term, when appropriate to
the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided,
or the resubdivision of land heretofore divided or platted into lots or other
divisions of land, or, if a new street is involved, any division of land.
      D.   “Surveyor” means a land surveyor licensed and registered under the
provisions of Chapter 542B of the Code of Iowa.
   20.   Words beginning with “T.”
   21.   Words beginning with “U.”
   22.   Words beginning with “V.”
   23.   Words beginning with “W.”
   24.   Words beginning with “X.”
   25.   Words beginning with “Y.”
   26.   Words beginning with “Z.”
170.07   PROCEDURE.
Before seeking tentative approval of a proposed subdivision by the Council, the
subdivider shall submit a preliminary plat in accordance with the requirements
of Section
170.09 and install the required improvements or provide a performance bond.
170.08   PRE-SUBMISSION CONSULTATIONS.
Prior to the submission of the preliminary plat of any subdivision, the
subdivider is encouraged to meet with the City Engineer and other City
officials responsible for the administration of these regulations to be advised
of the procedural steps, design standards, required improvements, and platting
requirements. During such meetings, no commitments shall be made which will be
binding upon the City.
170.09   REQUIREMENTS OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
Every proposed subdivision shall be submitted for tentative approval in the
form of a preliminary plat prior to the submission of a final record plat. The
purpose of the preliminary plat and accompanying material is to provide all
facts needed for the Council to determine whether the proposed subdivision is
satisfactory from the standpoint of the public interest. The following graphic
and descriptive material is required to be provided on the preliminary plat and
on the accompanying material.
   1.   Contents of Preliminary Plat. The preliminary plat shall be prepared by
a registered land surveyor at a convenient scale of not more than one-inch
equals 100 feet (1 inch = 100 feet), may be prepared in pen or pencil, and the
sheets shall be numbered in sequence if more than one sheet is used. The
following information shall be shown on the preliminary plat:
      A.   Title, scale, north point, and date.
      B.   Subdivision boundary lines, showing dimensions, bearings, angles,
and references to section, townships, and range lines or corners. Exterior
boundaries are to be indicated with a solid heavy line.
      C.   Present and proposed streets, alleys and sidewalks, with their
rights-of-way, in or adjoining the subdivision, including dedicated widths,
approximate gradients, types and widths of surfaces, curbs, and planting
strips, and location of streetlights, fire hydrants, and street signs.
      D.   Proposed layout of blocks and lots, showing dimensions, radii,
chords, and the square foot areas of lots that are not rectangular, and the lot
and block numbers in numerical order.
      E.   Building setback or front yard lines.
      F.   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for schools,
parks, playgrounds, or other public, semi-public, or community purposes.
      G.   Present and proposed easements, showing locations, widths, purposes,
and limitations.
      H.   Location and names of adjoining parcels of unsubdivided and
subdivided land.
      I.   Boundaries of the highest known flood of record affecting the
subdivision and the source of information.
      J.   If the proposed subdivision borders on a lake or stream, the
distances and bearings of meander lines established not less than 20 feet back
from the mean high-water mark of the lake or stream.
      K.   Existing blocks, lots, and buildings.
      L.   Present and proposed utility systems, including sanitary and storm
sewers, other drainage facilities, water lines, gas mains, electric utilities,
and other facilities, with the size, capacity, invert elevation, and location
of each. If the subdivision is within one mile of public sewer, or water, or
both, notation shall be made of the direction and distance to such facilities.
      M.   Proposed name of the subdivision.
      N.   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, builder, and surveyor
who prepared the preliminary plat, and the surveyor who will prepare the final
plat.
      O.   Official legal description of the property being platted.
      P.   Contours at vertical intervals of not more than two feet if the
general slope of the site is less than 10 percent and at vertical intervals of
not more than five feet if the general slope is 10 percent or greater.
      Q.   Existing and proposed zoning of the proposed subdivision and
adjoining property.
      R.   Location of all proposed monuments.
   2.   Information to Be Provided in Accompanying Material. The following
information shall accompany a plat when filing:
      A.   A complete listing of all existing covenants which apply to the land
to be subdivided, and a complete listing of all covenants which are proposed by
the developer to apply to the subdivided land.
      B.   A table of the following information:
         (1)   Total acreage of the subdivision.
         (2)   Total number of lots.
         (3)   Minimum, average, and maximum lot area.
         (4)   Acreage of public lands to be dedicated or reserved other than
streets.
      C.   If any portion of the subdivision is to have access on a State or
County jurisdictional street, a written and signed statement acknowledging and
permitting the access by the duly authorized official of the appropriate
jurisdiction.
      D.   Specifications and engineering construction drawings including
profiles, cross-sections, and details of all public improvements. Elevations
shall be referred to mean sea level as exhibited in standard U.S. Geological
Survey Maps. Specifications and references shall meet those required by the
City’s construction and specification standards, including a site grading plan
for the entire subdivision.
170.10   SUBMISSION OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat in accordance with the
provisions of Section 170.09 and shall file with the Clerk an application in
triplicate for the tentative approval of the plat. The application shall:
   1.   Forms and Fees. Be made on forms available from the Clerk together with
a fee of $10.00 per lot.
   2.   Number of Plats. Be accompanied by a minimum of 10 copies of the
preliminary plat.
   3.   Time of Submission. Be presented to the Clerk at least four weeks prior
to the meeting of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
170.11   REFERRAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
The Clerk shall immediately refer two copies of the preliminary plat to the
City Engineer and seven copies to the Planning and Zoning Commission. In the
case of a subdivision outside the corporate limits of the City, the Clerk shall
refer one copy of the preliminary plat to the County Board of Supervisors.
170.12   REVIEW OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
The preliminary plat shall be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission to
determine its conformity with these regulations and all other ordinances and
regulations in force affecting subdivisions. Copies of the preliminary plat may
be transmitted to other City or school officials, as the Planning and Zoning
Commission deems necessary, for their recommendations concerning matters within
their jurisdiction. Their recommendations, along with those of the City
Engineer, shall be transmitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission within
three weeks after the date the plat is filed. The Planning and Zoning
Commission may confer with the subdivider on changes deemed advisable and the
kind and extent of such improvements to be made.
170.13   ACTION BY THE PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
The Planning and Zoning Commission, as soon as possible, but within 30 days
after receiving the preliminary plat, shall pass upon the preliminary plat as
originally submitted or modified. If the Planning and Zoning Commission does
not act within 30 days, the preliminary plat shall be deemed to be approved;
provided, however, the subdivider may agree to an extension of the time period,
not to exceed an additional 60 days. It shall then set forth its
recommendations in writing, whether of approval, modification, or disapproval.
   1.   Reasons for Changes or Disapproval. In the event that substantial
changes or modifications are made by the Planning and Zoning Commission or the
Planning and Zoning Commission recommends disapproval of the plat, it shall
give its reasons therefor and it may request and cause the revised preliminary
plat to be resubmitted in the same manner as the original plat.
   2.   Tentative Approval. If the Planning and Zoning Commission recommends
approval, it shall express its approval as “Tentative Approval” and state the
conditions of such approval, if any.
   3.   Documenting Approval. The action of the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall be documented on seven copies of the preliminary plat, referenced, and
attached to any conditions determined. One copy shall be returned to the
subdivider, one copy shall be retained by the Planning and Zoning Commission,
and five copies shall be referred to the Council.
170.14   ACTION BY COUNCIL.
Within 30 days of its receipt of the preliminary plat, the Council shall, by
resolution, tentatively approve or disapprove the plat. If the preliminary plat
is disapproved, objections to it shall be returned to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for further review and the Clerk shall notify the subdivider of such
action. If approved, the Clerk shall affix their signature to five copies of
the preliminary plat with the notation of the date the preliminary plat
received the Council’s tentative approval. One copy shall be returned to the
Planning and Zoning Commission and three copies shall be returned to the
subdivider. The tentative approval by the Council shall not constitute final
acceptance of the addition or subdivision by the City but an authorization to
proceed with preparation of the final plat.
170.15   EFFECTIVE PERIOD OF TENTATIVE APPROVAL.
The tentative approval of a preliminary plat shall be effective for a period of
one year at the end of which time final approval must have been obtained. Any
plat not receiving final approval within this period of time shall be void, and
the subdivider shall be required to resubmit a new plat for tentative approval
subject to all new zoning restrictions and subdivision regulations.
170.16   COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
Before the Council will approve the final plat, all of the required
improvements shall be constructed and either accepted by formal resolution of
the Council. Before passage of said resolution of acceptance, the City Engineer
shall report that said improvements meet all City specifications and ordinances
or other City requirements, and the agreements between subdivider and the City.
170.17   PERFORMANCE BOND.
The completion requirement for improvements may be waived, in whole or in part,
if the subdivider will post a performance bond with the Council guaranteeing
that improvements not completed will be constructed within a period of one year
from final acceptance of the plat. However, final acceptance of the plat will
not constitute final acceptance by the City of any improvements to be
constructed. Improvements will be accepted only after their construction has
been completed. Such performance bond shall be satisfactory to the City
Attorney as to form, sufficiency, and manner of execution. Upon recommendation
of the Planning and Zoning Commission, the Council may extend the completion
date set forth in the bond for a maximum period of one additional year.
170.18   FINAL PLAT.
The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as approved,
and, if desired by the subdivider, it may constitute only that portion of the
approved preliminary plat which the subdivider proposes to record and develop
at the time, provided, however, that such portion conforms to all requirements
of these regulations.
170.19   REQUIREMENTS OF THE FINAL PLAT.
The following graphic and descriptive material is required to be provided on
the final plat and in the accompanying material.
   1.   Contents of the Final Plat. Every plat of a subdivision offered for
record shall conform to all of the following provisions where applicable:
      A.   The plat shall be a permanent copy or a photographic print made on a
stable plastic film. Exact copies of the plat to be recorded shall be provided
to and filed with the County Recorder, Assessor, and Auditor. The original plat
drawing shall remain the property of the registered land surveyor.
      B.   The size of each sheet showing any portion of the subdivided lands
shall not be greater than 18 inches by 24 inches or less than eight and one-
half inches by 11 inches.
      C.   Whenever more than one sheet is used to accurately portray the lands
subdivided, each sheet shall display the number of the sheet and the total
number of sheets included in the plat, as well as clearly labeled match lines
indicating where the other sheets adjoin. An index sheet shall be provided to
show the relationship between the sheets.
      D.   A maximum scale of 100 feet to one inch shall be used. The scale
used shall be clearly stated and graphically illustrated by a bar scale drawn
on every sheet showing any portion of the lands subdivided.
      E.   Subdivisions shall be designated, by name or as otherwise
prescribed, in bold letters inside the margin at the top of each sheet included
in the plat.
      F.   An arrow indicating the northern direction shall be drawn in a
prominent place on each sheet included in the plat, as well as the scale and
date.
      G.   All monuments to be of record shall be adequately described and
clearly identified on the plat. When additional monuments are to be established
subsequent to the recording of the plat, the location of the additional
monuments shall be shown on the plat.
      H.   Sufficient survey data shall be shown to positively describe the
bounds of every lot, block, street, easement, or other areas shown on the plat,
as well as the outer boundaries of the subdivided lands.
      I.   All distances shall be shown in feet to the nearest one-hundredth of
a foot, and in accordance with the definition of a foot adopted by the United
States Bureau of Standards. All measurements shall refer to the horizontal
plane.
      J.   The course of every boundary line shown on the plat shall be
indicated by a direct bearing reference or by an angle between the boundary
line and an intersecting line having a shown bearing, except when the boundary
line has an irregular or constantly changing course, as along a body of water,
or when a description of the boundary line is better achieved by measurements
shown at points or intervals along a meander line having a shown course. All
bearings and angles shown shall be given to at least the nearest minute of arc.
      K.   Curve data shall be stated in terms of radius, central angle and
tangent, or length of curve. In all cases, the curve data must be shown for the
line affected.
      L.   The minimum unadjusted acceptable error of closure for all
subdivision boundaries shall be 1:10,000 and shall be 1:5,000 for any
individual lot.
      M.   When any lot or portion of the subdivision is bounded by an
irregular line, the major portion of that lot or subdivision shall be enclosed
by a meander line showing complete data with distances along all lines
extending beyond the enclosure to the irregular boundary shown with as much
certainty as can be determined or as “more or less,” if variable. In all cases,
the true boundary shall be clearly indicated on the plat.
      N.   All interior excepted parcels shall be clearly indicated and
labeled, “not a part of this plat.”
      O.   All adjoining properties shall be identified and where such
adjoining properties are a part of a recorded subdivision, the name of that
subdivision shall be shown. If the subdivision platted is a resubdivision of a
part or the whole of a previously recorded subdivision, sufficient ties shall
be shown to controlling lines appearing on the earlier plat to permit an
overlay to be made. Re-subdivisions shall be labeled as such in a subtitle
following the name of the subdivision wherever the name appears on the plat.
      P.   The purpose of any easement shown on the plat shall be clearly
stated and shall be confined to only those easements pertaining to public
utilities including gas, power, telephone, water, sewer, and such drainage
easements as are deemed necessary for the orderly development of the land
encompassed within the plat.
      Q.   A strip of land shall not be reserved by the subdivider unless the
land is of sufficient size and shape to be of some practical use or service as
determined by the Council.
      R.   The purpose of all areas dedicated to the public must be clearly
indicated on the plat.
      S.   The plat shall contain a statement by a registered land surveyor
that the plat was prepared by the surveyor or under the surveyor’s direct
personal supervision and shall be signed and dated by the surveyor and bear the
surveyor’s State registration number or seal.
      T.   Street names and clear designation of public alleys.
      U.   Block and lot numbers.
      V.   Name and address of owner and subdivider.
      W.   Accurate dimensions for any property to be dedicated or reserved for
public use.
      X.   The plat shall be signed and acknowledged by the subdivision land
owner and their spouse.
      Y.   A sealed certification of the accuracy of the plat by the registered
land surveyor who drew the plat.
   2.   Information to be Provided in Accompanying Material. The following
material shall be submitted with the final plat:
      A.   A correct legal description of the subdivision land;
      B.   A statement by the proprietors and their spouses, if any, that the
plat is prepared with their free consent and in accordance with their desire,
signed and acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the
acknowledgments of deeds. The statement by the proprietors may also include a
dedication to the public of all lands within the plat that are designated for
streets, alleys, parks, open areas, school property, or other public use, if
the dedication is approved by the Council;
      C.   A statement from the mortgage holders or lienholders, if any, that
the plat is prepared with their free consent and in accordance with their
desire, signed and acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the
acknowledgment of deeds. An affidavit and bond as provided for in Section
354.12 of the Code of Iowa may be recorded in lieu of the consent of the
mortgage or lienholder. When a mortgage or lienholder consents to the
subdivision, a release of mortgage or lien shall be recorded for any areas
conveyed to the City or dedicated to the public.
      D.   An opinion by an attorney-at-law who has examined the abstract of
title of the land being platted. The opinion shall state the names of the
proprietors and holders of mortgages, liens, or other encumbrances on the land
being platted and shall note the encumbrances, along with any bonds securing
the encumbrances. Utility easements shall not be construed to be encumbrances
for the purpose of this section.
      E.   A certificate of the County Treasurer that the land is free from
certified taxes and certified special assessments or that the land is free from
certified taxes and that the certified special assessments are secured by bond
in compliance with Section 354.12 of the Code of Iowa.
      F.   A resolution and certificate for approval by the Council and for
signatures of the Mayor and Clerk.
      G.   A certificate by the City Engineer that all required improvements
and installations have been completed according to the construction plans
submitted to the City prior to construction or with the final plat if not
constructed, or that a performance bond guaranteeing completion has been
approved by the City Attorney and filed with the Clerk, or that the Council has
agreed that the City will provide the necessary improvements and installations
and assess the costs against the subdivider or future property owners in the
subdivision.
      H.   The encumbrance bond, if any.
170.20   SUBMISSION OF FINAL PLAT.
The subdivider shall prepare a final plat in accordance with the provisions of
Section 166.19 and shall file with the Clerk an application in triplicate for
the final approval of the plat. The application shall:
   1.   Forms and Fees. Be made on forms available from the Clerk together with
a fee of $10.00 per lot.
   2.   Number of Copies of Plat. Be accompanied by a minimum of 10 copies of
the final plat.
   3.   Offers of Dedication. Be accompanied by all formal irrevocable offers
of dedication to the public of all streets, City uses, utilities and easements,
in a form approved by the City Attorney.
   4.   Time of Submission. Be presented to the Clerk at least four weeks prior
to the regular meeting of the Council.
170.21   REFERRAL OF FINAL PLAT.
The Clerk shall immediately refer two copies of the final plat to the City
Engineer and seven copies to the Planning and Zoning Commission. In the case of
a subdivision outside the corporate limits of the City, the Clerk shall refer
one copy of the final plat to the County Board of Supervisors.
170.22   ACTION BY THE PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
The Planning and Zoning Commission shall, upon receiving the final plat, as
soon as possible, but within 30 days of receiving the final plat, consider the
final plat, and if the same is recommended for approval, shall submit its
recommendation of approval to the Council together with a certified copy of its
resolution showing the action of the Planning and Zoning Commission. If the
Planning and Zoning Commission recommends approval of the final plat, such
approval and the date thereof shall be noted on the plat over the signature of
both the Chairperson and Secretary of the Planning and Zoning Commission, and
the plat and five copies shall be transmitted to the Council, and one copy
shall be returned to the subdivider.
170.23   ACTION BY THE COUNCIL.
Upon receipt of the certification by the Planning and Zoning Commission, the
Council shall, within 60 days, either approve or disapprove the final plat.
   1.   Disapproval of Plat. In the event that said plat is disapproved by the
Council, such disapproval shall be expressed in writing and shall point out
wherein said proposed plat is objectionable.
   2.   Acceptance of Plat. In the event that said plat is found to be
acceptable and in accordance with this chapter, the Council shall accept the
same.
   3.   Final Approval and Recording of Plat. The passage of a resolution by
the Council accepting the plat shall constitute final approval of the platting
of the area shown on the final plat, but the subdivider or owner shall cause
such plat to be recorded in the office of the County Recorder, and shall file
satisfactory evidence of such recording in the office of the Clerk before the
City shall recognize the plat as being in full force and effect.
170.24   RESUBDIVISION OF LAND.
The following requirements shall govern the resubdividing of land.
   1.   Procedure for Resubdividing. For any change in a map of an approved or
recorded subdivision plat, if such change affects any street layout shown on
such map, or area reserved for public use indicated on the map, or any lot
line, or if it affects any map or plan legally established prior to the
adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions, such parcel shall be
approved by the same procedure, rules, and regulations as for a subdivision.
   2.   Acreage Lots. Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided and the
subdivision plat shows one or more lots containing more than one acre of land
and there are indications that such lots will eventually be resubdivided into
smaller building sites, the Planning and Zoning Commission and Council may
require that such parcel of land allow for future opening of streets and the
ultimate extension of adjacent streets. Easements providing for the future
opening and extension of such streets may be made a requirement of the plat.
170.25   COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
Before the final plat is approved by the Council, all applicants shall be
required to complete, in accordance with the Council’s decision and to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer, all the street, sanitary sewer, water, and
other improvements as required in these regulations, specified in the final
plat, and as approved by the Council, and to dedicate the same to the City,
free and clear of all liens and encumbrances on the property and public
improvements thus dedicated.
170.26   PERFORMANCE BOND.
The Council, in its discretion, may waive the requirement that the applicant
complete and dedicate all public improvements prior to approving the final
plat, and that, as an alternative, the applicant post a bond in accordance with
Section 170.17 at the time of application for final plat approval in an amount
estimated by the Council as sufficient to secure to the City the satisfactory
construction, installation, and dedication of the incomplete portion of
required improvements. In addition:
   1.   Approved by City Attorney. Such performance bond shall comply with all
statutory requirements and shall be satisfactory to the City Attorney as to
form, sufficiency, and manner of execution as set forth in these regulations.
   2.   Completion Period. The period within which required improvements must
be completed shall be specified by the Council in the resolution approving the
final plat, shall be incorporated in the bond, and shall not exceed one year
from date of final approval.
   3.   Extension of Completion Period. The performance bond shall be approved
by the Council as to the amount and surety and conditions satisfactory to the
Council. The Planning and Zoning Commission may, upon proof of difficulty,
recommend to the Council an extension of the completion date set forth in such
bond for a maximum period of one additional year. The Council may, at any time
during the period of such bond, accept a substitution of principal or sureties
on the bond.
   4.   Temporary Improvements. The applicant shall build and pay for all costs
of temporary improvements required by the Council and shall maintain same for
the period specified by the Council. Prior to the construction of any temporary
facility or improvement, the developer shall file with the City a separate
suitable bond for temporary facilities, which bond shall insure that the
temporary facilities will be properly constructed, maintained, and removed.
   5.   Failure to Complete Improvement. For subdivisions for which no
performance bond has been posted, if the improvements are not completed within
the period specified by the Council in the resolution approving the plat, the
approval shall be deemed to have expired. In those cases where a performance
bond has been posted and required improvements have not been installed within
the terms of such performance bond, the City may declare the bond to be in
default and require that all the improvements be installed regardless of the
extent of the building development at the time the bond is declared to be in
default.
170.27   INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
The Council shall provide for inspection of required improvements during
construction and ensure their satisfactory completion. The applicant shall pay
to the City an inspection fee equal to the actual cost of inspection. These
fees shall be due and payable upon demand of the City and no building permits
or Certificates of Occupancy shall be issued until all fees are paid. The
subdivider shall furnish the Council with a construction schedule prior to the
commencement of any and all construction, and notify the City not less than 24
hours in advance of readiness for required inspections.
170.28   RELEASE OR REDUCTION OF PERFORMANCE BOND.
The performance bond may not be released or reduced except as follows:
   1.   Certificate of Satisfactory Completion. The Council will not accept
dedication of required improvements, nor release or reduce a performance bond,
until the City Engineer has submitted a certificate stating that all required
improvements have been satisfactorily completed and until the applicant’s
engineer has certified to the City through submission of detailed “as built”
plans of the subdivision indicating location, dimensions, materials, and other
information required by the City, that all public improvements are in
accordance with construction plans for the subdivision.
   2.   Reduction of Performance Bond. A performance bond may be reduced upon
actual dedication of public improvements and then only to the ratio that the
public improvement dedicated bears to the total public improvements for the
plat.
170.29   MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
Improvements shall be maintained and a maintenance bond provided as follows:
   1.   Maintenance of Improvements Before Acceptance. The applicant shall be
required to maintain all improvements on the individual subdivided lots and
provide for snow removal on streets and sidewalks, if required, until
acceptance of said improvements by the Council. If there are any Certificates
of Occupancy on a street not dedicated to the City, the City may, on 12 hours’
notice, plow the street, or effect emergency repairs and charge same to
applicant.
   2.   Maintenance Bond. The applicant shall be required to file a maintenance
bond with the Council, prior to dedication, in an amount considered adequate by
the Council and in a form satisfactory to the City Attorney, in order to assure
the satisfactory condition of the required improvements for a period of two
years after the date of their acceptance by the Council and dedication of same
to the Council.
170.30   DEFERRAL OR WAIVER OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
Required improvements may be deferred or waived as follows:
   1.   Waiver of Required Improvements. The Council may defer or waive at the
time of final approval, subject to appropriate conditions, the provision of any
or all such improvements as in its judgment are not requisite in the interests
of the public health, safety, and general welfare, or which are inappropriate
because of inadequacy or lack of connecting facilities.
   2.   Deferral of Required Improvements. Whenever it is deemed necessary by
the Council to defer the construction of any improvement required herein
because of incompatible grades, future planning, inadequate or lack of
connecting facilities, or for other reasons, the applicant shall pay their
share of the costs of the future improvements to the City prior to the approval
of the final plat, or the applicant may post a bond insuring completion of said
improvements upon demand of the City.
170.31   ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
No Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued until the extent of street
improvement is adequate for vehicular access by the prospective occupant and by
police and fire equipment.
170.32   IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
The subdivider shall install and construct all improvements required by these
regulations in accordance with the specifications and under the supervision of
the Council and to its satisfaction.
170.33   DESIGN STANDARDS ARE MINIMUM.
The standards and details of design herein contained are intended only as
minimum requirements so that the general arrangement and layout of a
subdivision may be adjusted to a wide variety of circumstances. However, in the
design and development of the subdivision, the subdivider shall use standards
consistent with the site conditions so as to assure an economical, pleasant,
and durable neighborhood.
170.34   CONFORMANCE TO APPLICABLE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
In addition to the requirements established herein, all subdividers shall
comply with the following laws, rules, and regulations.
   1.   State Statutes. All applicable statutes of the State.
   2.   City Plans. Any comprehensive plan, public utilities plan, and capital
improvements program of the City.
   3.   State Agency Rules. The requirements and rules of State agencies such
as the State Department of Natural Resources, State Department of Health, and
the State Department of Transportation, where applicable.
   4.   County Standards and Regulations. The standards and regulations of the
County Board of Supervisors and County commissions, boards, and agencies, where
applicable.
   5.   City Standards and Regulations. The standards and regulations adopted
by the Council, boards, commissions, and agencies of the City.
   6.   Plat Approval and Conformity. Plat approval may be withheld if a
subdivision is not in conformance with the above guides or policy and purposes
of these regulations.
170.35   SUBDIVISION NAME.
The proposed name of the subdivision shall not duplicate, or too closely
approximate phonetically, the name of any other subdivision in the area covered
by these regulations. The Council, after consultation with the Planning and
Zoning Commission, shall have the final authority to designate the name of the
subdivision which shall be determined at preliminary plat approval.
170.36   MONUMENTATION.
Monuments shall be in conformance with the following requirements:
   1.   Establishment of Permanent Control Monuments. Prior to the offering of
the plat of any subdivision for record, the surveyor shall confirm the prior
establishment of permanent control monuments at each controlling corner on the
boundaries of the parcel or tract of land being subdivided. If no permanent
control monuments exist, the surveyor shall establish at least two permanent
control monuments for each block created, or if the area subdivided into lots
is less than a block in size, at least two permanent control monuments shall be
established for the subdivision. Permanent control monuments shall be
constructed of reasonably permanent material solidly embedded in the ground and
capable of being detected by commonly used magnetic or electronic equipment.
The surveyor shall affix a cap of reasonably inert material bearing an embossed
or stencil cut marking of the State registration number of the surveyor to the
top of the monument.
   2.   Other Monuments of Record. Other monuments established prior to the
recording of the plat of the subdivision and described on the plat shall be
considered monuments of record and shall be given the same weight as original
permanent control monuments if the monuments remain undisturbed in their
original positions. The additional monuments shall be constructed and embedded
according to the provisions for permanent control monuments according to the
provisions for permanent control monuments prescribed in Subsection 1.
   3.   Establishment and Recording of Other Monuments. Monuments other than
the permanent control monuments required in Subsection 1 shall not be required
to be established before the recording of the plat or the conveyancing of lands
by reference to the plat if the registered land surveyor includes in the
surveyor’s statement on the plat that the additional monuments required by
these regulations shall be established before a specified future date.
   4.   Additional Monuments Required. Additional monuments shall be
constructed and embedded according to the provisions for permanent control
monuments prescribed in Subsection 1, and shall be set in all of the following
locations whether set prior to the recording of the plat, or subsequent to such
recording:
      A.   At every corner and angle point of every lot, block, or parcel of
land created.
      B.   At every point of intersection of the outer boundary of the
subdivision with an existing or created right-of-way line of any street,
railroad, or other way.
      C.   At every point of curve, tangency, reversed curve, or compounded
curve on every right-of-way line established.
   5.   Placement of Monument. When the placement of a monument required by
this chapter at the prescribed location is impractical, it is permissible to
establish a reference monument in close proximity to the prescribed location.
If the reference monument is established prior to the recording of the plat and
its location properly shown on the plat, the reference monument shall have the
same status as other monuments of record. Where any point requiring
monumentation has been previously monumented, the existence of the monument
shall be confirmed by the surveyor. The existing monument shall be considered a
monument of record when properly shown and described on the recorded plat.
170.37   CHARACTER OF THE LAND.
Land which the City finds to be unsuitable for subdivision or development due
to flooding, improper drainage, steep slopes, rock formations, adverse earth
formations or topography, utility easements, or other features which will
reasonably be harmful to the safety, health, and general welfare of the present
or future inhabitants of the subdivision or its surrounding areas or both,
shall not be subdivided or developed unless adequate methods are formulated by
the subdivider and approved by the Council, upon recommendation of the Planning
and Zoning Commission, to solve the problems created by the unsuitable land
conditions. Such land shall be set aside for uses as shall not involve such a
danger.
170.38   LOTS.
The lot size, width, depth, shape, and orientation shall be appropriate for the
location of the subdivision and for the type of development and use
contemplated.
   1.   Lot Size. Minimum lot dimensions and sizes shall conform to the
requirements of the zoning regulations where applicable, but in no case shall a
lot contain less than 5,000 square feet of area or be less than 50 feet wide
measured at the building line.
      A.   Residential lots, where not served by public sewer, shall be of
sufficient size, as determined by the City and subject to any applicable State
or County rules or regulations, to accommodate the type of private sewage
disposal system proposed by the developer.
      B.   Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for commercial
and industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off-street service
and parking facilities required by the type of use and development
contemplated.
      C.   Corner lots for residential use shall have an extra 20 feet of width
to permit appropriate building setback from and orientation to both streets.
   2.   Street Access. Each lot shall be provided with satisfactory access to a
public street.
   3.   Double Frontage and Reverse Frontage Lots. Double frontage and reverse
frontage lots shall be avoided except where essential to provide separation of
residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific
disadvantages of topography and orientation. A planting screen easement of at
least 10 feet, and across which there shall be no right of access, shall be
provided along the line of lots abutting such a traffic artery or other
disadvantageous use.
   4.   Side Lot Lines. Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles
to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   5.   Lot Drainage. Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage
away from all buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with
the general storm drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so
as to avoid concentration of storm drainage water from each lot to adjacent
lots.
   6.   Building Lines. Building lines conforming with zoning standards shall
be shown on all lots within the platted area. Where the subdivided area is not
under zoning control, the Council may require building lines in accordance with
the needs of each subdivision.
170.39   BLOCKS.
Blocks shall conform to the following requirements:
   1.   Provision for Lots. Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for
two tiers of lots of appropriate depths. Exceptions shall be permitted in
blocks adjacent to arterial streets, railroads, or waterways.
   2.   Design Considerations. The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall
be determined with due regard to:
      A.   Provision for adequate building sites.
      B.   Zoning requirements, where applicable.
      C.   Topography.
      D.   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control, and safety of
street traffic.
   3.   Block Lengths. The lengths of blocks shall be appropriate to the type
of development contemplated, but block lengths in residential developments
shall not exceed 2,000 feet, or be less than 500 feet. Wherever practicable,
blocks along arterials and collector streets shall not be less than 1,000 feet
in length.
   4.   Easement Reservation. In blocks over 800 feet in length, the Council
may require the reservation of an easement to accommodate utilities, drainage
facilities, or pedestrian traffic.
   5.   Pedestrian Crosswalks. Pedestrian crosswalks, not less than 10 feet
wide, may be required by the Council through the center of blocks more than 800
feet in length. Pedestrian crosswalks shall not exceed 12 percent in grade
unless steps of an approved design are to be constructed.
170.40   STREETS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
Streets shall conform with the following general requirements:
   1.   Frontage on Improved Roads. No subdivision shall be approved unless the
area to be subdivided shall have frontage on and access from an existing
street.
   2.   Grading and Improvement Plan. Streets shall be graded and improved and
conform to the City construction standards and specifications and shall be
approved as to design and specifications by the City Engineer, in accordance
with the construction plans required to be submitted.
   3.   Topography and Arrangement. Streets shall be conformance with the
following requirements related to topography and arrangement:
      A.   Streets shall be related appropriately to be topography. All streets
shall be arranged so as to obtain as many as possible of the building sites at
or above the grades of the streets. Grades of streets shall conform as closely
as possible to the original topography. A combination of steep grades and
curves shall be avoided. Specific standards are contained in the design
standards of these regulations.
      B.   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and
proposed system of streets and dedicated right-of-way.
      C.   All arterials shall be properly related to special traffic
generators such as industries, business districts, schools, churches, and
shopping centers; to population densities; and to the pattern of existing and
proposed land uses.
      D.   Municipal service streets shall be laid out to conform as much as
possible to the topography to discourage use by through traffic, to permit
efficient drainage and utility systems, and to require the minimum number of
streets necessary to provide convenient and safe access to property.
      E.   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the
tract to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical
conditions, or unless, in the opinion of the Council, such extension is not
necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of the subdivision
with the existing layout or the most advantageous future development of
adjacent tracts.
      F.   In business and industrial developments, the streets, and other
accessways shall be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings,
location of rail facilities, and the provision of alleys, truck loading and
maneuvering areas, and walks and parking areas so as to minimize conflict of
movement between the various types of traffic, including pedestrian.
   4.   Access to State or County Jurisdictional Roads. Whenever any part of a
subdivision is designed with access to a road under State or County
jurisdiction, permission for access to such roads shall be obtained from the
appropriate jurisdiction and such access shall be designed according to the
standards of the appropriate jurisdiction.
   5.   Access to Arterial Streets. Where a subdivision borders on or contains
an existing or proposed arterial street, the Council may require that lot
access to such streets be limited by one of the following means:
      A.   Lots shall be designed so as to back onto the primary arterial and
front onto a parallel municipal service street; no access shall be provided
from the arterial street, and screening shall be provided in a strip of land
along the rear property line of such lots.
      B.   A series of cul-de-sacs entered from and designed generally at right
angles to such a parallel street, with the rear lines of their terminal lots
backing onto the arterial street.
      C.   A frontage or service road, separated from the primary arterial by a
planting or grass strip and having access thereto at suitable points.
   6.   Street Names. Streets that are in alignment with others already
existing shall bear the name of the existing streets. The proposed names of new
streets shall not duplicate or sound similar to existing street names. Street
names shall be subject to the approval of the Council and Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   7.   Street Name Signs. Street name signs are to be placed at all
intersections within or abutting the subdivision, the type and location of
which to be approved by the Council. The City shall install all street name
signs. The applicant shall deposit with the City, at the time of final
subdivision approval, the estimated cost of installation of each street sign
required by the Council.
   8.   Streetlights. Installation of streetlights shall be required in
accordance with design and specification standards approved by the Council.
   9.   Construction of Streets and Dead-End Streets. Streets and dead-end
streets shall be in conformance with the following requirements:
      A.   Construction of Streets. The arrangement of streets shall provide
for the continuation of principal streets between adjacent properties when such
continuation is necessary for convenient movement of traffic, effective fire
protection, and for efficient provision of utilities. If the adjacent property
is undeveloped and the street must be a dead-end street temporarily, the right-
of-way shall be extended to the property line. A temporary T- or L- shaped
turnabout shall be provided on all temporary dead-end streets, with the
notation on the subdivision plat that land outside the normal street right-of-
way shall revert to abutters whenever the street is continued. The Council may
limit the length of temporary dead-end streets in accordance with the design
standards of these regulations.
      B.   Permanent Dead-end Streets. Where a road does not extend to the
boundary of the subdivision and its continuation is not required by the Council
for access to adjoining property, its terminus shall normally not be nearer to
such boundary than 150 feet. However, the Council may require the reservation
of an appropriate easement to accommodate drainage facilities, pedestrian
traffic, or utilities. A cul-de-sac turnaround shall be provided at the end of
a permanent dead-end street in accordance with City construction standards and
specifications. For greater convenience to traffic and more effective police
and fire protection, permanent dead-end streets shall, in general, be limited
in length in accordance with the design standards of these regulations.
170.41   STREETS - DESIGN STANDARDS.
The following design standards shall apply to the design of streets:
   1.   General. In order to provide for streets of suitable location, width,
and improvement to accommodate prospective traffic and afford satisfactory
access to police, firefighting, snow removal, sanitation, and street
maintenance equipment, and to coordinate streets so as to compose a convenient
system and avoid undue hardships to adjoining properties, the following design
standards for streets are hereby required:
      A.   A tangent of at least 100 feet long shall be introduced between
reverse curves on municipal arterial and municipal collector streets, and 75
feet on municipal service streets.
      B.   When connecting street lines deflect from each other at any one
point by more than 10 degrees, they shall be connected by a curve with a radius
adequate to insure a sight distance of not less than 100 feet for municipal
service and municipal collector streets, and of such greater radii as the
Council shall determine for special cases.
      C.   Minimum Roadway and Right-of-Way Standards:
         (1)   Municipal arterial streets shall have a right-of-way width of
not less than 80 feet and a roadway width of not less than 44 feet.
         (2)   Municipal collector streets shall have a right-of-way width of
not less than 60 feet and a roadway width of not less than 36 feet.
         (3)    Municipal service streets shall have a right-of-way width of
not less than 50 feet and a roadway width of not less than 26 feet.
         (4)   Frontage streets shall have a right-of-way width of not less
than 40 feet and a roadway width of not less than 26 feet.
         (5)   Cul-de-sacs shall meet all the requirements for a municipal
service street and, in addition, shall provide a turnaround with a right-of-way
radius of 50 feet and a roadway radius of 40 feet. No cul-de-sac shall exceed
500 feet in length.
      D.   Street grades, wherever feasible, shall not exceed the following:
         (1)   Municipal arterial streets - six percent;
         (2)   Municipal collector streets - eight percent;
         (3)   Municipal service streets - 10 percent;
         (4)   Frontage streets - six percent.
      E.   All changes in street grade shall be connected by vertical curves of
minimum length in feet equal to 20 times the algebraic difference in percents
of grade.
      F.   No street grade shall be less than one-half of one percent.
   2.   Street Surfacing and Improvements. After sewer, water, and other
utilities to be located underground within the right-of-way have been installed
by the applicant, the applicant shall construct curbs and gutters and shall
surface, or cause to be surfaced, roadways to the widths prescribed in these
regulations. Said surfacing shall be of Portland concrete cement. Adequate
provisions shall be made for culverts, drains, and bridges. All road pavement,
shoulders, drainage improvements and structure, curbs, turnarounds, and
sidewalks shall conform to all construction standards and specifications
adopted by the City, and shall be incorporated into the construction plans
required to be submitted by the developer for plat approval.
   3.   Excess Right-of-way. Right-of-way widths in excess of the standards
designated in these regulations shall be required whenever, due to topography,
additional width is necessary to provide adequate earth slopes. Such slopes
shall not be in excess of three to one.
   4.   Railroads and Limited Access Highways. Railroad rights-of-way and
limited access highways were so located as to affect the subdivision of
adjoining lands shall be treated as follows:
      A.   In residential districts, a buffer strip at least 25 feet in depth,
in addition to the normal depth of the lot required in the district, shall be
provided adjacent to the railroad right-of-way or limited access highway. This
strip shall be part of the platted lots and shall be designated on the plat:
“This strip is reserved for screening. The placement of structures hereon is
prohibited.”
      B.   In districts zoned for business, commercial, or industrial uses, the
nearest street extending parallel or approximately parallel to the railroad
shall, wherever practicable, be at a sufficient distance therefrom to ensure
suitable depth for commercial or industrial sites.
      C.   Streets parallel to the railroad when intersecting a street which
crosses the railroad at grade shall, to the extent practicable, be at a
distance of at least 150 feet from the railroad right-of-way. Such distance
shall be determined with due consideration of the minimum distance required for
future separation of grades by means of appropriate approach gradients.
   5.   Intersections. The following standards shall apply to the design of
intersections:
      A.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles. A proposed intersection of two new streets at an angle of less
than 75 degrees shall not be acceptable. An oblique street should be curved
approaching an intersection and should be approximately at right angles for at
least 100 feet therefrom. No more than two streets shall intersect at any one
point unless specifically approved by the Council.
      B.   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street
shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any existing intersections on the
opposite side of such street. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than
150 feet shall not be permitted, except where the intersected street has
separated dual drives without median breaks at either intersection. Where
streets intersect major streets, their alignment shall be continuous.
Intersection of major streets shall be at least 800 feet apart.
      C.   Minimum curb radius at the intersection of two municipal service
streets shall be at least 20 feet; and minimum curb radius at an intersection
involving a municipal collector street shall be at least 25 feet. Abrupt
changes in alignment within a block shall have the corners cut off in
accordance with standard engineering practice to permit safe vehicular
movement.
      D.   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical. In hilly or rolling areas, at the approach to an intersection, a
leveling area shall be provided having not greater than a two percent rate at a
distance of 60 feet, measured from the nearest right-of-way line of the
intersecting street.
      E.   Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or existing
vegetation inside any lot corner that would create a traffic hazard by limiting
visibility, the developer shall cut such ground or vegetation, including trees,
in connection with the grading of the public right-of-way to the extent deemed
necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
      F.   The cross-slopes on all streets, including intersections, shall be
three percent or less.
   6.   Bridges. Bridges of primary benefit to the applicant, as determined by
the Council, shall be constructed at the full expense of the applicant without
reimbursement from the City. The sharing expense for the construction of
bridges not of primary benefit to the applicant as determined by the Council,
will be fixed by special agreement between the Council and the applicant. Said
cost shall be charged to the applicant pro rata as the percentage of their land
developed and so served.
   7.   Alleys. The following design standards for alleys shall be required of
all subdividers:
      A.   Alleys shall be prohibited in residential districts.
      B.   Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts,
except that the Council may waive this requirement where other definite and
assured provision is made for service access, such as off-street loading,
unloading, and parking consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed.
      C.   Alleys shall have a right-of-way of not less than 30 feet and a
roadway width of not less than 20 feet.
      D.   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided,
but where necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit safe
vehicular movement.
      E.   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if unavoidable,
shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead-end, as
determined by the Council.
   8.   Street Dedications and Reservations. The following provisions shall
apply to street dedications and reservations:
      A.   Street systems in new subdivisions shall be laid out so as to
eliminate or avoid new perimeter half streets. Where an existing half street is
adjacent to a new subdivision, the other half of the street shall be improved
and dedicated by the subdivider. The Council may authorize a new perimeter
street where the subdivider improves and dedicates the entire required street
right-of-way width within their own subdivision boundaries.
      B.   Where a subdivision borders an existing narrow street or when City
plans or zoning setback regulations indicate plans for realignment or widening
a road that would require use of some of the land in the subdivision, the
applicant shall be required to improve and dedicate, at their expense, such
areas for widening or realignment of such roads. Such frontage roads and
streets shall be improved and dedicated by the applicant, at their own expense,
to the full width as required by these subdivision regulations. Land reserved
for any street purposes may not be counted in satisfying yard or area
requirements of the zoning regulations whether the land is to be dedicated to
the City in fee simple or an easement is granted to the City.
170.42   STORM SEWERS AND DRAINAGE.
The following requirements shall apply to the provision of storm sewers and
drainage:
   1.   General Requirements. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall not
recommend for approval any plat of a subdivision which does not make adequate
provision for storm or flood water run-off channels or basins. The stormwater
drainage system shall be separate and independent of any sanitary sewer system.
Storm sewers, where required, shall be designed by methods as approved by the
Council, and a copy of design computations shall be submitted along with plans.
Inlets shall be provided so that surface water is not carried across or around
any intersection, or for a distance of more than 600 feet in the gutter. When
calculations indicate that curb capacities are exceeded at a point, no further
allowance shall be made for flow beyond that point, and basins shall be used to
intercept flow at that point. Surface water drainage patterns shall be shown
for each and every lot and block.
   2.   Nature of Stormwater Facilities. The applicant may be required by the
Council to carry away, by pipe or open ditch, any spring or surface water that
may exist either previously to or as a result of the subdivision. Such drainage
facilities shall be located in the road right-of-way where feasible, or in
perpetual unobstructed easements of appropriate width, and shall be constructed
in accordance with the construction standards and specifications.
      A.   Where a public storm sewer is accessible, the applicant shall
install storm sewer facilities, or if no outlets are within a reasonable
distance, adequate provision shall be made for the disposal of stormwaters,
subject to the specifications of the Council. However, in subdivisions
containing lots less than 15,000 square feet in area, and in business and
industrial districts, underground storm sewer systems shall be constructed
throughout the subdivisions and be conducted to an approved outfall.
      B.   If a connection to a public storm sewer will be provided eventually,
as determined by the Council, the subdivider shall make arrangement for future
stormwater disposal by a public storm sewer system at the time the plat
receives final approval. Provision for such connection shall be incorporated by
inclusion in the performance bond required for the subdivision plat.
      C.   A culvert or other drainage facility shall in each case be large
enough to accommodate potential runoff from its entire upstream drainage area,
whether inside or outside the subdivision. The Council shall determine the
necessary size of the facility, based on the provisions of the construction
standards and specifications assuming conditions of maximum potential watershed
development permitted by applicable zoning regulations.
      D.   The Council shall also study the effect of each subdivision on
existing downstream drainage facilities outside the area of the subdivision.
City drainage studies, together with such other studies as shall be
appropriate, shall serve as a guide to needed improvements. Where it is
anticipated that the additional runoff incident to the development of the
subdivision will overload an existing downstream drainage facility, the Council
may withhold approval of the subdivision until provision has been made for the
recovery of the cost for the improvement of said potential condition in such
sum as the Council shall determine. No subdivision shall be approved unless
adequate drainage will be provided to an adequate drainage watercourse or
facility.
      E.   The Council may, when it deems it necessary for the health, safety,
or welfare of the present and future population of the area and necessary to
the conservation of water, drainage and sanitary facilities, prohibit the
subdivision of any portion of the property which lies within the floodplain of
any stream or drainage course.
   3.   Dedication of Drainage Easements. The following shall apply to the
dedication of drainage easements.
      A.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channe,l or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially to the lines of such watercourse, and of
such width and construction, or both, as will be adequate for the purpose.
Wherever possible, it is desirable that the drainage be maintained by an open
channel with landscaped banks and adequate width for maximum potential volume
of flow.
      B.   Drainage easements:
         (1)   Where topography or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of drainage facilities within street rights-of-way,
perpetual unobstructed easements at least 15 feet in width for such drainage
facilities shall be provided across property outside the street lines and with
satisfactory access to the road. Easements shall be indicated on the plat.
Drainage easements shall be carried from the street to a natural watercourse or
to other drainage facilities.
         (2)   When a proposed drainage system will carry water across private
land outside the subdivision, appropriate drainage rights must be secured and
indicated on the plat.
         (3)   The applicant shall dedicate, either in fee, or by drainage, or
conservation easement of land on both sides of existing watercourses, to a
distance to be determined by the Council.
         (4)   Low-lying lands along watercourses subject to flooding or
overflowing during storm periods, whether or not included in areas for
dedication, shall be preserved and retained in their natural state as
drainageways. Such land or lands subject to periodic flooding shall not be
computed in determining the area requirement of any lot.
170.43   WATER FACILITIES.
Water facilities shall be provided as follows:
   1.   General Requirements. The following general requirements shall apply to
the provision of water facilities:
      A.   Where a public water main is accessible, the subdivider shall
install adequate water facilities, including fire hydrants, subject to City
specifications. All water mains shall be at least six inches in diameter.
      B.   Water main extensions shall be approved by the City.
      C.   To facilitate the above, the location of all fire hydrants and all
water supply improvements shall be shown on the preliminary plat and final
plat.
   2.   Individual Wells and Central Water Systems. The following requirements
shall apply to the provision of individual wells and central water systems:
      A.   In the discretion of the Council, if a public water system is not
available, individual wells may be used or a central water system provided in
such a manner that an adequate supply of potable water will be available to
every lot in the subdivision. Water samples shall be submitted to the
appropriate County or State agency for testing, and individual wells and
central water systems shall be approved by the appropriate County or State
health authorities. Orders of approval shall be submitted to the Council.
      B.   If the Council requires that a connection to a public water main be
eventually provided as a condition to approval of an individual well or central
water system, the applicant shall make arrangements for future water service at
the time the plat receives final approval. Performance or cash bonds may be
required to ensure compliance.
   3.   Fire Hydrants. Fire hydrants shall be required for all subdivisions
except those coming under Subsection 2. Fire hydrants shall be located no more
than 1,000 feet apart and within 500 feet of any structures and shall be
approved by the City.
170.44   SEWAGE FACILITIES.
Sewage facilities shall be provided as follows:
   1.   General Requirements. The applicant shall install sanitary sewer
facilities in a manner prescribed by the City construction standards and
specifications. All plans shall be designed in accordance with the rules,
regulations, and standards of the City and the State Department of Natural
Resources or State Department of Health. Plans shall be approved by the above
agencies.
   2.   Construction of Sanitary Sewage Systems. Sanitary sewage systems shall
be constructed as follows:
      A.   Where a public sanitary sewage system is reasonably accessible, the
applicant shall connect with the same and provide sewers accessible to each lot
in the subdivision.
      B.   Where public sanitary sewer systems are not reasonably accessible
but will become available within a reasonable time, not to exceed 15 years, the
applicant may choose one of the following alternatives:
         (1)   Install a central sewage system, operated and maintained by the
benefited property owners. Where plans for future public sanitary sewage
systems exist, the applicant shall install the sewer lines, laterals, and mains
to be in permanent conformance with such plans and ready for connection to such
public sewer mains.
         (2)   Individual disposal systems, provided the applicant shall
install sanitary sewer lines, laterals, and mains from the street curb to a
point in the subdivision boundary where a future connection with the public
sewer main shall be made. Sewer lines shall be laid from the house to the
street line and a connection shall be available in the home to connect from the
individual disposal system to the sewer system when the public sewers become
available. Such sewer systems shall be capped until ready for use and shall
conform to all plans for installation of the public sewer system, where such
exist, and shall be ready for connection to such public sewer main.
      C.   Where sanitary sewer systems are not reasonably accessible and will
not become available for a period in excess of 15 years, the applicant shall
install individual disposal systems or central sewage systems.
   3.   Individual Disposal System Requirements. If public sewer facilities are
not available and individual disposal systems are proposed, minimum lot areas
shall conform to the requirements of applicable zoning regulations and these
regulations. Percolation tests and test holes shall be made as directed by the
City and the results submitted to the local board of health.
   4.   Water Supply Interconnections. There shall be no physical connection
between a public or private potable water supply system and a sewer which will
permit the passage of any sewage or polluted water into the potable supply.
Sewers shall be kept removed from water supply wells or other water supply
sources and structures.
170.45   SIDEWALKS.
The following requirements shall apply to the provision of sidewalks:
   1.   Location. Sidewalks shall be included within the dedicated non-pavement
right-of-way of all streets.
   2.   Construction. Sidewalks shall be improved as required in Section
170.41(2) of these regulations.
170.46   UTILITIES.
The following shall apply to the provision of utilities:
   1.   Location. The Council may require that all utility facilities,
including, but not limited to, gas, electric power, telephone, and CATV cables,
be located underground throughout the subdivision. All utility facilities
existing and proposed throughout the subdivision shall be shown on the
preliminary plat. Underground service connections to the street property line
of each platted lot, including stub-ins, shall be installed at the subdivider’s
expense. At the discretion of the Council, the requirement for service
connections to each lot may be waived in the case of adjoining lots to be
retained in single ownership and intended to be developed for the same primary
use.
   2.   Easements. Easements shall be provided as follows:
      A.   Easements centered on rear lot lines shall be provided for
utilities. Such easements shall be at least 10 feet wide. Proper coordination
shall be established between the subdivider and the applicable utility
companies for the establishment of utility easements established in adjoining
properties.
      B.   Where topographical or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of utilities within the rear lot lines, perpetual
unobstructed easements at least 10 feet in width shall be provided alongside
lot lines with satisfactory access to the street or rear lot lines. Easements
shall be indicated on the plat.
170.47   PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES AND AMENITIES.
Existing features which would add value to residential development or to the
City as a whole, such as trees, watercourses and falls, beaches, historic
spots, and similar irreplaceable assets, shall be preserved in the design of
the subdivision. No trees shall be removed from any subdivision nor any change
of grade of the land effected until approval of the preliminary plat has been
granted. All trees on the plat required to be retained shall be preserved, and
all trees where required shall be protected against change of grade.
170.48   NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
The following provisions shall apply to nonresidential subdivisions:
   1.   General. If a proposed subdivision includes land that is used for
commercial or industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision with respect
to such land shall make such provision as the Council may require. A
nonresidential subdivision shall be subject to all the requirements of these
regulations, as well as such additional standards required by the Council, and
shall conform to the proposed land use and standards established in City plans
and regulations.
   2.   Standards. In addition to the principles and standards in these
regulations, which are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the
applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City that the street,
parcel, and block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the uses
anticipated and takes into account other uses in the vicinity. The following
principles and standards shall be observed:
      A.   Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and dimensions
to the types of industrial development anticipated.
      B.   Streets rights-of-way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate
the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated thereupon.
      C.   Special requirements may be imposed by the City with respect to
street, curb, gutter, and sidewalk design and construction.
      D.   Special requirements may be imposed by the City with respect to the
installation of public utilities, including water, sewer, and stormwater
drainage.
      E.   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas
from potential nuisance from a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision,
including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing up on existing or
potential residential development and provisions for a permanently landscaped
buffer strip when necessary.
      F.   Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck traffic,
shall not normally be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or
potential residential areas.
170.49   SCHOOL AND PARK RESERVATIONS.
If land to be subdivided contains sites that are designated in City plans or
plans of other public bodies to be used for schools or parks, the developer
shall reserve such site for such use. If sites which have been reserved are not
acquired by the City or other public body within two years of the date of the
preliminary plat approval, then such sites may be subdivided by the developer.
The appropriate public body may release the reserved site sooner by certifying
to the Council that it does not intend to acquire such site within the two-year
period.
170.50   IMPROVEMENTS WITHIN UNINCORPORATED JURISDICTION.
Improvements in the two-mile unincorporated area under the jurisdiction of
these regulations shall be the same as required herein, provided they are not
less than that required by the applicable County subdivision regulations, and
provided further that all construction plans shall be approved by the County,
and completed public roads shall be accepted by the Board of Supervisors for
public maintenance.
170.51   VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
The following shall apply to the granting of variations and exceptions:
   1.   Hardships. Where the Council finds that extraordinary hardships or
particular difficulties regarding the physical development of land may result
from strict compliance with these regulations, it may make variations or
exceptions to the regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the
public interest secured, provided that such variation or exception shall not
have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of these regulations; and
further provided, the Council shall not grant variations or exceptions to these
regulations unless it shall make findings based upon the evidence presented to
it in each specific case that:
      A.   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in
the neighborhood in which the property is located.
      B.   The conditions upon which the request for a variation is based are
unique to the property for which the variation is sought, and are not
applicable, generally, to other property.
      C.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape, or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of the regulations were carried out.
      D.   The purpose of the variation is not based exclusively upon a desire
to make more money out of the property.
   2.   Conditions. In granting variations and exceptions, the Council may
require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the
objectives of the standards or requirements of these regulations.
   3.   Procedure for a Variance. A petition for any such variance shall be
submitted in writing by the developer at the time when the preliminary plat is
filed. The petition shall state fully the grounds for the application and all
of the facts relied upon by the petitioner.
170.52   CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
Any provisions of these regulations may be changed and amended, from time to
time, by the Council; provided, however, that such changes or amendments shall
not become effective until after a public hearing has been held, public notice
of which shall have been given as required by law. Such proposed amendments
shall first be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission for study and
recommendation before the hearing is held. The Planning and Zoning Commission
shall forward its recommendations to the Council within 30 days, after which
the Council shall give notice of and hold a public hearing on the proposed
amendment.
170.53   ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS, AND PENALTIES.
No plat or subdivision within the City or within two miles thereof shall be
filed or recorded with the County, nor shall any plat or subdivision have any
validity until it complies with the provision of these regulations, has been
approved by the Council as herein set forth, and further:
   1.   Issuance of Building Permits. No more than two building permits for
each separate tract existing at the time of the effective date of these
regulations shall be issued unless the tract has been platted in accordance
with these regulations; except that this provision shall not limit the number
of building permits that may be issued for accessory buildings as defined by
applicable land use regulations such as zoning and restricted residence
regulations, or additions or improvements to a main or accessory building
already legally located upon said tract.
   2.   Sale or Lease Without Plat. Any person who shall dispose of or offer
for sale or lease any lots in the City or addition to the City, until the plat
thereof has been acknowledged and recorded as provided in these regulations,
shall forfeit, and pay $50.00 for each lot and part of lot sold or disposed of,
leased, or offered for sale.
 
