CITY CODE
of
STEAMBOAT ROCK, IOWA
2004
Code current through:
Ord. 22-02, passed March 14, 2022
 
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Steamboat Rock, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 22-02, passed March 14, 2022.
Ordinances of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision
of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
STEAMBOAT ROCK CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Incorporation By Reference
1-1-5: Interpretations
1-1-6: Code Alteration
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of the city of Steamboat Rock 1 .
This city code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the STEAMBOAT ROCK
CITY CODE and it is hereby published by authority of the city council and shall
be kept up to date as provided in section 1-1-3 of this chapter under the
direction of the city attorney, acting for said city council. Any reference to
the number of any section contained herein shall be understood to refer to the
position of the same number, its appropriate chapter and title heading, and to
the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well as to the section itself,
when reference is made to this code by title in any legal documents. (1975
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 380.8.
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (1975 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute a
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code
within thirty (30) days from the date of its final passage. However any failure
to insert such amendments or revisions in each copy of this code shall not
affect the validity of such ordinance. (1975 Code)
1-1-4: INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE:
Wherever in this code a uniform code or similar document is adopted and
incorporated herein by reference, the code or document adopted is the latest
edition thereof, as amended, at the time of the adoption of this code, unless
otherwise stated. Any ordinance in the future readopting said uniform code or
other document, or any readoption of this code shall automatically be an
adoption of the latest edition of said code or other document, as amended, in
existence at that time, unless otherwise stated. (1975 Code)
1-1-5: INTERPRETATIONS:
In the determination of the provisions of each section of this code, the
following rules shall be observed:
   A.   Intent To Defraud: Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order
to constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if an intent appears to
defraud any person.
   B.   Liability Of Employers And Agents 1 : When the provisions of any
section of this code prohibits the commission of an act, not only the person
actually doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the
employer and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said
person shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set
forth. (1975 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 703.2.
1-1-6: CODE ALTERATION:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the city clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of this code shall make every
effort to maintain said code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the city clerk.
Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to
the office of the city clerk when directed so to do by order of the city
council. (1975 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being still in
force or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following section), from which are excluded
the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (1975 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue
of the preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1975 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city herein repealed
and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this code shall be
deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (1975 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used.
When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this code by words
importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several matters,
parties or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be
deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be
applied to any section of this code which contains any express provision
excluding such construction or where the subject matter or context may be
repugnant thereto. (1975 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code they shall have the
meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
CITY: The city of Steamboat Rock, county of Hardin, state of Iowa.
CODE: Unless otherwise specifically stated shall mean this code.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Steamboat Rock".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
KNOWINGLY: Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which brings the act
or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this code
which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by state law 1 .
NEGLIGENT, NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE AND NEGLIGENTLY: Imports a want of such
attention to the nature of probable consequences of the act or omission as a
prudent man ordinarily bestows in acting in his own concern.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
OCCUPANT: Applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Steamboat Rock".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Includes the singular and the plural and shall also mean and include
any person, firm, corporation, association, partnership or any other form of
association or organization.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Relates to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in
small quantities direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: When applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Relates to the sale of goods, merchandise,
articles or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of
resale.
WILFULLY: When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: Includes printing and any other mode of representing words
and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by law to
any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be in the
proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his
proper mark. (1975 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 701.8.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor unless
expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections,
including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (1975 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Municipal Infractions
1-4-2: License Revocation
1-4-3: Application Of Provisions
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS:
Whenever in any section of this code any act is prohibited or is made or
declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor or whenever in any
section of this code the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any
act is declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor and no specific
penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision shall constitute
a municipal infraction as set forth in Iowa Code 364.22. The provisions of Iowa
Code 364.22 are incorporated herein as though fully set out. A municipal
infraction is punishable by a civil penalty of not more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for each violation, or if the infraction is a repeat offense,
a civil penalty not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each repeat
offense. (Ord. 98-1, 3-2-1998)
1-4-2: LICENSE REVOCATION:
When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this code, any
license previously issued to him by the city may be revoked by the court or by
the city council. (1975 Code)
1-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any act which is of a continuing
nature or declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or
obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a breach or violation occurs or continues. (1975 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any
officer or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1975 Code)
CHAPTER 5
CITY CHARTER
SECTION:
1-5-1: Purpose
1-5-2: Charter
1-5-3: Form Of Government
1-5-4: Powers And Duties
1-5-5: Number And Term Of City Council
1-5-6: Term Of Mayor
1-5-7: Copies On File
1-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a charter embodying the form of
government existing on May 7, 1973. (Ord. 74, 5-7-1973)
1-5-2: CHARTER:
This chapter may be cited as the charter of the city 1 . (Ord. 74, 5-7-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 372.3.
1-5-3: FORM OF GOVERNMENT:
The form of government of the city is the mayor-council form of government.
(Ord. 74, 5-7-1973)
1-5-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The city council and mayor and other city officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by state law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the city. (Ord. 74, 5-7-1973)
1-5-5: NUMBER AND TERM OF CITY COUNCIL:
The city council consists of five (5) council members elected at large for
staggered terms of four (4) years. (Ord. 74, 5-7-1973; amd. 2004 Code)
1-5-6: TERM OF MAYOR:
The mayor is elected for a term of two (2) years. (Ord. 74, 5-7-1973)
1-5-7: COPIES ON FILE:
The city clerk shall keep an official copy of this charter on file with the
official records of the city clerk, shall immediately file a copy with the
secretary of state of Iowa, and shall keep copies of the charter available at
the city clerk's office for public inspection. (Ord. 74, 5-7-1973)
CHAPTER 6
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Regular Meetings
1-6-2: Special Meetings
1-6-3: Quorum
1-6-4: Committees
1-6-5: Order Of Business
1-6-6: Parliamentary Usage
1-6-7: Passage Of Ordinances
1-6-8: Votes
1-6-9: Public Posting Of Ordinances, Notices
1-6-10: Salaries Of Officers, Employees
1-6-11: Compensation Of Mayor And City Council Members
1-6-12: Contracts
1-6-1: REGULAR MEETINGS:
The regular meetings of the city council shall be held at the council chambers,
on the second Monday evening of each month. Meetings shall at all times be open
to the public. (Ord. 16-1, 9-12-2016)
1-6-2: SPECIAL MEETINGS:
The mayor, or any three (3) members of the city council, may call special
meetings by notice to each of the members and the mayor, personally served or
left at his usual place of residence, of which service a record shall be made
by the city clerk. Such notice may be waived in writing by all council members
and the mayor. Certificate of service or waiver of notice shall be filed by the
city clerk with the minutes of any such special meeting. (1921 Code; amd. Ord.
82, 4-5-1976)
1-6-3: QUORUM:
A majority of the whole number of the members of the city council, including
the mayor, shall constitute a quorum.
(1921 Code; amd. Ord. 82, 4-5-1976)
1-6-4: COMMITTEES:
At the first regular meeting of the city council, after the regular municipal
election, the mayor shall appoint the following named standing committees, each
of which shall consist of three (3) members:
   Finance
   Fire department and public safety
   Sewer
   Streets and alleys
   Water
(1921 Code; amd. Ord. 82, 4-5-1976)
1-6-5: ORDER OF BUSINESS:
The following order of business shall be observed at each meeting of the city
council so far as practicable:
   A.   Call to order.
   B.   Roll call.
   C.   Approval of agenda.
   D.   Approval of minutes of previous meeting(s).
   E.   Approval of bills.
   F.   Presentation of petitions or remonstrances.
   G.   Reports of standing committees.
   H.   Reports of special committees.
   I.   Presentation of ordinances.
   J.   Consideration of ordinances.
   K.   Readings and adoption of ordinances.
   L.   Resolutions.
   M.   Unfinished business.
   N.   New business.
(R.O. 1921, 8-15-1921; amd. Ord. 82, 4-5-1976; 2004 Code)
1-6-6: PARLIAMENTARY USAGE:
"Robert's Rules Of Order" shall govern the deliberations and parliamentary
usage of the meetings of the city council, except insofar as they may be
modified by the regulations of this code or the laws of the state of Iowa.
(R.O. 1921, 8-15-1921; amd. Ord. 82, 4-5-1976)
1-6-7: PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES 1 :
A proposed ordinance or amendment must be considered and voted on for passage
at two (2) city council meetings prior to the meeting at which it is to be
finally passed, unless this requirement is suspended by a recorded vote of not
less than three-fourths (3/4) of all the members of the city council. If a
proposed ordinance, amendment or resolution fails to receive sufficient votes
for passage at any consideration and vote thereon, the proposed ordinance,
amendment or resolution shall be considered defeated. (2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 380.3.
1-6-8: VOTES:
On the passage or adoption of every bylaw, ordinance and resolution or order,
the ayes and nays shall be called and recorded. (R.O. 1921, 8-15-1921)
1-6-9: PUBLIC POSTING OF ORDINANCES, NOTICES:
   A.   Purpose: Where there is no newspaper published within the corporate
limits of the city and publication of ordinances and certain other matters are
permitted by law to be posted in three (3) public places, the city council
desires to permanently designate these three (3) places so that citizens of the
city may readily ascertain the acts of city council which affect them without
doubt as to place of notice.
   B.   Listings; Length Of Notice: The three (3) public places where public
notice of ordinances and other matters permitted to be posted are to be
displayed are: (Ord. 73, 5-15-1973)
      1.   Steamboat Rock city hall.
      2.   United States post office at Steamboat Rock.
      3.   Public library. (Ord. 73, 5-15-1973; amd. 2004 Code)
   The city clerk is hereby directed to promptly post such ordinances and
notices, and to leave them so posted for not less than seven (7) days after the
first date of posting, and he shall note the first date of such posting on the
copies of said ordinance, on the official copy of the ordinance, and in the
official ordinance book immediately following the ordinance.
   C.   Removing Notice Unlawful: Removal of a public notice by persons other
than the city clerk shall be a misdemeanor. Such removal before the seven (7)
days have expired, however, shall not affect the validity of the ordinance.
(Ord. 73, 5-15-1973)
1-6-10: SALARIES OF OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES:
The salaries or compensation paid the various city officers and employees shall
be as set by the mayor and city council from time to time. (1975 Code)
1-6-11: COMPENSATION OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS:
The compensation of the mayor shall be nine hundred dollars ($900.00) per year.
The compensation of each council member shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00) for
each regular meeting and seven dollars fifty cents ($7.50) for each special
meeting or public hearing if not a part of a regular or special meeting.
Council members shall be compensated only for meetings actually attended. (Ord.
05-01, 2-7-2005, eff. 1-1-2006)
1-6-12: CONTRACTS:
A city officer or employee shall not have an interest, direct or indirect, in
any contract or job of work or material or the profits thereof or services to
be furnished or performed for the city. A contract entered into in violation
hereof is void. The provisions of this section do not apply to contracts not
otherwise permitted by Iowa Code 362.5 for the purchase of goods or services
which benefit a city officer or employee, if the purchases benefiting that
officer or employee do not exceed a cumulative total purchase price of two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) in a fiscal year. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 7
MAYOR
SECTION:
1-7-1: Executive Officer
1-7-2: Presiding Officer
1-7-3: Signature; Ordinances, Resolutions
1-7-4: Report To City Council
1-7-5: Signature; Contracts
1-7-6: General Powers And Duties
1-7-1: EXECUTIVE OFFICER 1 :
The mayor shall be the chief executive officer, and it shall be his duty to
enforce all provisions of this code. He shall be a conservator of the peace,
and within the city limits shall have the powers conferred upon sheriffs to
suppress disorders. He may, upon view, arrest anyone guilty of a violation of
any provisions of this code or of any crime under the laws of this state. He
shall, upon information supported by affidavit, issue process for the arrest of
any person charged with said violation. He shall supervise the conduct of all
officers, shall examine the grounds of complaints made against them, and cause
all neglect or violation of duty to be corrected or report the same to the
proper tribunal that they may be dealt with as provided law. (1975 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 372.14.
1-7-2: PRESIDING OFFICER:
The mayor shall be the presiding officer of the city council. (1975 Code)
1-7-3: SIGNATURE; ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS:
The mayor shall sign all commissions, licenses and permits granted or issued by
the authority of the city council and do such other acts as may require his
signature or certificate.
The mayor shall sign every ordinance or resolution passed by the city council
before the same shall be in force, and if he refuses to sign any such ordinance
or resolution, he shall call a meeting of the city council within fourteen (14)
days thereafter and return the same with his reasons therefor. If he fails to
call the meeting within the time fixed herein or fails to return the ordinances
with his reasons as herein required, such ordinance or resolution shall become
operative without his signature. Upon the return of any such ordinance or
resolution by the mayor to the city council it may pass the same over his
objection upon a call of yeas and nays by not less than two-thirds (2/3) vote
of the elected city council, and the city clerk shall certify on said ordinance
or resolution that the same was passed by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the city
council, and sign it officially as city clerk. (1975 Code)
1-7-4: REPORT TO CITY COUNCIL:
The mayor shall, at the first regular meeting of the newly elected city council
in January, and at such other times as he may deem expedient, report to the
city council concerning the affairs of the city and recommend such measures as
to him may seem advisable. (1975 Code)
1-7-5: SIGNATURE; CONTRACTS 2 :
The mayor shall, in behalf of the city, sign all contracts made between the
city and any other party, where the contracts are authorized or directed to be
made by the city council, except in cases where some other person or committee
is especially authorized to do so and he shall see that all contracts made with
the city are faithfully performed by the contracting parties, and in all legal
matters where the city is a party interested in the results, he shall advise
with and as far as practicable, assist the city attorney in collecting the
testimony, conducting the trial or protecting the interests of the city.
In all cases where contracts are executed either by the mayor, a committee or
other persons authorized, it shall be the duty of the person executing the
contract on the part of the city, to immediately file such contract with the
city clerk and cause to be delivered to the other contracting party a copy
thereof, if such party so requires. (1975 Code)
 
Notes
2 2. See section 1-6-12 of this title relating to interest in contracts.
1-7-6: GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES:
The mayor shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be
provided by the city council, the provisions of this code or the laws of the
state, and shall transmit to his successor in office all books, papers,
records, documents and property, together with an invoice of the same in his
custody or appertaining to his office. (1975 Code)
CHAPTER 8
CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1-8-1: Meetings; Vote
1-8-2: Books; Stationery; City Council Use
1-8-3: Public Record
1-8-4: Custody Of Records
1-8-5: Office; Seal
1-8-6: Public Funds; Reports
1-8-7: Record Of Money; Property
1-8-8: Separate Accounts
1-8-9: Utility Accounts
1-8-10: Warrants; Vote
1-8-11: Warrant Book
1-8-12: Warrant Record Book
1-8-13: List Of Warrants
1-8-14: Monthly Settlement; Report
1-8-15: Certificate Of Levy; Filing
1-8-16: Record Ordinances
1-8-17: Certify Ordinances
1-8-18: Furnish Copies; Public Document
1-8-19: Bond Book; Record
1-8-20: General Powers And Duties
1-8-1: MEETINGS; VOTE:
The city clerk shall attend all meetings of the city council, unless prevented
for valid reason, but in no event have the right to vote on any question before
it. If the city clerk is not present at a meeting, the mayor shall appoint a
temporary city clerk for the meeting. (1975 Code)
1-8-2: BOOKS; STATIONERY; CITY COUNCIL USE:
The city clerk shall procure all necessary books and stationery for the use of
his office, and shall provide the same for the use of the mayor and city
council. Provided that expenditures by the city clerk shall be subject to
approval of the city council. (1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
1-8-3: PUBLIC RECORD:
The city clerk shall make an accurate record of all proceedings of the city
council and of all rules and ordinances adopted by the city council, and the
same shall at all times be open to the public. (1975 Code)
1-8-4: CUSTODY OF RECORDS:
The city clerk shall have custody of safe keeping of all records, resolutions
and orders of the city council, all contracts, documents or papers in which the
city is a party in interest, all original drafts of ordinances and bylaws, all
reports of the various officers who may be required to file reports of their
official acts, and all other papers that may come into his hands as city clerk.
All receipts, vouchers and other documents kept, or that may be required to be
kept, necessary to prove the validity of every transaction and identity of
every person having any beneficial relation thereto, shall be filed and
preserved in the office of the city clerk. (1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
1-8-5: OFFICE; SEAL:
The city clerk shall keep an office at some convenient place in the city to be
provided or designated as such by the city council, and shall keep the
corporate seal thereof in his charge, and attach the same to all orders or
certificates which it may be necessary or proper to authenticate. (1975 Code)
1-8-6: PUBLIC FUNDS; REPORTS:
The city clerk shall establish and keep the accounts so the same shall exhibit
a true and detailed statement of all public funds collected, received and
expended on account of the city for any purpose whatever, by any and all public
officers, employees or any other persons. Such accounts shall show the receipt,
use and disposition of all public property, and the income, if any, derived
therefrom, and of all sources of public income and amount due and received from
each source. The city clerk shall prepare a monthly report of such funds to the
city council. (1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
1-8-7: RECORD OF MONEY; PROPERTY:
The city clerk shall keep a correct account, in a book provided for that
purpose, of all money or property belonging to the city coming into his hands,
stating from whom and on what account the same was received. (1975 Code)
1-8-8: SEPARATE ACCOUNTS:
The city clerk shall keep separate accounts for every appropriation, showing
the date and manner of each payment made out of the funds provided by such
appropriation. He shall keep separate accounts for each department, public
improvement or undertaking. (1975 Code)
1-8-9: UTILITY ACCOUNTS:
The city clerk shall keep separate accounts for each public utility owned or
operated by the city. Said separate accounts shall show the true and entire
cost of the utility and operation thereof, the amount collected annually by
general or special taxation for the services rendered to the public, and the
amount and character of the service rendered therefor, and the amount collected
annually from private users, if any, for the services rendered to them, and the
amount and character of the services rendered therefor. (1975 Code)
1-8-10: WARRANTS; VOTE:
The city clerk shall draw and sign all checks and warrants, but shall not draw
any such check or warrant, except upon the vote of the city council. All
warrants shall be drawn, payable to "order". Every warrant issued by the city
clerk shall state on what fund drawn and for what claim allowed. (1975 Code)
1-8-11: WARRANT BOOK:
The city clerk shall keep a warrant book, bound with a marginal back, on which
margin he shall keep a record of the number, date, amount, payee's name and
post office address, upon what fund drawn, and for what claim each warrant is
issued. Whenever any warrant is forwarded to the payee by mail, the city clerk
shall note this fact on the margin of the warrant book, with the date of
mailing, and sign his name thereto. (1975 Code)
1-8-12: WARRANT RECORD BOOK:
The city clerk shall keep a warrant record book containing a record of all
warrants issued arranged with ruled columns, which shall show the following
particulars of every warrant:
   Date
   Number, amount
   To whom payable; on what fund drawn. (1975 Code)
1-8-13: LIST OF WARRANTS:
The city clerk shall, on the first Monday of each month, furnish the city
council a sworn and complete list of all warrants, and amount thereof, drawn by
him during the preceding month, which list shall state on whose account and the
object and purpose for which each warrant was drawn. (1975 Code)
1-8-14: MONTHLY SETTLEMENT; REPORT:
At each regular monthly meeting, the city clerk shall report to the city
council the true condition of each separate fund belonging to the treasury and
what payments have been made from each fund, the amounts, if any borrowed in
anticipation of taxes to be collected for each fund, and from whom obtained,
and a statement of the total indebtedness for all purposes. (1975 Code; amd.
2004 Code)
1-8-15: CERTIFICATE OF LEVY; FILING:
The city clerk shall prepare a certificate of levy of all special assessments,
stating the number of installments, the rate of interest and time when payable,
certified as correct by him and he shall file such certificate with the county
auditor. (1975 Code)
1-8-16: RECORD ORDINANCES:
Whenever an ordinance is passed by the city council and signed by the mayor, or
becomes effective without the signature of the mayor, the city clerk shall
record the same in the ordinance book for that purpose, and shall, together
with the mayor, authenticate the same. (1975 Code)
1-8-17: CERTIFY ORDINANCES:
Immediately following the record of every ordinance, the city clerk shall
append a certificate, stating therein the time and manner of publication
thereof. (1975 Code)
1-8-18: FURNISH COPIES; PUBLIC DOCUMENT:
The city clerk shall, upon request and without charge, furnish to any city
officer a copy of any record, paper or public document made or filed in his
office, when the same may be necessary to such officer in the discharge of his
duty, and he shall furnish a like copy to any citizen when required, upon
payment of the costs set from time to time by the mayor and city council. (1975
Code; amd. 2004 Code)
1-8-19: BOND BOOK; RECORD:
The city clerk shall keep a book to be known as the record of official bonds,
and shall record therein the official bond of all city officers, elective or
appointive. He shall index such record under the title of each office and shall
show the name of each principal, his sureties and the date of the filing of the
bond. (1975 Code)
1-8-20: GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES:
The city clerk shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as
may be provided by the city council, provisions of this code, or the laws of
this state. The city clerk shall transmit to his successor in office all books,
papers, records, documents and property, together with an invoice of the same,
in his custody or appertaining to his office. (1975 Code)
CHAPTER 9
PUBLIC WORKS SUPERINTENDENT
SECTION:
1-9-1: Duties And Responsibilities
1-9-2: Records And Reports
1-9-1: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The superintendent of public works shall have the duties as provided in this
chapter, namely: (1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
   A.   Sewer System:
      1.   Under control of the city council, have charge of the construction,
repair and upkeep of the sewer system and as such he shall look after and keep
or cause to be kept in repair the pumping station, sewage disposal plant,
machinery, wells, galleries, water mains, hydrants and standpipes, sewers,
manholes, flushtanks, septic tanks, meters and all accessories connected with
and belonging to the sewer system.
      2.   See that all provisions of this code and that all orders and
directions of the city council relative to the sewer system and all contracts
with references to said system are faithfully complied with.
   B.   Street And Alley System: Be responsible for all improvements upon the
streets, alleys and public grounds under the direction of the street and alley
committee and the city council. (1975 Code)
   C.   Street And Sidewalk Repairs: With direction from the city council,
oversee all necessary repairs upon the streets, alleys and sidewalks of the
city.
   D.   Excavations And Barricades: Oversee for all excavations in the streets
and alleys for laying sewer or water mains or making connections therewith, see
that proper barricades with warning lights are maintained and that such
excavations are refilled and pavement replaced as required by ordinance and
subject to his approval. (1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
   E.   Waterworks System: Be in charge of the waterworks system of the city.
   F.   Water Shutoff: The city clerk, with authority of the mayor, shall
notify the superintendent of public works when water is to be shut off due to a
delinquent bill, which action shall take place immediately.
   G.   Use Of City Equipment: Only use city owned equipment for duties listed
in this section for the use thereof, unless otherwise authorized by the mayor
or city council. (2004 Code)
   H.   Additional Duties: To have such other powers and perform such other
duties as required by the mayor and city council or the provisions of this code
or the laws of the state. (1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
1-9-2: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
The superintendent of public works shall:
   A.   Records: Transmit to his successor in office all books, papers,
records, documents and property belonging to the city.
   B.   Report Violations: Report to the mayor all persons refusing to comply
with or violating an provisions of this code in relation to city property,
streets, alleys or public grounds.
   C.   Annual Report: At the first meeting of the city council in January of
each year, make a comprehensive report, and at each regular city council
meeting give a report on current conditions of all departments under his
responsibility. (1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 10
CITY SEAL AND BOUNDARIES
SECTION:
1-10-1: City Seal
1-10-2: City Boundaries
1-10-1: CITY SEAL:
The seal of the city, now and hereafter to be used, is described as follows: a
disc having upon the margin thereof, the words "city of Steamboat Rock, Iowa",
and in the center thereof, the word "seal", and such seal is hereby declared to
be the official seal of the city. (Ord. 2; 8-18-1921; amd. 1975 Code)
1-10-2: CITY BOUNDARIES:
The boundaries of the city shall be as follows:
   the northeast quarter (NE1/4)of section 28; and the east half (E1/2) of the
northwest quarter (NW1/4) of section 28; and east three-fourths (E3/4) of the
north one-eighth (N1/8) of the southwest quarter (SW1/4) of section 28; and the
south 530 feet of the east half (E1/2) of the west half (W1/2) of the northwest
quarter (NW1/4) of section 28; and the south half (S1/2) of the north half (N1/
2) of the northwest quarter (NW1/4) of section 27; and the north half (N1/2) of
the south half (S1/2) of the northwest quarter (NW1/4) of section 27, all in
township 88 north, range 19, west of the 5th P.M., Hardin County, Iowa, all as
shown by the plat recorded in book 528, page 339 of the records of the Hardin
County, Iowa, recorder.
(1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 11
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Purpose
1-11-2: Nominating Method Used
1-11-3: Canvass Of Votes
1-11-4: Runoff Elections
1-11-5: Candidates Elected
1-11-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to designate the methods by which candidates for
elective municipal offices in the city shall be nominated. (Ord. 110, 1-7-1991)
1-11-2: NOMINATING METHOD USED:
For the 1991 municipal election and in subsequent municipal elections of the
city, all candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated by the
procedures set forth in Iowa Code chapter 45. The method prescribed herein for
nominating candidates shall remain in effect until or unless changed by
ordinance. (Ord. 110, 1-7-1991)
1-11-3: CANVASS OF VOTES:
On the day following the municipal election, the county board of supervisors
shall publicly canvass election returns as provided by Iowa Code 376.9 and
50.24. A runoff election shall be held under the following circumstances:
   A.   If no candidate for a single office receives a majority of the votes
cast for that office, the two (2) candidates receiving the largest number of
votes shall be placed on the runoff ballot.
   B.   In an at-large contest or contests where a position or positions remain
unfilled because of the failure of a candidate or candidates to receive a
majority of the votes cast, candidates who receive the highest number of votes
cast for the office or offices to be filled, to the extent of twice the number
of unfilled positions, are candidates in the runoff election. (Ord. 80, 11-3-
1975)
1-11-4: RUNOFF ELECTIONS 1 :
A runoff election may be held only for positions unfilled because of failure of
a sufficient number of candidates to receive a majority vote in the regular
city election. When the city council has chosen a runoff election in lieu of a
primary, the county board of supervisors shall publicly canvass the tally lists
of the votes cast in the regular city election, following the procedures
prescribed in Iowa Code 50.24, at a meeting to be held beginning at one o'clock
(1:00) P.M. on the second day following the regular city election. Candidates
who do not receive a majority of the votes cast for an office, but who receive
the highest number of votes cast for that office in the regular city election,
to the extent of twice the number of unfilled positions, are candidates in the
runoff election.
Runoff elections shall be held four (4) weeks after the date of the regular
city election and shall be conducted in the same manner as regular city
elections.
Candidates in the runoff election who receive the highest number of votes cast
for each office on the ballot are elected to the extent necessary to fill the
open positions. (2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 376.9.
1-11-5: CANDIDATES ELECTED:
Candidates in the runoff election who receive the highest number of votes cast
for the office for which they have filed are elected to the extent necessary to
fill the positions for which they have filed. (Ord. 80, 11-3-1975)
TITLE 2
DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
2-1-1: City Council Control
2-1-2: Officer In Command
2-1-3: Membership Of Department
2-1-4: Vacancies
2-1-5: Removal
2-1-6: Rules
2-1-7: Duties Of Department
2-1-8: Interference With Firefighters
2-1-9: Refuse To Assist
2-1-10: Right-Of-Way
2-1-11: Fire Station; Parking
2-1-12: Vehicles At Fire
2-1-13: Destroy Fire Property
2-1-14: Driving Over Fire Hose
2-1-15: Assisting Other Municipalities
2-1-1: CITY COUNCIL CONTROL:
The Fire Department shall be under the control and supervision of the City
Council. (Ord. 25, 10-6-1930)
2-1-2: OFFICER IN COMMAND:
The Fire Chief shall be the officer highest in command, and next in command
shall be the Assistant Chief and in the absence of both, the next officer in
rank, whom the Chief shall designate shall assume command of the department.
(Ord. 25, 10-6-1930)
2-1-3: MEMBERSHIP OF DEPARTMENT:
The Fire Department shall consist of a Chief of the Fire Department, an
Assistant Chief, any other officers that the Chief deems necessary for the safe
and efficient operation of the department, and a volunteer fire company of not
fewer than ten (10) members. The volunteer Fire Department as existing shall be
the Fire Department under this chapter, but the membership thereof shall be
subject to the approval of the City Council. Any person over eighteen (18)
years of age, who resides or works within fifteen (15) minutes of the fire
station of the City shall be eligible for membership. (Ord. 17-2, 12-11-2017)
2-1-4: VACANCIES:
All vacancies in the Fire Department shall be filled by the appointment by the
Fire Department personnel, but the appointment of all new members shall be
subject to the approval of the City Council. (Ord. 25, 10-6-1930; amd. 1975
Code; 2004 Code)
2-1-5: REMOVAL:
If any firefighter refuses or neglects to attend any fire without submitting a
sufficient and satisfactory excuse to the Chief of the Fire Department, or
shall neglect or refuse to do his duty as a firefighter, or obey the orders of
the Chief or his proper commanding officer, or shall leave his post of duty at
a fire without permission of the Chief or officer in charge or violate or
ignore any rule or regulation established by the City Council, he shall be
subject to expulsion from the Fire Department, either by action by the Chief of
the Fire Department or the City Council. (Ord. 25, 10-6-1930)
2-1-6: RULES:
The City Council may adopt such rules and regulations, in regard to the Fire
Department, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Code or the laws of
the State, as the City Council shall deem advisable. (Ord. 25, 10-6-1930)
2-1-7: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT:
The Fire Department shall be under the control and direction of the Chief of
the Fire Department or, in his absence, shall be under the control and
direction of the next ranking officer. Upon an alarm of fire the members of the
Fire Department shall proceed immediately to the place of the fire, with the
necessary apparatus in their charge, and there work and manage the same under
the direction of the Chief or his assistants, and use such apparatus, in the
most effective manner until the fire is extinguished and shall not move
therefrom except by permission of the officer in command, and on such
permission they shall return the fire apparatus to its place of occupancy.
(Ord. 25, 10-6-1930)
2-1-8: INTERFERENCE WITH FIREFIGHTERS:
It shall be unlawful to hinder or interfere with any officer or firefighter in
the performance of his duty at a fire, or going to or returning from a fire, or
while attending to his duties as a member of the fire department. (Ord. 25, 10-
6-1930)
2-1-9: REFUSE TO ASSIST:
It shall be unlawful to neglect or refuse to assist the firefighter, in their
duties at any fire, when called upon to do so by the chief of the fire
department or the officer acting in his place. (Ord. 25, 10-6-1930; amd. 1975
Code)
2-1-10: RIGHT OF WAY:
Fire equipment shall have the right of way on all streets in going to a fire,
and every vehicle of any kind, on the approach of any fire equipment shall
immediately draw up to the curb or the side of the street and remain stationary
until the fire department equipment has passed. All pedestrians, except
firefighters, along the street along which the fire equipment is passing shall
remain on the sidewalks and away from the street intersections. (Ord. 25, 10-6-
1930; amd. 1975 Code)
2-1-11: FIRE STATION; PARKING:
It shall be unlawful to park or leave standing any vehicle of any kind within
or in front of the fire department driveway or within ten feet (10') of such
driveway. (Ord. 25, 10-6-1930; amd. 1975 Code)
2-1-12: VEHICLES AT FIRE:
It shall be unlawful for any vehicle of any kind, except vehicles driven by
officers or employees of the municipality whose duty it is to be at fires, to
enter the block in which the fire department building is situated, after a fire
alarm has been sounded, until after all the fire equipment has left the block
on its way to the fire.
It shall be unlawful for any vehicle of any kind to follow, within six hundred
feet (600'), a fire truck on the way to a fire, or to be driven or left
standing within three hundred feet (300') of a fire. (Ord. 25, 10-6-1930; amd.
1975 Code)
2-1-13: DESTROY FIRE PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful to cut, deface, destroy or injure any hose, wires, poles,
signal boxes or any other property or fixtures belonging to or connected with
the fire department or the fire alarm system, or to give or cause to be given
or made, any false alarm of fire. (Ord. 25, 10-6-1930)
2-1-14: DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE:
It shall be unlawful to drive or run any train or other vehicle across, along
or upon any fire hose, unless directed to do so by a firefighter or a police
officer. (Ord. 25, 10-6-1930; amd. 1975 Code)
2-1-15: ASSISTING OTHER MUNICIPALITIES:
The firefighting equipment and firefighters of the city may respond to calls
for firefighting or other emergency assistance in any other city or village
upon receipt of information of the need or advisability of such assistance in
such other city or village, as may be directed by the fire chief or assistant
fire chief. Such equipment and firefighters may respond to calls for
firefighting or other emergency assistance to such places in Hardin and Grundy
Counties, Iowa, as may be directed by the fire chief or assistant fire chief.
(Ord. 47, 1950; amd. 1975 Code)
CHAPTER 2
BOARD OF LIBRARY TRUSTEES
SECTION:
2-2-1: Purpose
2-2-2: Public Library
2-2-3: Library Trustees
2-2-4: Qualifications Of Trustees
2-2-5: Organization Of The Board
2-2-6: Powers And Duties
2-2-7: Power To Contract With Others
2-2-8: Nonresident Use Of The Library
2-2-9: Library Account
2-2-10: Annual Report
2-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the establishment of a free
public library for the city and for the creation and appointment of a city
library board of trustees, and to specify that board's powers and duties 1 .
(Ord., 10-5-1981)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 392.5.
2-2-2: PUBLIC LIBRARY:
There is hereby established a free public library for the city, to be known as
the Steamboat Rock public library. (Ord., 10-5-1981)
2-2-3: LIBRARY TRUSTEES:
The board of trustees of the Steamboat Rock public library, hereinafter
referred to as the board, consists of four (4) resident members and one
nonresident member. All resident board members are to be appointed by the mayor
with the approval of the city council. The nonresident member shall be
appointed by the mayor with the approval of the board of supervisors. (Ord. 00-
03, 1-8-2001)
2-2-4: QUALIFICATIONS OF TRUSTEES:
All of the members of the board shall be bona fide citizens and residents of
the city (except the nonresident member), and all shall be over the age of
eighteen (18). (Ord. 00-03, 1-8-2001)
2-2-5: ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD:
   A.   Terms Of Office: All appointments to the board shall be for six (6)
years, except to fill vacancies. Each term shall commence on July 1.
Appointments shall be made every two (2) years of one-third (1/3) the total
number as near as possible, to stagger the terms.
   B.   Vacancies: The position of any trustee shall be vacant if he moves
permanently from the city; or if he is absent from six (6) consecutive regular
meetings of the board, except in the case of sickness or temporary absence from
the city. Vacancies in the board shall be filled by appointment of the mayor,
with approval of the city council, and the new trustee shall fill out the
unexpired term for which the appointment is made.
   C.   Compensation: Trustees shall receive no compensation for their
services. (Ord., 10-5-1981)
2-2-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   A.   To meet and elect from its members a president, a secretary and such
other officers as it deems necessary. The librarian shall serve as board
treasurer, but shall not be a member of the board.
   B.   To have charge, control and supervision of the public library, its
appurtenances, fixtures and rooms containing the same.
   C.   To direct and control all the affairs of the library.
   D.   To employ a librarian, and authorize the librarian to employ such
assistants and employees as may be necessary for the proper management of the
library, and fix their compensation; provided, however, that prior to such
employment, the compensation of the librarian, assistants and employees shall
have been fixed and approved by a majority of the members of the board voting
in favor thereof.
   E.   To remove by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the board the librarian and
provide procedures for the removal of assistants or employees for misdemeanor,
incompetency or inattention to duty, subject, however, to the provisions of
Iowa Code chapter 35C.
   F.   To authorize the librarian to select, and make purchases of books,
pamphlets, magazines, periodicals, papers, maps, journals, other library
materials, furniture, fixtures, stationery and supplies for the library within
budgetary limits set by the board.
   G.   To authorize the use of the library by nonresidents of the city and to
fix charges therefor.
   H.   To make and adopt, amend, modify or repeal rules and regulations, not
inconsistent with ordinances and the law, for the care, use, government and
management of the library and the business of the board, fixing and enforcing
penalties for violations.
   I.   To have exclusive control of the expenditure of all funds allocated for
library purposes by the city council, and for all monies available by gift or
otherwise for all the erection of library buildings, and of all other monies
belonging to the library including fines and rentals collected, under the rules
of the board, subject to the authorization of city council.
   J.   To accept gifts of real property, personal property, or mixed property,
and devises and bequests, including trust funds; to take the title to said
property in the name of the library; to execute deeds and bills of sale for the
conveyance of said property; and to expend the funds received by them from such
gifts, for the improvement of the library, subject to the authorization of city
council.
   K.   To keep a record of its proceedings.
   L.   To enforce the performance of conditions on gifts, devises and bequests
accepted by the city by action against the city council.
   M.   To have authority to make agreements with the local historical
associations, where such exists, and to set apart the necessary room and to
care for such articles as may come into the possession of the association. The
trustees are further authorized to purchase necessary receptacles and materials
for the preservation and protection of such articles as are in their judgment
of a historical and educational nature and pay for the same out of funds
allocated for library purposes. (Ord., 10-5-1981)
2-2-7: POWER TO CONTRACT WITH OTHERS:
   A.   Contracting: The board may contract with any other boards of trustees
of free public libraries, any other city, school corporation, private or
semiprivate organization, institution of higher learning, township, or county,
or with the trustees of any county library district for the use of the library
by their respective residents.
   B.   Termination: Such a contract may be terminated at any time by mutual
consent of the contracting parties. It also may be terminated by a majority
vote of the electors represented by either of the contracting parties. Such a
termination proposition shall be submitted to the electors by the governing
body of a contracting party on a written petition of not less than five percent
(5%) in number of the electors who voted for governor in the territory of the
party at the last general election. The petition must be presented to the
governing body not less than forty (40) days before the election. The
proposition may be submitted at any election provided by law that is held in
the territory of the party who is seeking to terminate the contract. (Ord., 10-
5-1981)
2-2-8: NONRESIDENT USE OF THE LIBRARY:
The board may authorize the use of the library by nonresidents in any one or
more of the following ways:
   A.   By lending the books or other materials of the library to nonresidents
on the same terms and conditions as to residents of the city, or upon payment
of a special nonresident library fee.
   B.   By establishing depositories of library books or other materials to be
loaned to nonresidents.
   C.   By establishing bookmobiles or a traveling library so that books or
other library materials may be loaned to nonresidents.
   D.   By establishing branch libraries for lending books or other library
materials to nonresidents. (Ord., 10-5-1981)
2-2-9: LIBRARY ACCOUNT:
All money appropriated by the city council from the general fund for the
operation and maintenance of the library shall be set aside in an account for
the library. Expenditures shall be paid for only on orders of the board, signed
by its president and secretary. (Ord., 10-5-1981)
2-2-10: ANNUAL REPORT:
The board shall make a report to the city council immediately after the close
of the municipal fiscal year. This report shall contain statements of the
condition of the library, the number of books added thereto, the number
circulated, the amount of fines collected, and the amount of money expended in
the maintenance of the library during the year, together with such further
information required by the city council. (Ord., 10-5-1981)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BILLIARD, POOL ROOMS
SECTION:
3-1-1: License Required
3-1-2: License Fee
3-1-3: Hours Of Operation
3-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall, in the city, have, keep or maintain a billiard or pool room
for public use or hire, without first obtaining a license as hereinafter
provided. (Ord. 11, 9-5-1921)
3-1-2: LICENSE FEE:
The license fee to be paid for maintaining a billiard or pool room within the
city shall be the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) per year or part thereof where
such billiard or pool room has but one pool or billiard table, seventeen
dollars fifty cents ($17.50) per year or part thereof where such billiard or
pool room has but two (2) pool or billiard tables and five dollars ($5.00) per
year or part thereof for each additional pool or billiard table more than two
(2), payable annually in advance on July 1 to the city clerk. (Ord. 11, 9-5-
1921; amd. Ord. 38, 2-16-1948; 2004 Code)
3-1-3: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Any person doing business under a license issued in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter shall close his place of business not later than
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight of each night during the year, and shall keep
the same closed until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the next day, and shall keep the
same closed all day on the first day of the week, commonly called Sunday. (Ord.
11, 9-5-1921)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Purpose
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: Eligibility For Liquor Control License Or Beer Permit
3-2-4: Conditions For Approval Of License Or Permit; Premises
3-2-5: Beer Permits; Classes
3-2-6: Liquor Licenses; Classes
3-2-7: Separate Locations; Class B Or C
3-2-8: Application, Contents; Bond
3-2-9: Investigation Of Applicant
3-2-10: Simplified Application For Renewal
3-2-11: Civil Liability
3-2-12: License And Permit Fees
3-2-13: Nature Of License Or Permit
3-2-14: Action By City Council
3-2-15: Expiration Of License Or Permit
3-2-16: Refunds
3-2-17: Transfers
3-2-18: Prohibited Sales And Acts
3-2-19: Suspension And Revocation
3-2-20: Effect Of Revocation
3-2-21: Appeal And Hearing
3-2-22: Consumption In Public Places; Intoxication
3-2-23: Persons Under Legal Age
3-2-24: Penalties
3-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide administration of licenses and
permits and for local regulations and procedures for the conduct of the sale
and consumption of beer and liquor, for the protection of the safety, morals
and general welfare of this city. (1975 Code)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
Where words and phrases, used in this chapter are defined by Iowa Code 123.3,
such definitions shall apply to their use in this chapter and are adopted by
reference. Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, shall have the following
meanings:
GROCERY STORE: Any retail establishment, the business of which consists of the
sale of food products or beverages for consumption off the premises.
PHARMACY: A drugstore in which drugs and medicines are exposed for sale and
sold at retail, or in which prescriptions of licensed physicians and surgeons,
dentists or veterinarians are compounded and sold by a registered pharmacist.
(1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
3-2-3: ELIGIBILITY FOR LIQUOR CONTROL LICENSE OR BEER PERMIT:
Upon meeting the requirements imposed by state law and the ordinances of this
city, a person who is of good moral character as defined by state law may apply
for a liquor control license or a beer permit. In the case of a club
corporation or partnership, the officers of the club or corporation and the
partners of a partnership shall be persons of good moral character as defined
by state law. (1975 Code)
3-2-4: CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL OF LICENSE OR PERMIT; PREMISES:
An applicant for a liquor control license or beer permit, when approved by the
city council, must allow members of the fire department, peace officers and any
inspector designated by the mayor, to enter the premises without warrant to
inspect for violations of the provisions of state law and of this chapter, and
provided that: (1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
   A.   No liquor control license or beer permit shall be approved for premises
which do not conform to all applicable laws, ordinances, resolutions, health
and fire regulations.
   B.   No licensee shall have or maintain any interior access to residential
or sleeping quarters unless permission is granted by the state beer and liquor
control director in the form of a living quarters permit. (1975 Code)
   C.   The premises for which a class B beer permit is sought must be located
within the city limits.
   D.   The premises of a class B beer permit shall, at the time of the
application, continue to be equipped with sufficient tables and seats to
accommodate twenty five (25) persons at one time. (1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
3-2-5: BEER PERMITS; CLASSES 1 :
Beer permits shall be classed as follows:
   A.   Class B: A class B beer permit shall allow the holder to sell beer at
retail for consumption on or off the premises. (1975 Code)
   B.   Class C: A class C beer permit shall allow the holder to sell beer at
retail for consumption off the premises only. Such sales shall be in original
containers only. No class C permit shall be issued to any person except the
owner or proprietor of a retail establishment. (1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 123.124.
3-2-6: LIQUOR LICENSES; CLASSES 2 :
Liquor control licenses shall be classed as follows:
   A.   Class A: A class A liquor control license issued to a club shall
authorize the holder to purchase alcoholic liquors from the department only,
and to sell such liquors and beer, to bona fide members and their guests by the
individual drink for consumption on the premises only.
   B.   Class B: A class B liquor control license issued to a hotel or motel
shall authorize the holder to purchase alcoholic liquors from the department
only, and to sell such liquors and beer to patrons by the individual drink for
consumption on the premises, provided that beer may be sold for consumption off
the premises. Each such license shall be effective throughout the premises
described in the application.
   C.   Class C: A class C liquor control license issued to a commercial
establishment must be issued in the name of the individual or individuals who
actually own the entire business and shall authorize the holder or holders to
purchase alcoholic liquors from the department only, and to sell such liquors
and beer to patrons by the individual drink for consumption on the premises,
provided that beer may be sold for consumption off the premises. (1975 Code)
 
Notes
2 2. IC § 123.30.
3-2-7: SEPARATE LOCATIONS; CLASS B OR C:
Every person holding a class B or class C permit having more than one place of
business where such beer is sold shall be required to have a separate license
for each separate place of business, except as otherwise permitted by state
law. (1975 Code)
3-2-8: APPLICATION, CONTENTS; BOND:
A verified application for the original issuance or the renewal of a liquor
control license or a beer permit shall be filed at such time, in such number of
copies, and in such form as the state director of beer and liquor control shall
prescribe, on forms prescribed by him. The application shall be accompanied by
the required fee and bond and be filed with the city council for approval or
disapproval. (1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
3-2-9: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
Upon receipt of an original application for a liquor license or beer permit by
the city clerk, it shall be forwarded to a peace officer designated by the
mayor, who shall conduct an investigation and shall submit a written report on
the applicant as to the truth of the facts averred in the application and a
recommendation to the city council as to the approval of the license or permit.
It shall be the duty of the mayor and the fire chief to inspect the premises to
determine if they conform to the requirements of the city, and no license or
permit shall be approved until or unless an approving report has been filed
with the city council by such officers. (1975 Code)
3-2-10: SIMPLIFIED APPLICATION FOR RENEWAL:
Upon receipt of an application for the renewal of a liquor license or beer
permit, it shall be forwarded to a peace officer to be designated by the mayor,
who shall conduct an investigation and shall submit a written report on the
applicant as to the truth of the facts answered in the application and a
recommendation to the city council as to the approval of the license or permit.
(1975 Code)
3-2-11: CIVIL LIABILITY:
Every liquor control license and class B beer permittee shall furnish proof of
financial responsibility either by the existence of a liability insurance
policy or by posting bond in such amount as determined by the department. (1975
Code)
3-2-12: LICENSE AND PERMIT FEES:
A one hundred dollar ($100.00) fee 1  shall be submitted with applications for
class B beer permits, and the fee required by state law 2  shall be submitted
with applications for class A and C permits. (1975 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 123.124.
2 2. IC § 123.36.
3-2-13: NATURE OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
A liquor control license or beer permit shall be a purely personal privilege
and be revocable for cause. It shall not constitute property nor be subject to
attachment and execution nor be alienable nor assignable, and in any case it
shall cease upon the death of the permittee or licensee. However, the director
may, in his discretion, allow the executor or administrator of a permittee or
licensee to operate the business of the decedent for a reasonable time not to
exceed the expiration date of the permit or license. Every permit or license
shall be issued in the name of the applicant and no person holding a permit or
license shall allow any other person to use same. (1975 Code)
3-2-14: ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL:
Action taken by the city council shall be so endorsed on the application and
thereafter the application, fee and bond shall be forwarded to the Iowa beer
and liquor control department for such further action as is provided by law.
(1975 Code)
3-2-15: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
All liquor control licenses and beer permits, unless sooner suspended or
revoked, shall expire one year from date of issuance. Six (6) or eight (8)
month seasonal licenses or beer permits may be issued for a proportionate part
of the license or permit fee. No seasonal license or permit shall be renewed
except after a period of two (2) months. Seasonal licensing shall be only as
permitted by state regulation. (1975 Code)
3-2-16: REFUNDS:
Any such licensee or permittee, or his executor, administrator or any person
duly appointed the court to take charge of and administer the property or
assets of a licensee or permittee for the benefit of his creditors, may
voluntarily surrender such license or permit to the department and when so
surrendered the department shall notify the city, and the department and the
city, or the city by itself in the case of a retail beer permit, shall refund
to the person so surrendering the license or permit a proportionate amount of
the fee paid for such license or permit as follows: if surrendered during the
first three (3) months of the period for which said license or permit was
issued the refund shall be three-fourths (3/4) of the amount of the fee; if
surrendered more than three (3) months but not more than six (6) months after
issuance the refund shall be one-half (1/2) of the amount of the fee; if
surrendered more than six (6) months but not more than nine (9) months after
issuance the refund shall be one-fourth (1/4) of the amount of the fee. No
refund shall be made, however, for a liquor control license or beer permit
surrendered more than nine (9) months after issuance. No refund shall be made
to any licensee or permittee, upon the surrender of his license or permit, if
there is at the time of said surrender a complaint filed with the department or
the city, charging him with a violation of this chapter or provisions of the
Iowa beer and liquor control act. If upon hearing on any such complaint the
license or permit is not revoked or suspended, then the licensee or permittee
shall be eligible, upon surrender of his license or permit, to receive a refund
as herein provided. But if his license or permit is revoked or suspended upon
such hearing he shall not be eligible for the refund of any portion of his
license or permit fee. No refund shall be made for seasonal licenses or
permits. (1975 Code)
3-2-17: TRANSFERS:
The city council will, in its discretion, authorize a licensee or permittee to
transfer the license or permit from one location to another within the city,
provided that the premises to which the transfer is to be made would have been
eligible for a license or permit in the first instance and such transfer will
not result in the violation of any law or ordinance. (1975 Code)
3-2-18: PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS 1 :
No person or club holding a liquor license or beer permit nor his agents or
employees shall do any of the following:
   A.   Sell, dispense or give to any intoxicated person, or one simulating
intoxication, any alcoholic liquor or beer.
   B.   Sell or dispense any alcoholic liquor or beer on the premises covered
by the license or permit, or permit the consumption thereon except during days
and hours permitted by state law.
   C.   Sell alcoholic liquor or beer to any person on credit, except with a
bona fide credit card. This provision shall not apply to sales by a club to its
members nor to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide registered guests.
   D.   Employ any person under the age of eighteen (18) years old in the sale
or serving of alcoholic liquor or beer for consumption on the premises where
sold.
   E.   Sell, give or otherwise supply any alcoholic beverage or beer to any
person knowing or having reasonable cause to believe him to be under legal age,
or permit any person knowing or having reasonable cause to believe him to be
under legal age, to consume any alcoholic beverage or beer.
   F.   In the case of a retail beer permittee, knowingly allow the mixing or
adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to beer or any other beverage in or
about his place of business.
   G.   Keep, or allow to be kept, gambling devices of any kind or description
on the premises or place of business of the license or permit holder, except to
the extent permitted under state law by persons holding valid gambling licenses
issued by the state. (1975 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 123.49.
3-2-19: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
A liquor license or beer permit may be suspended for a period up to one year,
or revoked for violations of law including city ordinances, following notice
and hearing, and shall be revoked in accordance with the provisions of state
law for any of the following causes:
   A.   Misrepresentation of any material fact in the application for such
license or permit.
   B.   Violation of any of the provisions of the Iowa beer and liquor control
act.
   C.   Any change in the ownership or interest in the business operated under
a class A, class B or class C liquor control license, or any beer permit which
change was not previously reported to and approved by the city and the
department.
   D.   An event which would have resulted in disqualification from receiving
such license or permit when originally issued.
   E.   Any sale, hypothecation or transfer of such license or permit.
   F.   The failure or refusal on the part of any licensee or permittee to
render any report or remit any taxes to the department under the state act.
(1975 Code)
3-2-20: EFFECT OF REVOCATION:
Any liquor control licensee or beer permittee whose license or permit is
revoked under the Iowa beer and liquor control act shall not thereafter be
permitted to hold a liquor control license or beer permit in the state of Iowa
for a period of two (2) years from the date of such revocation. Neither
business associates holding ten percent (10%) or more of the capital stock or
ownership interest in a business whose license or permit has been revoked nor
the spouse of a licensee or permittee whose license or permit has been revoked
shall be issued a liquor control license or beer permit, and no liquor control
license or beer permit shall be issued which covers any business in which such
person has a financial interest for a period of two (2) years from the date of
such revocation. In the event a license or permit is revoked the premises which
had been covered by such license or permit shall not be relicensed for one
year. (Ord. 24, 10-6-1930)
3-2-21: APPEAL AND HEARING:
The right of appeal to the hearing board shall be afforded a liquor control
licensee or beer permittee whose license or permit has been suspended or
revoked. Any applicant who feels aggrieved by a decision of the director or
city disapproving, suspending or revoking issuance of a liquor control license
or beer permit may, provided he has exercised his right of appeal to the
hearing board as provided by state law, appeal from said decision within ten
(10) days to the district court. The city may appeal a decision of the hearing
board within ten (10) days to the district court. (1975 Code)
3-2-22: CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES; INTOXICATION:
It is unlawful for any person to use or consume alcoholic liquors or beer upon
the public streets or highways, or alcoholic liquors in or on any public
property, except premises covered by a liquor control license, and no person
shall be intoxicated nor simulate intoxication in a public place. (1975 Code)
3-2-23: PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE 1 :
No person shall sell, give or otherwise supply alcoholic liquor or beer to any
person knowing or having reasonable cause to believe him to be under legal age,
and no person or persons under legal age shall individually or jointly have
alcoholic liquor or beer in his or their possession or control. (1975 Code;
amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 123.47.
3-2-24: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   The conviction of any liquor control licensee or beer permittee for a
violation of any of the provisions of subsections 3-2-18A to G inclusive of
this chapter shall, subject to subsection C of this section, be grounds for the
suspension or revocation of the license or permit by the department or the
city. However, if any liquor control licensee is convicted of any violation of
Iowa Code 123.49 2a, d or e, or any beer permittee is convicted of a violation
of chapter 123.49 2a or e, the liquor control license or beer permit shall be
revoked and shall immediately be surrendered by the holder and the bond of the
license or permit holder shall be forfeited to the department of beer and
liquor control. (1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   If any licensee, beer permittee, or employee of such licensee or
permittee shall be convicted of a violation of subsection
3-2-18E of this chapter, or if a retail beer permittee shall be convicted of a
violation of subsection
3-2-18F of this chapter, the city shall, in addition to the other penalties
fixed for such violations by this section, assess a penalty as follows:
      1.   Upon a first conviction, the violator's liquor control license or
beer permit shall be suspended for a period of fourteen (14) days.
      2.   Upon a second conviction within a period of two (2) years, the
violator's liquor control license or beer permit shall be suspended for a
period of thirty (30) days.
      3.   Upon a third conviction within a period of five (5) years, the
violator's liquor control license or beer permit shall be suspended for a
period of sixty (60) days.
      4.   Upon a fourth conviction within a period of five (5) years, the
violator's liquor control license or beer permit shall be revoked. (1975 Code)
CHAPTER 3
JUNK DEALERS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: License Prohibited
3-3-3: Power To Investigate, Inspect
3-3-4: Violation
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
JUNK: Old or secondhand vehicles, appliances, tires, electronics, machinery and
iron or other materials.
JUNK DEALER: Any person engaged in collecting, storing, buying or selling of
junk, including the activity known as "auto salvage". (Ord. 76, 7-9-1973; amd.
2004 Code)
3-3-2: LICENSE PROHIBITED:
Junk dealers and junkyards are prohibited within the city, and there shall be
no license granted to any junk dealer within the city limits. (Ord. 76, 7-9-
1973; amd. 2004 Code)
3-3-3: POWER TO INVESTIGATE, INSPECT:
The mayor, or any peace officer, city council member or health officer
designated by the mayor shall have the power to inspect and investigate the
purported conduct of any junk establishment, and such power shall include the
right to go upon the premises of such establishment at all reasonable times.
(Ord. 76, 7-9-1973; amd. 2004 Code)
3-3-4: VIOLATION:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a
penalty as provided for by section
1-4-1 of this code.
Upon the conviction of any person of a violation of any of the sections of this
chapter, the mayor of the city or any peace officer so requested by the mayor
shall immediately notify in writing said person so convicted to remove the junk
or junk materials or cars complained of and constituting the basis of said
conviction; and upon the failure of said person to remove the same within a
period of seven (7) days, the maintenance of such accumulation of junk shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense in the same manner as if no previous
conviction has been obtained. (Ord. 76, 7-9-1973)
TITLE 4
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
4-1-1: Title
4-1-2: Adoption Of State Building Code
4-1-3: Building Permits And Fees
4-1-4: Buildings On Or Near Market Street
4-1-5: Gasoline Pumps
4-1-6: Fences
4-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the STEAMBOAT ROCK, IOWA, BUILDING ORDINANCE and
may be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as The Building Code.
(1975 Code; amd. Ord. 21-1, 6-14-2021)
4-1-2: ADOPTION OF STATE BUILDING CODE 1 :
   A.   Pursuant to Iowa State Building Code is hereby adopted in full except
for such portions as may be hereinafter deleted, modified or amended. An
official copy of this chapter and of the aforementioned Iowa State Building
Code and standards is on file in the Office of The City Clerk.
   B.   One Call is required prior to putting anything in the ground (Dial
811). (1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 21-1, 6-14-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§ 103A.7, 380.10.
4-1-3: BUILDING PERMITS AND FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or
demolish a building or portion thereof, or to move a building from one location
to another, unless such person shall first have obtained a permit thereof from
The City, in compliance with the provisions of the Building Code. For the
purpose of this section, a building is any permanent or temporary structure
used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use or occupancy including
all garages, barns, sheds, fences, residential, commercial, educational,
institutional or industrial uses and any accessory structures thereto. Permit
is not required for equipment or personal items.
   B.   Materials: Siding, decks, windows or roofing replacement do not require
a permit. Building Permit Fees: Building permit fees shall be as follows:
 
Total Valuation          Fee
Up to $5,000.00          $10.00 (minimum)
$5,000.00 to $100,000.00 $2.00 per $1,000.00 or fraction thereof (maximum fee
                         $200.00)
 
   C.   Federal and State governments and subdivisions thereof shall be exempt
from the payment of these permit fees.
   D.   All homeowners are charged with the knowledge of their property line
and boundaries. The owner must submit with any building permit an accurate
description of the boundary lines for the property on which the improvement is
sought to be built, and an accurate drawing of where the proposed improvement
will be built within the boundaries of the individual's property. The City
shall have no responsibility or obligation to determine proper boundary lines
when reviewing any application. (1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 18-3, 11-12-
2018; Ord. 21-1, 6-14-2021)
4-1-4: BUILDINGS ON OR NEAR MARKET STREET:
   A.   Definition: The word "building", within the meaning of this section,
shall include any house, store, building, barn, stable, billboard, stand or any
other structure.
   B.   Erection Of Buildings: Any new buildings or rebuilding done on Lots 5,
6, 7 and 8, block 21; Lots 5, 6, 7 and 8, block 22; Lots 1, 2, 3 and 4, block
31; Lots 1, 2, 3, and 4, block 32 shall be done according to the following
specifications and regulations:
   C.   No building for the storage or repairing of cars shall have other than
noninflammable floors.
   D.   The side walls of any buildings shall be made of some noninflammable
material (i.e. steel studs, concrete block or 5/8 or greater drywall).
   E.   The roof covering any building shall be of some inflammable material.
(Ord. 22, 8-2-1926; amd. Ord. 21-1, 6-14-2021)
4-1-5: GASOLINE PUMPS:
No person shall install, use or maintain any pump or other appliance for the
distribution or sale of gasoline or other oil products within the limits of any
street or alley in the City except as hereinafter provided.
The restrictions of this section shall not apply to any such pump or appliance
in actual use and operation at the time of the taking effect of this section.
However, should any pump or appliance in use at the taking effect of this
section cease to be so used for a period of thirty (30) days, unless the
failure to use is occasioned by fire or the remodeling of a building in front
of which such pump or appliance is located and then only for a reasonable
length of time for the rebuilding or remodeling of such building, then and in
that event the right to use and operate such pump or appliance shall terminate.
(Ord. 26, 11-1930)
4-1-6: FENCES:
The following regulations and standards apply to all fences within the City:
   A.   Building Permit Required: Prior to construction of any fence, the owner
shall obtain a building permit from the City.
   B.   Materials And Maintenance:
      1.   Allowed Materials: Fences are to be constructed of customarily used
materials such as chainlink, welded wire mesh, wrought iron, aluminum, wood,
polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and other similar materials, unless otherwise
specified in this Code. Wood fences should be constructed of treated lumber,
cedar, redwood or similar types of wood that are resistant to decay.
Determination of material acceptability shall be made by the City. (2004 Code)
      2.   Prohibited Materials: A fence shall not be designed to cause pain or
injury to humans or animals. Therefore, the use of spikes, broken glass, barbed
wire, razor wire, nails, electrical charge or other similar materials shall be
prohibited. The use of such materials as corrugated or sheet metal, chicken
wire, woven wire, electric fence, temporary construction fencing, snow fencing
or similar materials shall not be permitted for permanent fencing unless
approved by the City Council. (2004 Code; amd. Ord. 18-3, 11-12-2018)
      3.   Construction And Maintenance: All fences shall be constructed in a
sound and sturdy manner and shall be maintained in a good state of repair,
including the replacement of defective parts, painting and other acts required
for maintenance. After ten (10) days' notice to the owner of the fence, the
Mayor may order the removal of any fence that is not maintained in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, and the cost thereof shall be assessed
against the property where said fence is located. An extension of time may be
granted upon the filing of a verified statement that the delay is not a result
of any act of the owner.
   C.   Fence Regulations:
      1.   Height Restrictions: Unless otherwise specified herein, fences not
exceeding six feet (6') in height are allowed within the limits of side and
rear yards. A fence, not exceeding four feet (4') in height, is allowed up to
the front property line provided the visual clearance at any intersection or on
any public way is maintained.
      2.   Decorative Features: Decorative features, such as individual posts,
trellises, brick or stone columns and similar features constructed as part of a
fence, shall be allowed to exceed the maximum fence height by no more than
twelve inches (12"). Pedestrian entry features which only include arbors,
arched entries, arcades or finials may exceed the maximum allowable fence
height in any yard subject to design review and approval by the City.
   D.   Corner And Double Frontage Lots: On corner lots and double frontage
lots, fences not more than six feet (6') in height may be placed in a required
front yard abutting a street where all the following are met:
      1.   The required front yard abutting the street is used as a side yard
and not as a front yard.
      2.   The fence maintains a minimum setback from the ultimate right-of-way
of fifteen feet (15').
      3.   The vision clearance area is maintained.
      4.   All other requirements of this section are met.
   E.   Temporary Fences: Temporary construction fences, barricades, railings
or other similar fences installed to provide temporary site security and/or
safety in conjunction with construction work may be allowed during periods of
construction. Such temporary fences shall be removed upon completion of the
construction work. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
GAS PIPING AND APPLIANCES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Code Adopted
4-2-2: Violations
4-2-3: Inspections
4-2-4: Liability
4-2-1: CODE ADOPTED:
From and after the effective date hereof, no gas piping or gas appliance shall
be installed in any building in the city except in strict accordance with
specifications set forth in the booklet entitled "Installation Of Gas Piping
And Gas Appliances", published by the National Fire Protection Association. The
text of said code is hereby adopted into as fully and completely as though set
out herein, as the minimum standard for such gas installations in the city.
(1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
4-2-2: VIOLATIONS:
Any person hereafter installing gas piping or gas appliances in any building in
the city and the owner or lessee of any such building suffering or permitting
such installation which shall not be in compliance with the specifications set
forth in the booklet described in section
4-2-1 of this chapter, shall be guilty, upon conviction thereof, of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by fine or imprisonment as provided by
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each such installation shall constitute a separate offense.
(1975 Code)
4-2-3: INSPECTIONS:
The city shall have the right, but not the duty, to inspect any installations
of gas pipings or gas appliances within the city to ascertain whether such
installations have been made in accordance with the standards herein
established. The mayor shall designate the person to make such inspections.
Such inspector may order any gas pipes or appliances to be disconnected, or
order that they not be connected, if he finds that the standards herein
established have been or are about to be violated. If the person so ordered
refuses to comply, the inspector may disconnect said piping or appliance
himself or with the aid of whomever he designates. Any person aggrieved by any
order or action of the inspector may file with the city clerk in writing a
request that the city council review the order or act of the inspector
complained of. Such request for review must be filed within thirty (30) days of
the order or act complained of. Upon the filing of a request for review, the
mayor shall fix a time and place for hearing thereon, which shall be not less
than three (3) nor more than ten (10) days after the request is filed. Written
notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be given to the person
requesting the review in the manner provided by the Iowa rules of civil
procedure for serving an original notice. Such notice must be given at least
forty eight (48) hours before the hearing. At the hearing the city council may
affirm, reverse or modify the order or act of the inspector complained of. Said
hearing may be continued for a reasonable time to permit further inspection.
The decision of the city council shall be final. (1975 Code)
4-2-4: LIABILITY:
The city, mayor, city council members and inspector shall not be civilly liable
for any acts or orders made or taken under this chapter in good faith. No
inspection nor lack of inspection of gas piping or appliances shall be the
basis for the imposition of civil liability upon the city, mayor, city council
members or inspector. (1975 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
4-3-1: Adoption Of National Electrical Code
4-3-2: Inspections
4-3-3: Liability
4-3-4: Violation
4-3-1: ADOPTION OF NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE:
All electrical wiring, installation of electrical fixtures, apparatus or
electrical appliances for furnishing light, heat or power, or other electrical
work introduced into or placed in or upon, or in any way connected to, any
building or structure within the limits of the city shall be in conformity with
the provisions set forth in the national electrical code. (1975 Code; amd. 2004
Code)
4-3-2: INSPECTIONS:
The city shall have the right, but not the duty, to inspect any electrical
installations within the city to ascertain whether such installations have been
made in accordance with the standards herein established. The mayor shall
designate the person to make such inspection. Such inspector may order any such
electrical installations to be disconnected, or order that they not be
connected, if he finds that the standards herein established have been or are
about to be violated. If the person so ordered refuses to comply, the inspector
may disconnect said electrical installations himself or with the aid of
whomever he designates. Any person aggrieved by any order or action of the
inspector may file with the city clerk in writing a request that the city
council review the order or act of the inspector complained of. Such request
for review must be filed within thirty (30) days of the order or act complained
of. Upon the filing of the request for review, the mayor shall fix a time and
place for hearing thereon, which shall be not less than three (3) nor more than
ten (10) days after the request is filed. Written notice of the time and place
of such hearing shall be given to the person requesting the review in the
manner provided by the Iowa rules of civil procedure for serving an original
notice. Such notice must be given at least forty eight (48) hours before the
hearing. At the hearing the city council may affirm, reverse or modify the
order or act of the inspector complained of. Said hearing may be continued for
a reasonable time to permit further inspection. The decision of the city
council shall be final. (1975 Code)
4-3-3: LIABILITY:
The city, the mayor, city council members and the inspector shall not be
civilly liable for any acts or orders made or taken under this chapter in good
faith. No inspection nor lack of inspection shall be the basis for the
imposition of civil liability upon the city, the mayor, city council members or
the inspector. (1975 Code)
4-3-4: VIOLATION:
When the city council shall ascertain that the wiring of any building is not
being, or has not been, properly done, it shall cause written notice thereof to
be served on the electric light company that the electric current shall not be
turned into said building until the provisions of this chapter shall have been
complied with.
(Ord. 67, 2-2-1970; amd. Ord. 103, 6-6-1988)
CHAPTER 4
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
4-4-1: Short Title
4-4-2: Purpose And Scope
4-4-3: Adoption Of Plumbing Code
4-4-4: Protection Of Water Supply System
4-4-5: Administration And Enforcement
4-4-6: Right Of Entry, City Council Order, Penalty
4-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the CITY PLUMBING ORDINANCE, and may be so
cited. (Ord. 58, 10-13-1964; amd. 1975 Code)
4-4-2: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to adopt a complete plumbing code, including
provisions for inspecting and regulating plumbing installation, and providing
penalties for violations of this chapter.
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to and govern plumbing, as defined
in the state plumbing code, including the practice, materials and fixtures used
in the installation, maintenance, extension and alteration of all piping,
fixtures, appliances and appurtenances in connection with any of the following:
sanitary drainage or storm drainage facilities, the venting system and the
public or private water supply systems within or adjacent to any building or
other structure, or conveyance; also the practice and materials used in the
installation, maintenance, extension or alteration of the stormwater, liquid
wastes or sewerage systems, and water supply systems of any premises to their
connection with any point of public disposal or other acceptable terminal.
(Ord. 58, 10-13-1964; amd. 1975 Code)
4-4-3: ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE:
The state plumbing code, as set forth in the rules of the Iowa department of
health and published in the Iowa departmental rules, is hereby adopted in full
except for such portions as hereinafter may be deleted, modified or amended.
All installations, repairs and alterations of plumbing shall be performed in
accordance with its provisions. (Ord. 58, 10-13-1964; amd. 1975 Code)
4-4-4: PROTECTION OF WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM:
The public works superintendent shall make and enforce such regulations
concerning the installation, repair or alteration of air conditioning systems,
water treatment equipment and water operated devices as he believes is
necessary to properly protect the water supply system of the city from anything
which might endanger the public health, safety or welfare. These regulations
are to implement the purposes of this chapter, and must not be inconsistent
with this chapter, or with state laws or regulations. (Ord. 58, 10-13-1964;
amd. 1975 Code)
4-4-5: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the public works superintendent to administer and
enforce the provisions of this chapter and to make any inspections or tests
directed by the mayor or city council. Such person or persons may be appointed
and authorized by the mayor as assistants or agents of the public works
superintendent as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 58, 10-13-1964; amd. 1975 Code)
4-4-6: RIGHT OF ENTRY, CITY COUNCIL ORDER, PENALTY:
The public works superintendent and his authorized representatives may enter
any premises on proof of authority for the purpose of inspecting any plumbing
system, at such times as may be reasonably necessary to protect the public
health, safety and welfare. Upon recommendation of the inspector, the city
council may order compliance with this chapter, specifying in its order the
time within which said compliance shall be. Violation of any such order shall
constitute a municipal infraction pursuant to the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 58, 10-13-1964; amd. 1975 Code; 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Purpose
4-5-2: Definitions
4-5-3: Location Of Mobile Homes
4-5-4: Penalty
4-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for municipal regulation of mobile
homes and mobile home parks in furtherance of the public health, safety, morals
and welfare. (1975 Code)
4-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
MOBILE HOME: Any vehicle without motive power used or so manufactured or
constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon the public streets
and highways and so designed, constructed or reconstructed as will permit the
vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or more persons; but
shall also include any such vehicle with motive power not registered as a motor
vehicle in Iowa.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any site, lot, field or tract of land upon which two (2) or
more occupied mobile homes are harbored, either free of charge or for revenue
purposes, and shall include any building, structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure
used or intended for use as part of the equipment of such mobile home park. The
term "mobile home park" shall not be construed to include mobile homes,
buildings, tents or other structures temporarily maintained by any individual,
educational institution or company on their own premises and used exclusively
to house their own labor or students. (1975 Code)
4-5-3: LOCATION OF MOBILE HOMES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park or place any mobile home on the
streets, alleys, highways or any public place or any private land within this
city.
(Ord. 108, 1-7-1991; amd. 2004 Code)
4-5-4: PENALTY:
Anyone violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a municipal infraction as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
(1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 6
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Enforcement Officer
4-6-2: General Definition Of Unsafe
4-6-3: Unsafe Building
4-6-4: Notice To Owner
4-6-5: Conduct Of Hearing
4-6-6: Posting Of Notice
4-6-7: Right To Demolish
4-6-8: Costs
4-6-1: ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
The Mayor or his designee is responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 02-03, 8-12-2002)
4-6-2: GENERAL DEFINITION OF UNSAFE 1 :
All buildings or structures which are structurally unsafe or not provided with
adequate egress, or which constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous
to human life, or which in relation to existing use constitute a hazard to
safety or health, or public welfare, by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, obsolescence or abandonment, as specified in this chapter or any
ordinance, are, for the purpose of this chapter, unsafe buildings. All such
unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated
by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal in accordance with the
procedure specified in this chapter. (Ord. 02-03, 8-12-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§ 657A.1, 364.12(3a).
4-6-3: UNSAFE BUILDING:
"Unsafe building" means any structure or mobile home meeting any or all of the
following criteria:
   A.   Collapse Of Member: Whenever any portion or member or appurtenance
thereof is likely to fail, or to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse
and thereby injure persons or damage property.
   B.   Wind Resistance: Whenever any portion of a building, or any member,
appurtenance or ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient
strength or stability, or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so
as to be capable of resisting a wind pressure of twenty (20) pounds per square
foot.
   C.   Material Deterioration: Whenever any portion thereof has cracked,
warped, buckled or settled to such an extent that walls or other structural
portions have materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is
required in the case of similar new construction.
   D.   Various Inadequacies: Whenever the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, because of: 1) dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; 2)
faulty construction; 3) the removal, movement or instability of any portion of
the ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building; 4) the
deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its foundation; or 5) any other cause, is
likely to partially or completely collapse.
   E.   Manifestly Unsafe: Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure,
or any portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is
being used.
   F.   Exterior Walls: Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical
structural members list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line
passing through the center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third
(1/3) of the base. (Ord. 02-03, 8-12-2002)
   G.   Deterioration: Whenever the building(s) or structure(s) shows thirty
three percent (33%) or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or
members, or fifty percent (50%) damage or deterioration as to become: 1) an
attractive nuisance to children; 2) a harbor for vagrants, criminals or immoral
persons; or 3) as to enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose of
committing unlawful or immoral acts. (Ord. 1-18, 9-10-2018)
   H.   Inadequate Maintenance: Whenever a building or structure, used or
intended to be used for dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, decay, damage, faulty construction, or arrangement, inadequate
light, air or sanitation facilities, or otherwise, is determined by any Health
Officer to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such condition that
it is likely to cause sickness or disease.
   I.   Fire Hazard: Whenever any building or structure, because of
obsolescence, dilapidation condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits,
lack of sufficient fire resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas
connections or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the fire
marshal or fire chief to be a fire hazard.
   J.   Public Nuisance: Whenever any building or structure is in such a
condition as to constitute a public nuisance known to the common law or in
equity jurisprudence.
   K.   Abandoned: Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
(6) months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public. (Ord. 02-03, 8-12-2002)
4-6-4: NOTICE TO OWNER:
The enforcement officer shall examine or cause to be examined every building or
structure or portion thereof reported as dangerous or damaged and, if such is
found to be an unsafe building as defined in this chapter, the enforcement
officer shall give to the owner of such building or structure written notice
stating the defects thereof. This notice may require the owner or person in
charge of the building or premises, within forty eight (48) hours or such
reasonable time as the circumstances require, to commence either the required
repairs or improvements or demolition and removal of the building or structure
or portions thereof, and all such work shall be completed within ninety (90)
days from date of notice, unless otherwise stipulated by the enforcement
officer. If necessary, such notice shall also require the building, structure
or portion thereof to be vacated forthwith and not reoccupied until the
required repairs and improvements are completed, inspected and approved by the
enforcement officer.
   A.   Notice Served: Such shall be served by ordinance or by sending by
certified mail to the owner of record, according to Iowa Code 364.12(3h). If
the owner is not found within the city limits such service may be made upon the
owner by registered mail. The designated period within which said owner or
person in charge is required to comply with the order of the enforcement
officer shall begin as of the date the owner receives such notice or the date
of publication of the ordinance.
   B.   Hearing: Such notice shall also advise the owner that he or she may
request a hearing before the city council on the notice by filing a written
request for hearing within the time provided in the notice. (Ord. 02-03, 8-12-
2002)
4-6-5: CONDUCT OF HEARING:
If requested, the city council shall conduct a hearing in accordance with the
following:
   A.   Notice: The owner shall be served with written notice specifying the
date, time and place of hearing.
   B.   Owner's Rights: At the hearing, the owner may appear and show cause why
the alleged nuisance shall not be abated.
   C.   Determination: The city council shall make and record finding of fact
and may issue such order as it deems appropriate. (Ord. 02-03, 8-12-2002)
4-6-6: POSTING OF NOTICE:
The enforcement officer shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such
building a notice to read: "DO NOT ENTER. UNSAFE TO OCCUPY. CITY OF STEAMBOAT
ROCK, IOWA". Such notice shall remain posted until the required repairs,
demolition or removal are completed. Such notice shall not be removed without
written permission of the enforcement officer and no person shall enter the
building except for the purpose of making the required repairs or of
demolishing the building. (Ord. 02-03, 8-12-2002)
4-6-7: RIGHT TO DEMOLISH:
In case the owner fails, neglects or refuses to comply with the notice to
repair, rehabilitate, or to demolish and remove the building or structure or
portion thereof, the city council may order the owner of the building
prosecuted as a violator of the provisions of this chapter and may order the
enforcement officer to proceed with the work specified in such notice. A
statement of the cost of such work shall be transmitted to the city council.
(Ord. 02-03, 8-12-2002)
4-6-8: COSTS:
Costs incurred under section
4-6-7 of this chapter shall be paid out of the city treasury. Such costs shall
be charged to the owner of the premises involved and levied as a special
assessment against the land on which the building or structure is located, and
shall be certified to the county treasurer for collection in the manner
provided for other taxes. (Ord. 02-03, 8-12-2002)
CHAPTER 7
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
4-7-1: Statutory Authority, Findings Of Fact And Purpose
4-7-2: General Provisions
4-7-3: Floodplain Management Standards
4-7-4: Administration
4-7-5: Nonconforming Uses
4-7-6: Penalties For Violation
4-7-7: Amendments
4-7-8: Definitions
4-7-1: STATUTORY AUTHORITY, FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Statutory Authority: The legislature of the state of Iowa has in
chapter 364, code of Iowa, as amended, delegated the power to cities to
exercise any power and perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and
preserve the rights, privileges and property of the city or of its residents,
and to preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort and
convenience of its residents.
   B.   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of the city of Steamboat Rock are subject to
periodic inundation which can result in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare of the community.
      2.   These flood losses, hazards, and related adverse effects are caused
by: a) the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood damages
which create hazardous conditions as a result of being inadequately elevated or
otherwise protected from flooding and b) the cumulative effect of obstructions
on the floodplain causing increases in flood heights and velocities.
   C.   Statement Of Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to protect and
preserve the rights, privileges and property of the city of Steamboat Rock and
its residents and to preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare,
and comfort and convenience of its residents by minimizing those flood losses
described in subsection B1 of this section with provisions designed to:
      1.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities.
      2.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction or substantial improvement.
      3.   Protect individuals from buying lands which may not be suited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard.
      4.   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance through the national flood insurance
program. (Ord. 12-5, 1-9-2012, eff. 6-1-2012)
4-7-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which Chapter Applies: The provisions of this chapter shall
apply to all areas having special flood hazards within the jurisdiction of the
city of Steamboat Rock. For the purpose of this chapter, the special flood
hazard areas are those areas designated as zone A on the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM) for Hardin County and incorporated areas, city of Steamboat Rock,
panels 19083C0190C and 0195C, dated June 19, 2012, which is hereby adopted and
made a part of this chapter.
   B.   Rules For Interpretation Of Flood Hazard Boundaries: The boundaries of
the special flood hazard areas shall be determined by scaling distances on the
official flood insurance rate map. When an interpretation is needed as to the
exact location of a boundary, the mayor shall make the necessary
interpretation. The city council shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by Steamboat Rock in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   C.   Compliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be used and no
structure shall be located, extended, converted or structurally altered without
full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations
which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   D.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: It is not intended by this chapter
to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provision of this chapter shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent with
this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   E.   Interpretation: In their interpretation and application, the provisions
of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes.
   F.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The standards required by this
chapter are considered reasonable for regulatory purposes. This chapter does
not imply that areas outside the designated special flood hazard areas will be
free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on
the part of the city of Steamboat Rock or any officer or employee thereof for
any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
   G.   Severability: If any section, clause, provision or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 12-5, 1-9-2012, eff. 6-1-2012)
4-7-3: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT STANDARDS:
All uses must be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and meet the
following applicable performance standards. Where 100-year flood data has not
been provided on the flood insurance rate map, the Iowa department of natural
resources shall be contacted to compute such data. The applicant will be
responsible for providing the department of natural resources with sufficient
technical information to make such determination.
   A.   Requirements: All development within the special flood hazard areas
shall:
      1.   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
      2.   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      3.   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant
to flood damage.
      4.   Obtain all other necessary permits from federal, state and local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Iowa department
of natural resources.
   B.   Residential Buildings: All new or substantially improved residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated a minimum
of one foot (1') above the 100-year flood level. Construction shall be upon
compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no lower than 1.0 foot above the
100-year flood level and extend at such elevation at least eighteen feet (18')
beyond the limits of any structure erected thereon.
   Alternate methods of elevating (such as piers) may be allowed subject to
favorable consideration by the city council, where existing topography, street
grades, or other factors preclude elevating by fill. In such cases, the methods
used must be adequate to support the structure as well as withstand the various
forces and hazards associated with flooding.
   All new residential structures shall be provided with a means of access
which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during the 100-year flood.
   C.   Nonresidential Buildings: All new or substantially improved
nonresidential buildings shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one foot (1') above the 100-year flood level, or together
with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be floodproofed to such a level.
   When floodproofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in the
state of Iowa shall certify that the floodproofing methods used are adequate to
withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces and
other factors associated with the 100-year flood; and that the structure, below
the 100-year flood level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water.
   A record of the certification indicating the specific elevation (in relation
to North American vertical datum 1988) to which any structures are floodproofed
shall be maintained by the administrator.
   D.   All New And Substantially Improved Structures:
      1.   Fully enclosed areas below the "lowest floor" (not including
basements) that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   Such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles, building access and
low damage potential storage.
      2.   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
      3.   New and substantially improved structures must be constructed with
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   E.   Factory Built Homes:
      1.   All factory built homes, including those placed in existing factory
built home parks or subdivisions shall be elevated on a permanent foundation
such that the lowest floor of the structure is a minimum of one foot (1') above
the 100-year flood level.
      2.   All factory built homes, including those placed in existing factory
built home parks or subdivisions shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not
limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors.
   F.   Utility And Sanitary Systems:
      1.   On site waste disposal and water supply systems shall be located or
designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the system
during flooding.
      2.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system as well as
the discharge of effluent into floodwaters. Wastewater treatment facilities
(other than on site systems) shall be provided with a level of flood protection
equal to or greater than one foot (1') above the 100-year flood elevation.
      3.   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system. Water supply
treatment facilities (other than on site systems) shall be provided with a
level of protection equal to or greater than one foot (1') above the 100-year
flood elevation.
      4.   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.
   G.   Hazardous Materials: Storage of materials and equipment that are
flammable, explosive or injurious to human, animal or plant life is prohibited
unless elevated a minimum of one foot (1') above the 100-year flood level.
Other material and equipment must either be similarly elevated or: 1) not be
subject to major flood damage and be anchored to prevent movement due to
floodwaters or 2) be readily removable from the area within the time available
after flood warning.
   H.   Structural Works: Flood control structural works such as levees,
floodwalls, etc., shall provide, at a minimum, protection from a 100-year flood
with a minimum of three feet (3') of design freeboard and shall provide for
adequate interior drainage. In addition, the department of natural resources
shall approve structural flood control works.
   I.   Watercourse Alterations: Watercourse alterations or relocations must be
designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion. In addition, the department of natural resources must
approve such alterations or relocations.
   J.   Subdivisions: Subdivisions (including factory built home parks and
subdivisions) shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
Development associated with subdivision proposals (including the installation
of public utilities) shall meet the applicable performance standards of this
chapter.
   Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide all lots
with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during the
100-year flood. Proposals for subdivisions greater than five (5) acres or fifty
(50) lots (whichever is less) shall include 100-year flood elevation data for
those areas located within the special flood hazard area.
   K.   Accessory Structures:
      1.   Detached garages, sheds, and similar structures accessory to a
residential use are exempt from the 100-year flood elevation requirements where
the following criteria are satisfied:
         a.   The structure shall not be used for human habitation.
         b.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential.
         c.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
         d.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation which
may result in damage to other structures.
         e.   The structure's service facilities such as electrical and heating
equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed to at least one foot (1') above the
100-year flood level.
      2.   Exemption from the 100-year flood elevation requirements for such a
structure may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance coverage of
the structure and its contents.
   L.   Recreational Vehicles:
      1.   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the requirements of subsection
E of this section regarding anchoring and elevation of factory built homes when
the following criteria are satisfied:
         a.   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for less
than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days, and
         b.   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
      2.   Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must
satisfy requirements of subsection E of this section regarding anchoring and
elevation of factory built homes.
   M.   Pipeline River And Stream Crossings: Pipeline river and stream
crossings shall be buried in the stream bed and banks, or otherwise
sufficiently protected to prevent rupture due to channel degradation and
meandering. (Ord. 12-5, 1-9-2012, eff. 6-1-2012)
4-7-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Appointment, Duties And Responsibilities Of Floodplain Administrator:
      1.   The mayor is hereby appointed to implement and administer the
provisions of this chapter and will herein be referred to as the administrator.
      2.   Duties of the administrator shall include, but not necessarily be
limited to, the following:
         a.   Review all floodplain development permit applications to assure
that the provisions of this chapter will be satisfied.
         b.   Review floodplain development applications to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from federal, state and local governmental
agencies including approval when required from the department of natural
resources for floodplain construction.
         c.   Record and maintain a record of the elevation (in relation to
North American vertical datum 1988) of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new or substantially improved structures in the special flood hazard area.
         d.   Record and maintain a record of the elevation (in relation to
North American vertical datum 1988) to which all new or substantially improved
structures have been floodproofed.
         e.   Notify adjacent communities/counties and the department of
natural resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a
watercourse and submit evidence of such notifications to the federal emergency
management agency.
         f.   Keep a record of all permits, appeals and such other transactions
and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this chapter.
   B.   Floodplain Development Permit:
      1.   Permit Required: A floodplain development permit issued by the
administrator shall be secured prior to any floodplain development (any manmade
change to improved and unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to,
buildings or other structures, mining, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations), including the placement of factory built homes.
      2.   Application For Permit: Application shall be made on forms furnished
by the administrator and shall include the following:
         a.   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is to be made.
         b.   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done
(i.e., lot, block, track, street address or similar description) that will
readily identify and locate the work to be done.
         c.   Indication of the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended.
         d.   Elevation of the 100-year flood.
         e.   Elevation (in relation to North American vertical datum 1988) of
the lowest floor (including basement) of buildings or of the level to which a
building is to be floodproofed.
         f.   For buildings being improved or rebuilt, the estimated cost of
improvements and market value of the building prior to the improvements.
         g.   Such other information as the administrator deems reasonably
necessary (e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of this chapter.
      3.   Action On Permit Application: The administrator shall, within a
reasonable time, make a determination as to whether the proposed floodplain
development meets the applicable standards of this chapter and shall approve or
disapprove the application. For disapprovals, the applicant shall be informed,
in writing, of the specific reasons therefor. The administrator shall not issue
permits for variances except as directed by the city council.
      4.   Construction And Use To Be As Provided In Application And Plans:
Floodplain development permits based on the basis of approved plans and
applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in
such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement or
construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   The applicant shall be required to submit certification by a professional
engineer or land surveyor, as appropriate, registered in the state of Iowa,
that the finished fill, building floor elevations, floodproofing, or other
flood protection measures were accomplished in compliance with the provisions
of this chapter, prior to the use or occupancy of any structure.
   C.   Variance:
      1.   Authorization: The city council may authorize upon request in
specific cases such variances from the terms of this chapter that will not be
contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary
hardship. Variances granted must meet the following applicable standards:
         a.   Variances shall only be granted upon: 1) a showing of good and
sufficient cause, 2) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and 3) a determination that
the granting of the variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or conflict with
existing local codes or ordinances.
         b.   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         c.   In cases where the variance involves a lower level of flood
protection for buildings than what is ordinarily required by this chapter, the
applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature of the administrator
that: 1) the issuance of a variance will result in increased premium rates for
flood insurance up to amounts as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one
hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage and 2) such construction
increases risks to life and property.
      2.   Factors Upon Which The Decision Of The Council Shall Be Based: In
passing upon applications for variances, the council shall consider all
relevant factors specified in other sections of this chapter and:
         a.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments.
         b.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other land or
downstream to the injury of others.
         c.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability
of these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions.
         d.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
         e.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the city.
         f.   The requirements of the facility for a floodplain location.
         g.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use.
         h.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development
and development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
         i.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for the area.
         j.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
         k.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwater expected at the site.
         l.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer,
gas, electrical and water systems), facilities, streets and bridges.
         m.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this
chapter.
      3.   Conditions Attached To Variances: Upon consideration of the factors
listed above, the council may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose of this chapter. Such
conditions may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
         a.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
         b.   Limitation of periods of use and operation.
         c.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
         d.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes,
levees, and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the
department of natural resources and are deemed the only practical alternative
to achieving the purpose of this chapter.
         e.   Floodproofing measures. (Ord. 12-5, 1-9-2012, eff. 6-1-2012)
4-7-5: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this chapter, but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter, may be continued subject to the following
conditions:
      1.   If such use is discontinued for six (6) consecutive months, any
future use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
      2.   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   B.   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred,
unless it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
This limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, building or safety codes or
regulations or the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the national
register of historic places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude
its continued designation. (Ord. 12-5, 1-9-2012, eff. 6-1-2012)
4-7-6: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION:
Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
the requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this
chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction
thereof be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned for
not more than thirty (30) days. Nothing herein contained prevents the city of
Steamboat Rock from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent
or remedy violation. (Ord. 12-5, 1-9-2012, eff. 6-1-2012)
4-7-7: AMENDMENTS:
The regulations and standards set forth in this chapter may from time to time
be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed. No amendment, supplement,
change, or modification shall be undertaken without prior approval of the
department of natural resources. (Ord. 12-5, 1-9-2012, eff. 6-1-2012)
4-7-8: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. (See definition of 100-Year Flood.)
BASEMENT: Any enclosed area of a building which has its floor or lowest level
below ground level (subgrade) on all sides. Also see definition of Lowest
Floor.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, building or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials. "Development" does not include "minor projects" or
"routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities" as defined in this
section. It also does not include gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling, grading.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: Any structure for which the "start of construction"
commenced before the effective date of the first floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community. May also be referred to as "existing
structure".
EXISTING FACTORY BUILT HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A factory built home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the factory built homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the community.
EXPANSION OF EXISTING FACTORY BUILT HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the factory built homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
FACTORY BUILT HOME: Any structure, designed for residential use which is wholly
or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed or assembled in manufacturing
facilities for installation or assembly and installation, on a building site.
For the purpose of this chapter factory built homes include mobile homes,
manufactured homes, and modular homes; and also include "recreational vehicles"
which are placed on a site for greater than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days and not fully licensed for and ready for highway use.
FACTORY BUILT HOME PARK: A parcel or contiguous parcels of land divided into
two (2) or more factory built home lots for sale or lease.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or rivers or
from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation floodwaters would reach at a particular site
during the occurrence of a specific flood. For instance, the 100-year flood
elevation is the elevation of floodwaters related to the occurrence of the 100-
year flood.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map prepared as part of (but
published separately from) the flood insurance study which delineates both the
flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOODPLAIN: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water as a result
of a flood.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: An overall program of corrective and preventive measures
for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use of floodplains,
including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control
works, floodproofing and floodplain management regulations.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures, including utility and sanitary
facilities, which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to such structures.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to carry and
discharge floodwaters or flood flows so that confinement of flood flows to the
floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood by more than one foot (1').
FLOODWAY FRINGE: Those portions of the floodplain, other than the floodway,
which can be filled, leveed, or otherwise obstructed without causing
substantially higher flood levels or flow velocities.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places,
maintained by the department of interior, or preliminarily determined by the
secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing of
the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of the interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by
either: 1) an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the
interior or 2) directly by the secretary of the interior in states without
approved programs.
LOWEST FLOOR: The floor of the lowest enclosed area in a building including a
basement except when all the following criteria are met:
   A.   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic pressure
during floods with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions of subsection
4-7-3D1 of this chapter, and
   B.   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, drywalled, etc.) and
used solely for low damage potential uses such as building access, parking or
storage, and
   C.   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater, furnace,
electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at least one
foot (1') above the 100-year flood level, and
   D.   The enclosed area is not a "basement" as defined in this section.
   In cases where the lowest enclosed area satisfies criteria in subsections A,
B, C, and D of this definition, the lowest floor is the floor of the next
highest enclosed area that does not satisfy the criteria above.
MINOR PROJECTS: Small development activities (except for filling, grading and
excavating) valued at less than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
NEW CONSTRUCTION (New Buildings, Factory Built Home Parks): Those structures or
development for which the start of construction commenced on or after the
effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the
community.
NEW FACTORY BUILT HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A factory built home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the factory built homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the community.
100-YEAR FLOOD: A flood, the magnitude of which has a one percent (1%) chance
of being equaled or exceeded in any given year or which, on the average, will
be equaled or exceeded at least once every one hundred (100) years.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE:
   A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
ROUTINE MAINTENANCE OF EXISTING BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES: Repairs necessary to
keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that do not trigger a
building permit, provided they are not associated with a general improvement of
the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such repairs include:
   A.   Normal maintenance of structures such as reroofing, replacing roofing
tiles and replacing siding;
   B.   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets,
countertops and similar finish work;
   C.   Basement sealing;
   D.   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken windowpanes;
   E.   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating or air
conditioning systems and repairing wells or septic systems.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA: The land within a community subject to the "100-year
flood". This land is identified as zone A on the community's flood insurance
rate map.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
development permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other
improvement, was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date.
         The actual start means either the first placement or permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as pouring of a slab or footings,
the installation of pile, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a factory built home on a foundation.
         Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
         For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means
the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of
the building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the building.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, factories, sheds, cabins,
factory built homes, storage tanks, and other similar uses.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any improvement to a structure which satisfies either
of the following criteria:
   A.   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure either: 1) before the "start of construction" of the improvement, or
2) if the structure has been "substantially damaged" and is being restored,
before the damage occurred.
   The term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a
structure to correct existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or
safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code
enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living
conditions. The term also does not include any alteration of a "historic
structure", provided the alteration will not preclude the structure's
designation as a "historic structure".
   B.   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a building by
twenty five percent (25%) or more. All additions constructed on or after the
effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the
community shall be added to any proposed addition in determining whether the
total increase in original floor space would exceed twenty five percent (25%).
VARIANCE: A grant of relief by a community from the terms of the floodplain
management regulations.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. (Ord. 12-5,
1-9-2012, eff. 6-1-2012)
CHAPTER 8
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
4-8-1: Title
4-8-2:    Purpose
4-8-3:    Interpretation
4-8-4:    Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
4-8-5:    Definitions
4-8-6:    General Maintenance Standards
4-8-7:    Maintenance of premises
4-8-8:    Building Maintenance
4-8-9:    Refuse
4-8-10: Re-siding And Reconstruction
4-8-11: Violations
4-8-12: Appeals To The Council
4-8-1: TITLE:
This chapter may be referred to as the Property Maintenance Code and is
referred to herein as "this Code". (Ord. 20-3, 713-2020)
4-8-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Code is to protect the public health, safety, welfare,
esthetics and property values, by establishing minimum standards to
maintenance, appearance, condition, and occupancy, and for essential utilities,
facilities, and other physical components and conditions to make residential
premises fit for human habitation, and to make nonresidential premises fit for
use according to the purpose for which they were developed; by fixing certain
responsibilities and duties upon the owners and managers; and distinct and
separate responsibilities and duties upon the occupants; by authorizing and
establishing procedures for inspection of premises, and enforcement of this
Code; establishing penalties for violations; and providing for proper repair,
demolition, or vacation for premises which do not comply with this Code. (Ord.
20-3, 713-2020)
4-8-3: INTERPRETATION:
The provisions of this Code shall be interpreted and applied as minimum
requirements and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any other power
granted by the Code of Iowa. Nothing in this Code shall be construed to
abrogate the Federal or State Constitutions, or to grant powers to the City
that are otherwise reserved by and for Federal and State Government. (Ord. 20-
3, 713-2020)
4-8-4: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
It is not the intent of this Code to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, or
interfere with any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions,
agreements, ordinances, rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or
issued pursuant to law. Where two or more provisions apply, the higher standard
shall prevail. (Ord. 20-3, 713- 2020)
4-8-5: DEFINITIONS:
Words used in this Code shall have the same meaning as those defined by the
Zoning Ordinance unless otherwise by this Code.
                        Means any building or portion of a building under
                        construction which has stood with an incomplete
ABANDONED BUILDING:     exterior shell for more than one (1) year, or any
                        completed building or portion thereof which has stood
                        unoccupied for longer than six (6) months, and which is
                        unsecured or has Building Code violations.
COUNCIL:                Means the City Council of Steamboat Rock, Iowa.
                        Means a state of conditions caused by a lack of
DETERIORATION:          maintenance or excessive use, characterized by holes,
                        breaks, rot, crumbling, peeling paint, rusting, or
                        other evidence of physical decay or neglect.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:    Means the Code Enforcement Officer.
                        Refers to any premises or any part thereof which may be
EXPOSED TO PUBLIC VIEW: lawfully viewed by the public or from adjoining
                        premises.
EXTERIOR:               Means yards and other open outdoor spaces on premises,
                        and the external surfaces of any structure.
EXTERMINATION:          Means the control and elimination of insects, rodents
                        and vermin.
                        Means a tract of land having an area of two or more
FARM:                   acres devoted by raising of crops or domestic
                        livestock.
                        Means the presence of insects, rodents, vermin, or
                        other pests on the premises to the extent that they
INFESTATION:            constitute a health hazard, are deemed by an
                        Enforcement Officer to be in threat of spreading to
                        adjoining premises or are exposed to public view.
                        Means old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other
                        non-ferrous metal; old or discarded rope, rags,
                        batteries, paper, trash, rubber, debris, waste or used
                        lumber, or salvaged wood; dismantled vehicles,
JUNK:                   machinery and appliances or parts of such vehicles,
                        machinery or appliances; iron, steel or other old or
                        scrap ferrous materials; old or discarded glass, tin
                        ware, plastic or old or discarded household goods or
                        hardware. Neatly stacked firewood located on a side
                        yard or a rear yard is not considered junk.
                        Means physical conditions that are dangerous or
                        detrimental to the health and safety of persons on or
NUISANCE:               near the premises where the conditions exist, or
                        anything that is injurious to the senses or interferes
                        with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
                        Means any person who alone, jointly or severally with
OWNER:                  others, holds legal or equitable title to any premises,
                        with or without accompanying actual possession thereof.
PREMISES:               Means a lot, plot, or parcel of land together with the
                        structures thereon.
                        Means any officer of any department or branch of the
PUBLIC AUTHORITY:       City, County, or State charged with regulating health,
                        fire, zoning or building regulations, or other
                        activities concerning property in the City.
                        Means any material that is not being used for the
                        original purpose for which it was created or
                        manufactured, or for its redesigned use, whether
                        putrescible or non-putrescible, combustible or non-
                        combustible, which is not securely stored in a building
                        or legal outdoor storage yard for prompt disposal or
                        resale, including but not limited to junk, paper or
                        cardboard, plastic, metals, glass, yard clippings,
REFUSE:                 leaves, woody vegetative trimmings, and other plant
                        wastes which have not been properly composted;
                        vegetable or animal waste resulting from the handling,
                        processing, storage, preparation, serving or
                        consumption of food, crockery, bedding, furniture, or
                        appliances; offal, rubbish, ashes or incinerator
                        residue, construction debris, accumulation of animal
                        feces, dead animals, or wastes from commercial or
                        industrial processes.
                        Means any person having possession, charge, care, or
                        control of real or personal property, whether with or
                        without the knowledge and consent of the owner,
                        including without limitation any one (1) or more of the
RESPONSIBLE PARTY:      following: owner, agent, property manager, contract
                        purchaser, mortgagee or vendee in possession, receiver,
                        executor, trustee, lessee or tenant, or any other
                        person, firm or corporation exercising apparent control
                        over a property.
                        Means any device designed to transport a person or
                        property by land, air, or water, such as automobiles,
VEHICLE:                trucks, travel trailers, mobile homes, trailers,
                        motorcycles, tractors, buggies, wagons, boats,
                        airplanes, or any combination thereof, except bicycles.
                        Means any vehicle that is not licensed for the current
                        year as required by law or which exhibits any of the
                        following characteristics: broken, damaged, or missing
                        windshield or other glass customary to the vehicle; a
                        missing fender, door, bumper, hood, wheel, steering
                        wheel, or exhaust system; lacking an engine or other
VEHICLE, INOPERABLE:    means of power suitable to the design, one (1) or more
                        wheels, or other structural parts which renders the
                        vehicle incapable of both forward and reverse movement
                        in the manner for which it was designed; has become a
                        habitant for rats, mice, snakes, or other vermin or
                        insects, or constitutes a threat to the public health
                        and safety because of its defective or obsolete
                        condition. (Ord. 20-3, 713-2020)
 
4-8-6: GENERAL MAINTENANCE STANDARDS:
The exterior of every premises and structure shall be maintained in reasonable
repair, to the end that the premises and each structure thereon will be
preserved; adjoining properties protected from blighting influences; and safety
and fire hazards eliminated. (Ord. 20-3, 713-2020)
4-8-7: MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES:
Each and every premise shall be kept free of all nuisances, health, safety, and
fire hazards, unsanitary conditions, and infestation. It shall be the duty of
the responsible party to keep the premises free of all said conditions and to
promptly remove and abate same, which include but are not limited to the
following declared nuisances:
   A.   Weeds or grasses allowed to grow to a height greater than six (6)
inches; or any accumulation of dead weeds or grass on any non-farm property
which is not within the jurisdiction of the County Weed Commissioner.
   B.   Accumulation of refuse not stored in suitable collection containers.
   C.   Any structure which is in such a dilapidated condition that it is unfit
for human habitation or the use for which it was constructed; kept in such an
unsanitary condition that it is a menace to the health of people residing
therein or in the vicinity thereof; any structure defined as abandoned or a
public nuisance by Chapter 657A, Code of Iowa.
   D.   Mud, dirt, gravel or other debris or matter, whether organic or
inorganic, deposited in a quantity judged by an Enforcement Officer to be a
threat to public safety or to cause pollution, obstruction or siltation of
drainage systems, or to violate solid waste disposal regulations.
   E.   Failure to establish a permanent cover of perennial grasses or
ornamental ground cover on any non-farm property as soon as practical after any
construction, and to thereafter maintain same in such condition as to
substantially bind the surface of the soil and prevent erosion, whether by
sheet or gullying, or by wind or water, provided, however that exception shall
be permitted for densely shaded areas, landscape beds, and gardens, provided
that vegetable gardens and agricultural crops shall not be placed in the front
yard of a non-farm property, unless it can be demonstrated that no other viable
location exists on the premises because of topography, natural vegetation, or
similar circumstances out of the resident's control.
   F.   Any nuisance as defined herein or described as such by Chapter 657 of
the Code of Iowa.
   G.   Conditions which are conducive to the harborage or breeding of vermin.
   H.   Facilities for the storage or processing of sewage, such as privies,
vaults, sewers, private drains, septic tanks, cesspools, and drain fields,
which have failed or do not function properly, as may be evidenced by overflow,
leakage, seepage, or emanation of odors, or which do not comply with the Hardin
County Department of Health regulations. Septic tanks, cisterns, and cesspools
which are no longer in use shall be removed or emptied and filled with clean
dirt or sand.
   I.   Fences or retaining walls that are not structurally sound or which are
deteriorating, as may be evidenced by leaning or loose elements.
   J.   Dead or diseased trees or other woody vegetation which may lead to the
spread of the disease to other specimens or pose a threat to safety or
buildings; major parts thereof, such as a limb, which may be dead or broken or
otherwise pose a threat of safety or buildings on adjoining premises; any
vegetation located on private property which overhangs and is less and fifteen
(15') feet above the traveled portion of any public street, or less than eight
(8') feet vertically, or which protrudes into any public sidewalk.
   K.   Loose, overhanging objects or accumulations of ice or snow, which by
reason of location above ground level constitute a danger of falling on persons
in the vicinity thereof.
   L.   Any inoperable vehicle which is exposed to public view, unless located
on the premises of a lawfully operated junk yard or undergoing repairs in an
expeditious manner at a vehicle repair business. (Ord. 20-3, 713-2020)
4-8-8: BUILDING MAINTENANCE:
Every building shall be maintained to be weather and watertight, and free from
excessively peeling paint (which shall equal fifty percent (50%) of the
exterior structure) or other conditions suggestive of deterioration or
inadequate maintenance. Exterior surfaces shall not have holes or broken glass;
loose, cracked, or damaged shingles or siding; or other defects in the exterior
finish which admit rain, cold air, dampness, rodents, insects, or vermin.
Basements, cellars, and crawl spaces shall be free of standing water and
hazards. All wood, including floorboards, subfloors, joists, bridging, roof
rafters and sheathing, and all other wood in any interior or exterior floor,
wall, roof, or other part of the structure, shall be maintained to be free of
cracks affecting structural integrity, termite damage, infestation, or rot. Any
and all damage or deteriorating materials shall be replaced. If infestation
exists in any basement, cellar, or crawl space, such infestation shall be
remedied in accordance with industry standards. (Ord. 20-3, 713-2020)
4-8-9: REFUSE:
Refuse shall be stored within a fully enclosed building or other location not
exposed to public view or shall be removed from the premises. All refuse shall
be contained in suitable collection containers; kept free from infestation; and
shall be removed weekly. (Ord. 20-3, 713-2020)
4-8-10: RE-SIDING AND RECONSTRUCTION:
Materials and practices used in reconstructions and re-siding shall be of
standard quality and appearance commensurate with the character of other
properties in the vicinity of the premises. Their appearance, as judged under
prevailing appraisal practices and standards, shall not depreciate the value of
the adjoining premises or the neighborhood. (Ord. 20-3, 713-2020)
4-8-11: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Enforcement: The creation or maintenance of a violation of this Code is
prohibited and shall constitute a civil infraction. Each day that a violation
is permitted to continue constitutes a separate offense.
      1.   All inspections, enforcement actions, and hearings on violations,
unless expressly states to the contrary, shall be under the direction and
supervision of an Enforcement Officer, who may appoint or designate other
public officers or employees to perform duties as may be necessary to enforce
this Code, including inspections and holding of hearings. The Enforcement
Officer is hereby authorized to abate such violations in accordance with the
procedures of this Code and to serve notices to abate same, whether upon the
owner or other responsible party for a premises upon which a violation is being
maintained, or upon the person or persons causing or maintaining a violation.
      2.   If a violation is found to exist on an owner-occupied premises and
the owner demonstrated that the cost of remedying such violation would exceed
the household's annual disposable income and thereby cause a financial
hardship, enforcement shall be held in temporary abeyance until a means of
financing or assistance can be identified.
      3.   The objective of this Code is the abatement and/or removal of
violations of this Code. Violations may be addressed by maintenance of an
administrative abatement process; the municipal infraction process; by court
proceeding; or by City abatement and assessment of cost therefor against the
responsible party or assessment of cost against the property, in the discretion
of the City. In determining whether to use the administrative abatement process
or court proceedings, consideration will be given to evidence of whether an
imminent health or safety hazard exists or whether the person has previously
been notified of or charged with violations of the same or other provisions of
the Code in the past.
      4.   It is further provided by this Code that if the City determines that
an emergency exists which creates a dangerous and imminent health or safety
hazard to persons, property or the general public which requires immediate
action, the City may order such action as may be necessary to meet the
emergency. Any orders issued pursuant to this paragraph shall be effective
immediately or in the time and manner prescribed in the order itself.
   B.   Enforcement of Weeds or Grasses Violations under Section
7-4-1 thru
7-4-4 of the Steamboat Rock Code of Ordinances: In the event the Enforcement
Officer chooses to utilize administrative abatement to address violations of
Section
7-4-1 of this Chapter, the said Enforcement Officer shall send a written notice
to abate via certified mail to the owner of the property wherein the violation
exists, which notice shall advise the owner of the said property that such
weeds or grasses shall be cut or destroyed within seven (7) days of the date of
the mailing of the notice. The owner may request a hearing before the Council
to contest the existence of the violation. The request for hearing shall be in
writing and shall identify the reasons why the owner contests the officer's
determination and shall be delivered to the City Clerk before the end of the
fifth (5th) day after mailing of the notice to the property owners. If no
request for hearing is filed, the officer may cut or destroy the weeds or
grasses or vegetation and may assess the costs thereof against the property
unless the cost is paid within thirty (30) days of the invoice date by the
owner. If a request for hearing is made, no action shall be taken to cut or
destroy the weeds or grasses, unless such weeds or grasses shall be located
within the sidewalk and the traveled portion of any street in the City, which
grasses or weeds may be cut immediately by the Enforcement Officer. Any hearing
so requested shall be held within three (3) days of the date of the request
therefor.
   C.   Notice to Abate - Contents: The notice to abate shall contain:
      1.   Description of Nuisance: The description of what constitutes a
nuisance.
      2.   Location of Nuisance: The location of the nuisance.
      3.   Acts Necessary to Abate: A statement of the act or acts necessary to
abate the nuisance.
      4.   Reasonable Time: A reasonable time within which to complete the
abatement.
      5.   Assessment of City Cost: A statement that if the nuisance or
condition is not abated as directed and no request for hearing is made within
the time prescribed, the City will abate it and assess the costs against such
property to be collected as taxes.
      6.   Request for Hearing: A statement that the responsible person may
request a hearing before the Council and the time within which the request must
be filed.
   D.   Notice: When service of a notice to abate is required, the following
methods of service shall be deemed adequate:
      1.   By certified mail upon the owner or other responsible party of the
property upon which the nuisance exists, or upon the persons causing or
maintaining the violation. In the event that the property is a leased premise,
one notice shall be directed to the owner of the property and a copy shall be
directed to the tenant on the property.
      2.   If service cannot be made under paragraph A of this subsection, any
two (2) of the following methods of service shall be considered adequate.
         a.   Personal service upon the owner or other responsible party.
         b.   Publication of notice once a week for two (2) consecutive weeks
in a newspaper of general circulation in the City.
         c.   By posting the notice in a conspicuous place on the property or
building deemed to be a nuisance.
   E.   Request for Hearing: Any person affected by any notice to abate a
violation of this Code may request a hearing on the matter before the Council,
provided that a written request for hearing is filed with the City Clerk within
five (5) days after the notice to abate was mailed. The appeal shall be filed
on a form provided by the City for that purpose and shall state the particular
section of the chapter or interpretation thereof being appealed, and a brief
statement of the grounds upon which the request for hearing is made. Failure to
file a timely request for hearing as prescribed herein shall constitute a
waiver of the right to a hearing, and the notice to abate shall become final.
The Council's determination an order shall be appealable to the Hardin County
District Court by writ of certiorari. Such request for hearing shall be filed
within twenty (20) days from the date of the Council's decision. The Council's
order shall not be carried out until the time for the filing of the writ of
certiorari has expired. The timelines herein shall not apply to the provisions
relating to weed or grass control under Section
4-8-7 of this chapter.
   F.   Abatement Remedies and Penalties: In the event that the violation is
not abated as ordered and within the time specified, the City may abate such
violation by any of the following means: (i) by undertaking such abatement and
assessing the costs therefor against the property; (ii) by issuance of a civil
citation charging the owner or responsible party with a municipal infraction.
Abatement may include but is not limited to repair, removal, cleaning,
extermination, cutting, mowing, grading, sewer repairs, draining, securing,
barricading or fencing, demolition of dangerous or abandoned structures or
portions thereof, and elimination of nuisances. Abatement costs may include the
cost of removing or eliminating the violation; the cost of investigation, such
as title searches, inspection, and testing; the cost of notification; filing
costs, and other related administrative costs. Inoperative or obsolete vehicles
which have been impounded may be sold in accordance with State Law. If a
municipal infraction is sustained, the Court may order any one or more of the
following:
      1.   Enter judgement against the person and/or property of defendant for
the costs of abatement.
      2.   Levy a civil penalty against the defendant of up to seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for the first offence and up to one thousand dollars
($1000.00) for repeat offences.
      3.   Order abatement of the violation in any manner.
      4.   Assess costs of abatement against the premises.
   G.   Emergency Abatement Procedure: If the Enforcement Officer determines
that a violation exists and constitutes an imminent, clear, and compelling
danger to health, safety or welfare of persons or property, the Enforcement
Officer is authorized to abate the violation, or have it abated without prior
notice and opportunity for hearing. The costs of such action may be assessed
against the premises. However, prior to such assessment, the City shall give a
property owner notice and opportunity for a hearing before the Council in
accordance with Section 4-8-11E. of this section. (Ord. 20-3, 713-2020)
4-8-12: APPEALS TO THE COUNCIL:
   A.   Authority: The Council is hereby empowered to hold hearings on appeals
from the regulations of this Code.
   B.   Procedure: Upon receipt of a timely filed appeal, the City Clerk shall
set a time and place for the Council to hear such appeal and shall notify the
appellant thereof. The hearing shall be open to the public and shall be
recorded either electronically or manually. All parties shall be afforded an
opportunity to respond and present evidence and argument. If the appellant
fails to appear at such hearing, the Council may proceed with the hearing and
make a decision in the absence of the appellant. The Council's finding shall be
based upon the kind of evidence on which reasonably prudent persons are
accustomed to relying for the conduct of their serious affairs, even if such
evidence would be inadmissible in a court of law. The Council's experience,
technical competence, and specialized knowledge may be utilized in the
evaluation of the evidence. The Mayor shall conduct the hearing.
   C.   Decision of the Council: No hearing shall be valid unless a majority of
the Council is present, and no appeal shall be granted unless reached by a
majority of all members of the Council. The Council shall render a decision
based upon the record, at the conclusion of the hearing, or within a reasonable
time thereafter. The Council may affirm, modify, or reverse any action,
interpretation, notice or order which has been issued in connection with the
enforcement of this Code. Following the decision of the Council, all parties
shall be notified of the decision personally or by general mail service
delivered to the address provided by the party. Any party, including the City,
may seek judicial review by filing a petition in the County District Court
within twenty (20) days after the issuance of the decision of the Council.
(Ord. 20-3, 713-2020)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Admission Fees, Fraudulently Avoiding Payment Of
5-1-2: Cruelty To Animals
5-1-3: Assault And Battery
5-1-4: Cigarettes Or Tobacco, Sale To Minors
5-1-5: Offenses Relating To Firearms And Weapons
5-1-6: Disorderly Conduct
5-1-7: Offenses Relating To Property
5-1-8: Gambling
5-1-9: Indecent Acts
5-1-10: Intoxication
5-1-11: Molesting Birds
5-1-12: Nuisances Declared
5-1-13: Offense, Aid To An
5-1-14: Offensive Substances
5-1-15: Petty Theft
5-1-16: Posting Bills
5-1-17: Resisting An Officer
5-1-18: Trespassing
5-1-19: Windowsills To Be Kept Clear
5-1-1: ADMISSION FEES, FRAUDULENTLY AVOIDING PAYMENT OF:
It shall be unlawful for any person fraudulently to enter, without payment of
the proper admission fee, any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert or other
place where admission fees are charged; provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of police
officers engaged in the performance of police duties to any place of public
entertainment or amusement. (1975 Code)
5-1-2: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cruelly mistreat any animal or to leave
the same standing upon the streets or in any vehicle parked on the streets of
the city. (1975 Code)
5-1-3: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
   A.   Assault: It shall be unlawful for any person to commit "assault", which
is hereby defined as any conduct which places another in reasonable
apprehension of receiving a battery.
   B.   Battery: It shall be unlawful for any person to commit a battery. A
person commits battery if he intentionally or knowingly with legal
justification and by any means causes bodily harm to an individual or makes
physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an individual. (1975
Code)
5-1-4: CIGARETTES OR TOBACCO, SALE TO MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or give away, directly or
indirectly, to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years any cigarettes,
tobacco or any compounds of tobacco used in filling up or making up of a
cigarette or to give or sell any cigarette papers to minors. (1975 Code)
5-1-5: OFFENSES RELATING TO FIREARMS AND WEAPONS:
   A.   Concealed Weapons: It shall be unlawful for any person to be found in
the city carrying concealed on his person any dangerous weapon or weapons,
unless such person has a valid permit therefor from the county sheriff.
   B.   Discharge Of Firearms: It shall be unlawful for any person to
unnecessarily discharge any firearms, explode any firecrackers or other
fireworks, or throw into any street or alley any squib or other article
containing powder or other explosive material provided, that the city council
may, by resolution, suspend the operation of the preceding provisions of this
section, in whole or in part, on July 4 or any other day of public rejoicing.
(Ord. 16, 9-5-1921)
   C.   Reckless Use Of Fire Or Explosives: No person shall so use fire or any
incendiary or explosive device or material as to recklessly endanger the
property or safety of another. (2004 Code)
5-1-6: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
No person shall do any of the following:
   A.   Fighting: Engage in fighting or violent behavior in any public place or
in or near any lawful assembly of persons, provided that participants in
athletic contests may engage in such conduct which is reasonably related to
that sport.
   B.   Noise:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to prevent excessive sound,
which is a serious hazard to the public health and the quality of life in the
City.
      2.   Definitions:
 
       Unwanted sound, undesired sound, or sound without value. Noise consists
NOISE: of any sound which may produce psychological or physiological effect on
       humans.
       An oscillation in pressure, particle displacement, particle velocity or
       other physical parameter, in a medium with internal forces that cause
SOUND: compression and rarefaction of that medium. The description of sound may
       include any characteristic of such sound including source/origin,
       duration, intensity, and frequency.
 
      3.   Measurement of Noise and Sound: Sound shall be measured at the edge
of the City street or alley right-of-way reasonably appearing to be the
property producing the source of the sound. When a complaint is received, a
measurement may also be taken at the location on the property where the
complaining party was disturbed.
      4.   Noise Disturbance Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to do or
cause any of the following described activities:
         a.   Use or operate a power lawn mower, power trimmer, or other
gasoline or electric-powered device intended for yard, house, or landscape
maintenance between the hours of nine o’clock (9:00) p.m. and seven o’clock (7:
00) a.m.
         b.   Use or operate a gasoline-powered lawn mower which does not have
a muffler.
         c.   Use or operate a gasoline-powered chain saw between the hours of
nine o’clock (9:00) p.m. and seven o'clock (7:00) a.m.
         d.   Use or operate, in residential districts, construction equipment
between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) p.m. and seven o'clock (7:00) a.m.
         e.   Operate in any City park between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00)
p.m. and seven o'clock (7:00) a.m. any sound equipment, including radios,
stereo systems, tape players, or musical instruments or devices.
         f.   Racing. The sound made by a motor vehicle or recreational vehicle
on private property or pubic right-of-way during any track, racing, or time
trial event, whether organized or unorganized, at all times.
         g.   Screeching Tires. The sound made by the intentional screeching or
squealing of the tires of a motor vehicle, at all times.
         h.   Persons operating farm equipment are exempt from the provisions
of this section.
         i.   No person shall cause or create, or permit the causing or
creating of, a noise disturbance that is plainly audible by any person:
            (1)   Either across a real property line or at a distance of one
hundred feet (100'); and
            (2)   For more than thirty (30) continuous seconds.
         j.   No person shall play or operate, or permit the playing or
operating of, a sound production device within a motorized vehicle that is
plainly audible by any person more than fifty feet (50') away.
         k.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or a recreational vehicle
whose exhaust system has been modified including but not limited to: by the
installation of a muffler cut-out or bypass to create excessive or unusual
noise at all times. Sound that is plainly audible by any person:
            (1)   Either across a real property line or at a distance of one
hundred feet (100') or more from the vehicle; and
            (2)   For more than thirty (30) continuous seconds.
         l.   No person shall cause the engine of any vehicle to cause emit any
loud noise in excess of normal operation at any location within the corporate
city limits.
         m.   The maximum allowable cumulative noise levels for motor vehicles
shall be eighty-eight (88) dB measured:
            (1)   Either across a real property line or at a distance of fifty
feet (50') or one hundred feet (100') or more from the vehicle; and
            (2)   For no more than thirty (30) continuous seconds above eighty-
eight (88) dB.
         n.   No person shall make or cause, permit, or allow to be made, upon
a public way, or in such close proximity to a public way as to be distinctly
and loudly audible upon such public way, any noise of any kind by crying,
calling, or shouting, or by means of any whistle, rattle, bell, hammer, drum,
horn, other musical instrument, wind instrument, mechanical devices, or other
similar device so as to destroy the peace of the neighborhood.
         o.   The keeping upon any property owned, occupied, or controlled by
any person, of any animals otherwise permitted to be kept which, by any sound
or cry, shall cause annoyance or discomfort to a reasonable person of normal
sensibilities.
         p.   The requirements, prohibitions, and terms of this chapter shall
not apply to emergency work or to any authorized emergency vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call or acting in time of emergency. The terms of
this section shall not apply to those activities of a temporary duration,
permitted by law including but not limited to parades, fireworks displays,
outdoor warning systems, nonprofessional athletic contests, all construction
work, and all other authorized activities occurring on government property.
         q.   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency shall be allowed. This is to include the public
address systems.
         r.   The emission of sound from activities where the state or Federal
agency has adopted a different standard or rules than that prescribed within
this chapter shall be allowed.
         s.   The emission of sound from on-site stationary trash compactors,
municipal or municipally contracted compacter trucks loading or unloading of
yard waste, recyclable material, trash, and garbage. shall be allowed between
the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) a.m. to nine o'clock (9:00) p.m.
         t.   These are exempt; The emission of sound during the operation,
maintenance, repair, and cleaning of public streets and facilities. Work
performed by or for public utilities. The emission of sound in the performance
of emergency work, including snow removal and maintenance of trees.
         u.   Emergency vehicles, such as firetrucks, police and ambulances are
exempt.
         v.   Essential services, such as work at electrical substations and
safety devices are exempt.
         w.   Construction and maintenance activities which are nonroutine
operations, temporary in nature, and conducted infrequently shall be exempt.
         x.   Parades, processions or other public events are exempt between
seven o'clock (7:00) a.m. and nine o'clock (9:00) p.m.
         y.   Car or truck horns or similar devices when used to denote danger
or a warning or possible danger are exempt.
         z.   Special permission may be granted by the City Council, to exceed
the noise and/or time limits outlined in this chapter for specific activities,
events, celebrations, and public gatherings. Any person who desires to use a
sound-producing device which would create a noise level higher than that
permitted by this ordinance must first apply for a permit from the City
Council. The City Council may issue such a permit if it is satisfied that the
use for which the permit is desired will not endanger the health, safety, and
comfort of the general public of the City.
      5.   In addition, the provisions of this section will be enforced only
upon receipt of a complaint made or filed with City officials. Certification by
an official charged with enforcement of provisions of this section that a noise
disturbance complaint was made shall be sufficient to establish the fact of the
complaint.
      6.   Sound Levels by Land Use: With the exception of sound levels
elsewhere specifically authorized or allowed in this chapter, the following are
maximum permissible sound levels allowed at or within the property boundary by
land use:
 
Category of Receiving Land Use Time of Day            Maximum Sound Level
Residential                    7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. 65dB
                               9:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. 55dB
Commercial and Industrial      7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. 85dB
                               9:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. 70dB
Park                           7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. 75dB
                               9:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. 55dB
 
      7.   If the volume of sound exceeds the maximum permissible sound level
exceeding a fifteen (15)-minute meter reading duration, the sound is prohibited
and declared unlawful in violation of this chapter.
      8.   It is recognized that it is not technically or economically feasible
for certain business operations and equipment to comply with the standards set
forth in this chapter as adopted on December 31, 2021. The City Council shall
therefore issue a variance permit for business operations and equipment in
existence on such date which produce excessive noise if it is found that it is
not technically or economically feasible to alter such operation to reduce
noise to within the prescribed standards set forth in this ordinance.
Application for such variances must be made to the City Clerk by the affected
party in a letter setting forth the reasons that such a variance should be
granted. After review of all the circumstances, and review of the degree of the
nuisance, The Mayor, with City Council approval, shall reply in writing, giving
the variance, denying the variance, or setting forth conditions and limitations
under which the variance will be granted. Variance permits granted under this
section shall be valid for a period of two (2) years from the date granted, and
may be renewed for a like period of time upon application and review.
   C.   Abusive Language: Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening
gesture which the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a
violation reaction by another.
   D.   Assemblies:
      1.   Disrupt Lawful: Without lawful authority or color of authority,
disturb any lawful assembly or meeting or persons by conduct intended to
disrupt the meeting or assembly.
      2.   Unlawful Assembly: For two (2) or more persons to assemble together
for the purpose of disturbing the place or for the purpose of committing an
unlawful act and not to disperse upon the command of an officer so to do.
   E.   False Reports Or Acts:
      1.   False Report Of Catastrophe: By words or action, initiate or
circulate a report or warning of fire, epidemic or other catastrophe, knowing
such report to be false or such warning to be baseless.
      2.   False Pretenses: To obtain any food, drink, goods, wares or
merchandise under false pretenses, or to enter any public place and call for
refreshments or other articles and receive and refuse to pay for same, or
depart without paying for or satisfying the person from whom he received the
food, goods, wares and merchandise.
      3.   False Representation: To represent falsely himself to be an officer
of the city or who shall attempt to impersonate any such officer or who shall,
without authority, perform any official act thereof on behalf of an officer.
      4.   Swindling: By color, or aid of any trick or sleight of hand
performance, or by fraud or by fraudulent scheme, cards, dice or device to win
for himself or for another any money or property or a representative of either.
   F.   Disrespect Of Flag: Knowingly and publicly using the flag of the United
States in such a manner as to show disrespect for the flag as a symbol of the
United States, with the intent or reasonable expectation that such use will
provoke or encourage another to commit a public offense.
   G.   Public Defecation And Urination: To urinate or defecate in or upon any
street, alley, sidewalk or other place open to the public view or public use,
provided that this subsection shall not apply to private restrooms or public
facilities designated for such purpose.
   H.   Bathing In River: To bathe, wash or swim when naked or insufficiently
clothed in the Iowa River within the limits of the city. (Ord. 16, 9-5-1921;
amd. 1975 Code; 2004 Code; Ord. 21-2, 12-13-2021)
5-1-7: OFFENSES RELATING TO PROPERTY:
   A.   Public Streets And Sidewalks:
      1.   Driving On Sidewalk: It shall be unlawful for any person to lead,
drive or ride, or to place any horse or any beast of burden, or drive or place
any automobile or other vehicle, on any sidewalk or to leave the same standing
on or across any sidewalk or any footway crossing any street in the city.
However, this section shall not be construed so as to prevent any person from
leading, driving or riding over any sidewalk of any lot or house owned by him
or his employer. (Ord. 16, 9-5-1921; amd. 1975 Code)
      2.   Injurious Material On Thoroughfares: It shall be unlawful for any
person to deposit, place or allow to remain in or upon any public thoroughfare
any material substance injurious to person or property.
      3.   Lug Wheels: It shall be unlawful for tractors with wheels injurious
to pavement to be permitted upon the public thoroughfares unless the operator
of such vehicle shall first plank such streets. (1975 Code)
      4.   Obstructing Streets: It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully
obstruct travel on any street or alley, or obstruct any walk on the streets by
placing animals, vehicles or other property or substances thereon, or in any
other manner, or to habitually leave any obstacle in the traveled portion of
any such street or alley.
   B.   Injure, Deface Property:
      1.   Cemetery Property: It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass
upon the city cemetery by destroying, injuring or defacing any grave, vault,
tombstone or monument, or any building, fence, tree, shrub, flower or anything
belonging to the cemetery.
      2.   Public Property: No person shall, without authority from the city,
deface, injure or destroy, or assist in so doing, any building, bridge,
sidewalk or any other property belonging to the city, nor hinder or obstruct or
interfere with the work of making or repairing any city improvement, or break,
extinguish or injure any street lamp or light, or the post or globe of any part
thereof; nor mark, cut, deface, tear down or destroy any advertisement, notice
or card posted by order of the city council or any officer of the city. (Ord.
16, 9-5-1921)
      3.   Private Property: It shall be unlawful for any person wilfully and
maliciously to injure, deface, mutilate, remove, pull down, break or in any
manner interfere with or molest or secrete or destroy any real or personal
property belonging to or under the control of any person.
   C.   Letting Premises For Unlawful Purposes: It shall be unlawful for any
person to rent, use or allow to be used any building or property owned by him,
for any purpose whereby riotous or disorderly persons are gathered. (1975 Code)
5-1-8: GAMBLING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deal, play or conduct either as owner,
employee or lessee, whether or not for hire, any game played with cards, dice
or any other device or money, checks, credit or other representative of value,
except as permitted by the laws of the state of Iowa. (1975 Code)
5-1-9: INDECENT ACTS:
   A.   Indecent Behavior: It shall be unlawful for any person to appear on the
streets, or publicly within the city, when naked or in any indecent or lewd
dress, or to be guilty of any indecent behavior or lewd act or conduct, or to
sell or give away or have in his possession with the intent to sell or give
away or exhibit or show to any person any obscene, lewd, indecent or lascivious
book, paper, pamphlet, picture or any indecent or immoral representations,
instrument or article, or any newspaper, pamphlet, magazine, story book or
paper or printing of paper made up of or devoted principally to news or
pictures or accounts of immoral deeds, lust, prostitution or debauchery, or to
exhibit or perform any immoral or lewd play or representation. (Ord. 16, 9-5-
1921)
   B.   Indecent Exposure: It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in a
state of nudity or in any indecent or lewd dress or condition in any public
place or in any such place to make any indecent exposure of his person or
private parts thereof or the private parts of another or to conduct himself in
a lewd or lascivious manner. (1975 Code)
5-1-10: INTOXICATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be in a public place within the limits
of the city in a state of intoxication. (Ord. 16, 9-5-1921; amd. 1975 Code)
5-1-11: MOLESTING BIRDS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot, or in any manner kill, injure or
molest any bird, or to rob any bird's nest within the limits of the city. The
city council, by resolution, is authorized to permit the killing of birds
within the city which are a nuisance. (Ord. 16, 9-5-1921; amd. 1975 Code)
5-1-12: NUISANCES DECLARED:
Anything which is injurious to the health or morals, or indecent or offensive
to the sense or an obstruction to the free use of property so as to interfere
with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is hereby declared a
nuisance and as such shall be abated. (1975 Code)
5-1-13: OFFENSE, AID TO AN:
It shall be unlawful for any person, in any way or manner, to aid, abet,
counsel, advise or encourage any other person in the commission of any of the
acts mentioned herein or in any manner encourage the commission of such offense
hereby defined. (1975 Code)
5-1-14: OFFENSIVE SUBSTANCES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place on any street, alley or
public ground, or any premises other than his own, or to wilfully permit or
place any premises of his own or under his control any material or substance
which shall emit offensive odors, or shall be offensive to sight, or to
wilfully drain cellars, cesspools or other places into any of the streets or
alleys, which will be dangerous or unhealthy.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to remain on
premises belonging to him under his control, any barnyard or other manure,
within fifty feet (50') of the inhabited dwelling place of any person within
the limits of the city. (Ord. 16, 9-5-1921)
5-1-15: PETTY THEFT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit "petty theft" which is hereby
defined as a theft when the property taken is of a value of less than two
hundred dollars ($200.00). (1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
5-1-16: POSTING BILLS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, post, paint, print or nail any
handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind on any curbstone,
flagstone or any other portion or part of any sidewalk, or upon any tree,
lamppost, hitchpost, telegraph pole or hydrant without permission from the city
council, or upon any private wall, door or gate, without the consent in writing
of the owner of the wall, door or gate; provided, however, that this section
shall not prevent posting by proper city and county officials of election
signs, polling place signs and other signs or placards necessary under the law
to the conduct of elections. (1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
5-1-17: RESISTING AN OFFICER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to unlawfully resist any peace officer in
the discharge of his duty within the city, or to wilfully refuse to assist a
peace officer in making an arrest when called upon to do so. (Ord. 16, 9-5-
1921)
5-1-18: TRESPASSING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to take down any fence or to let down any
bars or to open any gate in or on the property of another without the consent
of the owner, occupant or person in charge thereof. (1975 Code)
5-1-19: WINDOWSILLS TO BE KEPT CLEAR:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or keep on any window sill, porch
or other protection above the first story of any building abutting on any
sidewalk any article which might do injury by falling upon any person on the
sidewalk in front of such building, unless said article be securely fastened or
protected by screens. (1975 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2-1: Keeping Of Animals; Permit Required
5-2-2: Fencing
5-2-3: Sanitation
5-2-4: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
5-2-5: Impounding
5-2-6: Violation; Penalty
5-2-1: KEEPING OF ANIMALS; PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Keeping Of Certain Animals: It shall be unlawful to keep or maintain
any swine, goats, sheep, fowl, rabbits, cattle, horses, ponies and/or bees
within the city without first obtaining a permit from the city council. If the
applicant for such permit is not able to obtain the written consent of all the
owners and occupants of property within a radius of two hundred feet (200') of
the property where the animals or livestock are kept, the permit shall be
granted only upon the unanimous vote of all the city council members.
   B.   Term Of Permit; Cancellation: Permits granted under this chapter shall
expire one year from the date of city council approval, and renewal shall
require the same consent and vote of the city council. A permit may be
withdrawn upon order of the health authority for Hardin County for violation of
the requirements of section
5-2-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 93, 6-4-1979; amd. 2004 Code)
5-2-2: FENCING:
   A.   Required: All animals and livestock specified in section
5-2-1 of this chapter shall be kept on property properly fenced or penned.
   B.   Barbed Wire: It shall be unlawful to use barbed wire within the city
without the consent of the city council. The mayor, or an officer or employee
designated by him, is authorized to remove any barbed wire in violation of this
requirement if not authorized by the city council. However, any barbed wire in
place at the time of the adoption of this provision shall not be subject to
this subsection. (Ord. 93, 6-4-1979)
5-2-3: SANITATION:
The keeping of any swine, goats, sheep, fowl, rabbits, cattle or horses within
the city, except in pens with dry floors or pens free from all filth and
standing water, or the keeping of any of the aforesaid animals without shelter
in inclement weather, without proper feeding or otherwise in a careless or
cruel manner, is unlawful and any unsanitary condition may be declared a
nuisance and abated as provided by law or city ordinance. (Ord. 93, 6-4-1979)
5-2-4: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Animals At Large: It shall be unlawful to permit any cattle, horses,
mules, swine, sheep, goats, rabbits or any geese, ducks, turkeys or chickens to
run at large within the city, nor shall any animal be permitted to graze or be
staked or tied out to graze on the premises of any person not the owner of the
animal without the consent of such owner, or to be so staked out or tied so as
to allow such animal to graze on any street, alley or public ground in the
city.
   B.   Noisy Animals: It shall be unlawful to keep or harbor within the city
any chickens, ducks or other fowl which by their crowing, quacking or other
noises during the night or early morning hours disturb or annoy the residents
of the immediate neighborhood.
   C.   Cruelty To Animals: It shall be unlawful for any person to torture,
torment, deprive of sustenance, mutilate, overdrive, overload, drive when
overloaded, cruelly beat or cruelly kill any animal, or unnecessarily fail to
provide the same with proper food, drink, shelter or protection from the
weather, or drive or work any animal when unfit for labor, or cruelly abandon
it, or carry the animal or cause it to be cruelly carried on any vehicle or
otherwise commit any other act or omission by which unjustifiable pain,
distress, suffering or death is caused or permitted to any animal, whether the
acts or omissions herein contemplated be committed either maliciously, wilfully
or negligently. (Ord. 93, 6-4-1979)
5-2-5: IMPOUNDING:
The city is authorized to provide a pound in some suitable place approved by
the city council. Rules for the conduct of the pound, for redemption and the
fees to be charged shall be established by resolution of the city council.
(Ord. 93, 6-4-1979)
5-2-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is an infraction and shall
be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 93, 6-4-1979; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DOGS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: At Large Prohibited
5-3-3: Actions Of Dogs Constituting A Nuisance
5-3-4: Penalty
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
AT LARGE: Any licensed or unlicensed dog found off the premises of his owner
and not under the control of a competent person, restrained within a motor
vehicle, housed in a veterinary hospital or kennel, on a leash or at heel
beside a competent person and obedient to that person's command.
DOG: Both male and female animals of the canine species whether altered or not.
OWNER: Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning, keeping,
sheltering or harboring a dog. (Ord. 79, 5-6-1974)
5-3-2: AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
No owner of any dog shall permit such dog to run at large, whether the dog be
licensed or unlicensed. (Ord. 79, 5-6-1974)
5-3-3: ACTIONS OF DOGS CONSTITUTING A NUISANCE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any owner of a dog to allow or permit such dog
to pass upon the premises of another, to urinate or defecate, thereby causing
damage to, or interference with, the premises.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for an owner of a dog to allow or permit such dog
to cause serious annoyance or disturbance to any person or persons by frequent
and habitual howling, yelping, barking or otherwise; or by running after or
chasing persons, bicycles, automobiles or other vehicles. (Ord. 79, 5-6-1974;
amd. 2004 Code)
5-3-4: PENALTY:
Any owner violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a municipal infraction as provided for in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 79, 5-6-1974; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Intent
5-4-3: Places, Manner Of Operation
5-4-4: Careless Operation
5-4-5: Forbidden Areas
5-4-6: Equipment
5-4-7: Hours Of Operation
5-4-8: Allowable Areas Of Operation
5-4-9: Authorized Rallies, Gatherings
5-4-10: Driving Rules Applicable
5-4-11: Defense Of Permission
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
OPERATE: To ride in or on, other than as a passenger, use or control the
operation of a snowmobile in any manner, whether or not the vehicle is moving.
OPERATOR: Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
ROADWAY: That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
SNOWMOBILE: A motorized vehicle weighing less than one thousand (1,000) pounds
which utilizes sled type runners or skis, endless belt type tread, or any
combination of runners, skis or tread, and is designed for travel upon snow or
ice. (Ord. 69, 1972; amd. 2004 Code)
5-4-2: INTENT:
It is the intent of this chapter to supplement the laws of the state of Iowa 1
, with respect to the operation of certain motor vehicles commonly called
snowmobiles. This chapter is not intended to allow what the state statute
prohibits nor to prohibit what the state statute expressly allows. Where hand
signals are applicable to the operation of a snowmobile it shall be given in
all instances where operated on roads and highways. (Ord. 69, 1972)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 321G.1 et seq.
5-4-3: PLACES, MANNER OF OPERATION:
It shall be lawful to operate a snowmobile on the highways or streets of the
city, except it shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile as
follows:
   A.   On the private property of another without first securing the
permission of the owner of said property.
   B.   On publicly owned area and easements, including school, park property,
playgrounds, recreational areas and publicly owned golf courses, except where
permitted by this chapter.
   C.   In a manner so as to create a loud, unnecessary or unusual noise which
disturbs, annoys or interferes with the peace and quiet of other persons.
   D.   On a public sidewalk, or land designated for the use thereof.
   E.   To chase, run down, surround or otherwise harass any animal, bird or
fowl or to engage in any contest or concerted activity, whether alone or in the
company of others involving the chasing, running down, surrounding or otherwise
harassing of any animal, bird or fowl. (Ord. 69, 1972)
5-4-4: CARELESS OPERATION:
No person shall operate or halt any snowmobile carelessly or heedlessly in
disregard of the rights or safety of others or in a manner so as to endanger or
be likely to endanger any person or property, and no vehicle shall be operated
at a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and proper under the surrounding
circumstances. (Ord. 69, 1972)
5-4-5: FORBIDDEN AREAS:
No snowmobile shall be driven within one hundred feet (100') of any person
fishing, any skating rink or sliding area, or in any other area where the
operation would conflict with use or endanger other persons or property. (Ord.
69, 1972)
5-4-6: EQUIPMENT:
All snowmobiles shall have the following equipment:
   A.   Standard mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the
noise of operation of the vehicle to the minimum noise necessary for operating
the vehicle, and no person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device
on said vehicles.
   B.   Adequate brakes.
   C.   A safety or so called "dead man" throttle in operating condition; a
"safety or dead man throttle" is defined as a device which, when pressure is
removed from the accelerator or throttle, causes the motor to be disengaged
from the driving track. (Ord. 69, 1972)
5-4-7: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No snowmobile shall be operated after the hour of ten thirty o'clock (10:30)
P.M. nor prior to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. except snowmobiles may be operated
at other hours when the operator is on a direct route to or from an area
outside the city limits and from or to the operator's home or place where he
normally stores his snowmobile. (Ord. 69, 1972)
5-4-8: ALLOWABLE AREAS OF OPERATION:
The city council may by resolution, designate public areas that may be used by
the public for the operation of snowmobiles, in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter. (Ord. 69, 1972)
5-4-9: AUTHORIZED RALLIES, GATHERINGS:
The city council may, upon application to it, authorize the holding of
snowmobile rallies, meets, races and gatherings within the city. Such
application shall specify the dates, times and places of such rallies, meets,
races and gatherings, the person or persons sponsoring such event and a
description of the activity to be allowed and permitted. No fee shall be
charged for such authorization. The city council may grant such authority on
such terms and conditions as it may prescribe, including the waiving of any
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 69, 1972)
5-4-10: DRIVING RULES APPLICABLE:
The provisions of Iowa Code chapter 321G shall apply to the operation of
snowmobiles on streets and highways, except those relating to licensing and
required equipment, and those which by their nature have no application. No
person shall operate a snowmobile on streets and highways in violation of said
provisions. (Ord. 69, 1972)
5-4-11: DEFENSE OF PERMISSION:
It shall be a sufficient defense to a prosecution for violation of section
5-4-3 of this chapter that the defendant has permission from the owner or
lawful occupant of the land or of the public board, body or commission which is
authorized by law to hold and exercise dominion over such areas and easements.
(Ord. 69, 1972)
CHAPTER 5
ABANDONED, JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-5-1: Purpose
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: Removal, Impounding Of Operable Vehicles
5-5-4: Notice To Owner And Lienholders
5-5-5: Impoundment Fees
5-5-6: Auction Of Operable Vehicles
5-5-7: Inoperable Abandoned Vehicles
5-5-8: Junk Vehicles And Machinery A Nuisance
5-5-9: Notice To Abate
5-5-10: Duty Of Owner To Remove Or Repair
5-5-11: Abatement
5-5-12: Exceptions
5-5-13: Penalty
5-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens and safety of property of this city by providing for removal of
abandoned motor vehicles and the elimination of the open storage of abandoned
and junk motor vehicles and machinery except in places authorized. The city
council finds that unauthorized open storage of such vehicles and machinery
tends to become the habitat of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, provides a
breeding place for other vermin, mosquitos and other insects, encourages the
rank growth of weeds and other vegetation that cause problems of health and
pose a danger from fire, and such vehicles and machines attract children and
others hereby causing increased risk of injury from broken parts and glass.
This chapter provides for the enforcement against prohibited storage by
penalties for violations and defines certain cases as nuisances and provides
for their abatement. (1975 Code)
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following terms are defined:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: Any of the following:
   A.   A motor vehicle that has been left unattended on public property
(streets and public grounds) for more than forty eight (48) hours and lacks
current registration plates or two (2) or more wheels or other structural parts
which renders the vehicle totally inoperable; or
   B.   A motor vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for more
than fifteen (15) days; or
   C.   A motor vehicle that has been unlawfully parked on private property or
has been placed on private property without the consent of the owner or person
in control of the property for more than twenty four (24) hours; or
   D.   A motor vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of the mayor
or any police officer and has not been reclaimed for a period of thirty (30)
days.
JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE OR JUNK MACHINERY: Any motor vehicle or portion thereof not
in running condition and/or not licensed for the current year as provided by
law and not legally placed in storage with the treasurer of Hardin County, or
any other vehicle or machinery which, because of its defective or obsolete
condition, or rotted, rusted or loose parts, or in any other way constitutes a
threat to the public health or safety.
STORAGE: The leaving of any junk vehicle or junk machinery upon private
property for more than thirty (30) days. (1975 Code)
5-5-3: REMOVAL, IMPOUNDING OF OPERABLE VEHICLES:
If any abandoned motor vehicle is found upon the streets and highways, parking
lots or other public places and which has current registration plates and not
totally inoperable by reason of lack of two (2) or more wheels or other
structural parts, it may be removed under the direction of the mayor or any
peace officer and may be impounded. Any operable and abandoned vehicle
unlawfully parked or placed on private property without consent of the owner or
person in control of the property may likewise be removed and impounded.
Impoundment shall be in any city owned garage or area, or in any privately
owned public garage or area designated by the city council. (1975 Code)
5-5-4: NOTICE TO OWNER AND LIENHOLDERS:
The mayor or a peace officer shall determine and notify by personal service in
writing the last known registered owner of the abandoned but operable vehicle
and all lienholders of record in person within three (3) days, if possible, and
if said owner or lienholder does not exercise his right to reclaim said vehicle
within four (4) days of notice, or if personal service of notice is not
possible, the mayor shall notify, within ten (10) days of first taking up and
impounding, by certified mail, said last known owner and lienholders, that the
abandoned vehicle has been taken into custody. Notice shall be deemed given
when mailed. Notice shall describe the year, make, model and serial number of
the motor vehicle, set forth the location of the facility where it is being
held, inform the owner and any lienholders of their right to reclaim the motor
vehicle within fourteen (14) days after the effective date of the notice upon
payment of all towing, preservation and storage charges resulting from placing
the motor vehicle in custody. The notice shall also state that the failure of
the owner or lienholders to exercise their right to reclaim the motor vehicle
within the time provided shall be deemed a waiver by the owner and all
lienholders of all right, title, claim and interest in the motor vehicle and
that such failure to reclaim is deemed consent to the sale of the motor vehicle
at a public auction or disposal of the motor vehicle to a demolisher. If the
owner and lienholders do not exercise their right, they shall have no further
right, title, claim or interest in or to such motor vehicle as provided by law.
   A.   If the identity of the last registered owner of an abandoned but
operable vehicle cannot be determined, or if the registration contains no
address for the owner, or if it is impossible to determine with reasonable
certainty the identity and addresses of all lienholders, notice by one
publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the city shall be made
by the mayor or a peace officer and multiple listings may be included in said
notice if they are subject to the same time limits, and the same information as
prescribed for mailed notice shall be included.
   B.   The owner or any lienholder may, by written request delivered to the
mayor or peace officer giving the aforesaid notice prior to the expiration of
the fourteen (14) day reclaiming period, obtain an additional fourteen (14)
days within which the motor vehicle may be reclaimed. (1975 Code)
5-5-5: IMPOUNDMENT FEES:
The owner or lienholder shall pay all towing and storage charges rendered by a
public service before the vehicle is released. (1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
5-5-6: AUCTION OF OPERABLE VEHICLES:
If an abandoned motor vehicle which is operable has not been reclaimed as
provided by section
5-5-4 of this chapter, the mayor shall make a determination as to whether or
not the motor vehicle should be sold for use upon the highways. If it is to be
sold for such use it shall first be inspected as required law, have a valid
certification of inspection affixed, and shall then be sold, and title given in
accordance with law. Vehicles not sold for use upon the highways shall be sold
only in accordance with the restrictions in the state law. The purchaser shall
take title as provided for by law, or if sold to a demolisher no further
titling of the motor vehicle shall be permitted. Proceeds from any sales shall
apply to the cost of towing, preserving, storing and notification required, in
accordance with state law, and any balance shall be disposed of as required by
law. Where the sale of any vehicle fails to realize the amount necessary to
meet costs, the mayor shall apply for reimbursement from the state as provided
by law. (1975 Code)
5-5-7: INOPERABLE ABANDONED VEHICLES:
Any totally inoperable "abandoned vehicle", as defined in section
5-5-2 of this chapter, or any such inoperable vehicle left on private property
by other than the owner or person in charge of the private property shall be
disposed of by the mayor or a peace officer to a demolisher unless he deems
practicable to sell it as provided in section
5-5-6 of this chapter. A sale to a demolisher shall not require the
notification procedures or public auction, but the mayor or a peace officer
shall endeavor to obtain as much compensation as possible to defray any costs
to the city. A person, firm, corporation or this city or other unit of
government upon whose property or in whose possession is found any abandoned
motor vehicle, or any person being the owner of a motor vehicle whose title
certificate is faulty, lost or destroyed may, without notification procedures,
dispose of such motor vehicle if it lacks an engine, or two (2) or more wheels,
or other structural part which renders the vehicle totally inoperable, to a
demolisher for junk without the title. (1975 Code)
5-5-8: JUNK VEHICLES AND MACHINERY A NUISANCE:
It is hereby declared that storage within the corporate limits of a junk motor
vehicle or junk machinery upon private property owned or controlled by the
owner of the vehicle or machinery, unless excepted by section
5-5-12 of this chapter, constitutes a threat to the health and safety of the
citizens and is a nuisance within the meaning of Iowa Code 657.1, if any junk
motor vehicle or machinery is stored upon private property in violation hereof,
the owner of said motor vehicle (who is the owner or person in control of the
property upon which it is stored) shall be prima facie liable for said
violation. (1975 Code)
5-5-9: NOTICE TO ABATE:
Upon discovery of any junk motor vehicle or junk machinery stored upon private
property within the corporate limits of this city in violation of section
5-5-8 of this chapter, the mayor or a peace officer shall within ten (10) days
notify in writing the owner of said motor vehicle (who is the owner or person
in control of the property upon which it is stored) that: a) the motor vehicle
constitutes a nuisance under the provisions of this chapter; b) that the owner
must remove or repair the motor vehicle or machinery in accordance with the
terms of section
5-5-10 of this chapter; and c) that failure to remove or repair the motor
vehicle or machinery will be sufficient cause for its removal by the city at
the owner's cost. (1975 Code)
5-5-10: DUTY OF OWNER TO REMOVE OR REPAIR:
The owner of a junk motor vehicle or junk machinery (who is the owner or person
in control of the property upon which it is stored) which violates the
provisions of section
5-5-8 of this chapter must within ten (10) days after receipt of written notice
from the mayor or a peace officer remove the motor vehicle or machinery to an
auto salvage yard or junkyard duly licensed by this city, or to a lawful place
of storage without the city limits, or repair the defects which cause such
motor vehicle or machinery to violate the provisions of this chapter, including
licensing if a motor vehicle is not currently licensed. (1975 Code)
5-5-11: ABATEMENT:
If such owner of a junk motor vehicle or machinery shall fail to remove or
repair the motor vehicle in accordance with the terms of section
5-5-10 of this chapter, the mayor or any other delegated police officer, shall
abate such nuisance by causing the motor vehicle to be removed and impounded
and sold or disposed of as specified in section
5-5-5,
5-5-6 or
5-5-7 of this chapter and the cost of abatement shall be charged to the owner
of the motor vehicle (and owner or person in control of the property upon which
it is stored). (1975 Code)
5-5-12: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to a junk motor vehicle or junk
machinery stored within a garage or other enclosed structure. (1975 Code; amd.
2004 Code)
5-5-13: PENALTY:
Anyone failing to remove or repair any junk motor vehicle or machinery stored
on private property in violation of section
5-5-10 of this chapter, shall be deemed guilty of a municipal infraction as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 6
TREES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definitions
5-6-2: Parking Area Planting
5-6-3: Removal Of Trees Infected With Dutch Elm Disease
5-6-4: Obstruction Of Enforcement
5-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
CORNER LOT: A lot situated at the junction of two (2) or more streets.
PARKING AREA: The area between the established street and sidewalk or on the
public right of way. (1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
5-6-2: PARKING AREA PLANTING:
There will be no trees planted on or within any parking area within the city.
(1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
5-6-3: REMOVAL OF TREES INFECTED WITH DUTCH ELM DISEASE:
In accordance with Iowa Code 357.2 #12, any owner, occupant or person in charge
of any property shall remove at his own expense any tree, brush, wood or debris
infected with Dutch elm disease found thereon when so notified by the city
clerk. Such owner, occupant or such person shall be given written notice by the
city clerk to remove said tree, brush, wood or debris within thirty (30) days
from date of such written nonce. If such owner, occupant or person fails to
comply with said notice within thirty (30) days of receipt thereof, the city
council, upon notice and hearing, may cause the same to be removed and the cost
assessed against the property. (1975 Code)
5-6-4: OBSTRUCTION OF ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, obstruct or otherwise interfere
with the agents or employees of the city while engaged in carrying out the
provisions of section 5-6-3 of this chapter upon order of the city council made
thereunder. (1975 Code)
CHAPTER 7
MINORS
SECTION:
5-7-1: Curfew
5-7-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to regulate, by the
establishment of the curfew, the hours minors can be or remain upon the alleys,
streets, other public places, and places of business and amusement in this
city.
   B.   Definitions: For use in this section, the following terms are defined:
      HABITUALLY VIOLATES: Any minor who has been taken into custody under the
provisions of this chapter more than two (2) times during a twelve (12) month
period.
      MINOR: Any unemancipated person below the age of eighteen (18) years.
   C.   Time Limits: It is unlawful for any minor to be or remain upon any of
the alleys, streets or public places of business and amusement in this city
between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.,
official time, Sunday evenings through Friday mornings, and between the hours
of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M., official time,
Saturday and Sunday mornings. (Ord., 1982)
   D.   Exceptions: The restrictions provided herein shall not apply to any
minor who is accompanied by a parent, guardian or other person charged with the
care and custody of such minor, nor shall the restriction apply to any minor
who is traveling between his home or place of residence and any approved place
of employment, or where a church, municipal or school function is being held,
or unless said minor is upon an emergency errand, or where the presence of the
minor in the place or places is connected with and required by some legitimate
business, trade, profession or occupation in which the minor is permitted by
law to be engaged or unless the parent, guardian or other adult person
responsible for or having the legal care, custody and control of said minor
reports to the police that said minor is in violation of this section without
permission. Such report shall be made not later than two (2) hours after the
responsible adult becomes aware that the minor is in violation of this section.
(2004 Code)
   E.   Penalties: Any peace officer of the city is hereby empowered to take
any minor who violates any of the provisions of subsections C and D of this
section into custody. Upon taking the minor into custody, the peace officer
shall notify the parents, guardian or custodian of the minor as soon as
possible. If a minor habitually violates the provisions of subsections C and D
of this section, the chief of police shall notify the county attorney of Hardin
County, Iowa, of the violations. (Ord., 1982)
CHAPTER 8
SEX OFFENDERS
SECTION:
5-8-1: Purpose
5-8-2: Definitions
5-8-3: Residency Restricted
5-8-4: Exceptions
5-8-5: Municipal Infraction
5-8-6: Severability Clause
5-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the safety and well being of all
citizens of Steamboat Rock, Iowa, by prohibiting sex offenders and sexual
predators from residing within two thousand feet (2,000') of a place of
worship, public park, public playground, public library or school bus stop
within the city of Steamboat Rock. (Ord. 06-04, 6-5-2006)
5-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following shall be defined as follows:
PLACES OF WORSHIP: A building or structure primarily used for sectarian
instruction, study, or as a place for devotional activities or religious
worship, or any property which is used or to be used primarily in connection
with any part of the program of a school or department of divinity for any
religious denomination or the training of ministers, priests, rabbis, or other
professional persons in the field of religion.
PUBLIC LIBRARY: A room or building in the city of Steamboat Rock designated as
a public library, where a collection of books, periodicals, musical scores and
similar materials are kept for reading or reference.
PUBLIC PARK: Any areas of land owned by the city of Steamboat Rock, Iowa, or
any other governmental entity set apart for the recreation of the public.
PUBLIC PLAYGROUND: Any area of land owned by the city of Steamboat Rock, Iowa,
or any other governmental entity used for outdoor games and recreation.
SCHOOL BUS STOP: A site designated and approved by the local school board for
the purpose of loading and unloading school children.
SEX OFFENDER: A person who has been convicted of a criminal offense against a
minor, or an aggravated offense, sexually violent offense, or other relevant
offense that involved a minor as set forth in chapter 692A of the code of Iowa.
(Ord. 06-04, 6-5-2006)
5-8-3: RESIDENCY RESTRICTED:
A sex offender shall not reside or loiter within two thousand feet (2,000') of
the real property comprising a place of worship, public park, public
playground, public library, or a school bus stop. (Ord. 06-04, 6-5-2006)
5-8-4: EXCEPTIONS:
A sex offender residing within two thousand feet (2,000') of the real property
comprising a place of worship, public park, public playground, public library
or school bus stop does not commit a violation of this chapter if any of the
following apply:
   A.   The sex offender is subject to an order of commitment under chapter
229A of the code of Iowa.
   B.   The sex offender is a minor or a ward under guardianship. (Ord. 06-04,
6-5-2006)
5-8-5: MUNICIPAL INFRACTION:
A sex offender who resides within two thousand feet (2,000') of the real
property comprising a place of worship, public park, public playground, public
library, or school bus stop commits a municipal infraction subject to penalty
as set in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 06-04, 6-5-2006)
5-8-6: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, provision or part of this chapter shall be adjudged invalid or
unconstitutional, such adjudication shall not affect the validity of this
chapter as a whole or any section, provision or part thereof not adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional. (Ord. 06-04, 6-5-2006)
TITLE 6
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definitions
6-1-2: Nuisance Declared
6-1-3: Penalty And Remedies
6-1-4: Notice Of Abatement
6-1-5: Request For Hearing And Appeal
6-1-6: Abatement Procedures
6-1-7: Costs Of Abatement
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The term "nuisance" means whatever is injurious to health, indecent or
offensive to the senses, or an obstacle to the free use of property so as to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property. The following are
declared to be nuisances:
   A.   All items specified in Iowa Code 657.2.
   B.   Any items which are commonly considered to be junk and which are not
stored in a tight building, including, but not limited to, machinery which is
not suitable for use without repair, wire not presently being used, glass not
presently being used, items being kept for resale, wood (unless intended for
heating purposes and neatly stacked), containers not currently being used,
parts of machinery and any other items which are unsightly or offensive. (Ord.,
10-5-1987; amd. 2004 Code)
6-1-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
The creation or maintenance of a nuisance by an occupant and the permitting of
a nuisance by the property owner is prohibited. (Ord., 10-5-1987)
6-1-3: PENALTY AND REMEDIES:
   A.   Cumulative: The penalty and remedies set out in this section are
cumulative. The city, at its option, may employ any one or all of the penalty
and remedies prescribed. (Ord., 10-5-1987)
   B.   Municipal Infraction: The violation of this chapter is a municipal
infraction, punished as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a
nuisance is maintained is a separate offense. (Ord., 10-5-1987; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Injunction: The violation of this chapter may be enjoined and ordered
abated by the Iowa district court for Hardin County. (Ord., 10-5-1987)
6-1-4: NOTICE OF ABATEMENT:
   A.   Abatement: Whenever a nuisance exists, the mayor may cause to be served
on the property owner and other occupant, if any, a written notice to abate the
nuisance within a reasonable time after the notice.
   B.   Contents Of Notice To Abate: The notice to abate shall contain:
      1.   A description of what constitutes the nuisance or other condition.
      2.   The location of the nuisance or condition.
      3.   A statement of the act or acts necessary to abate the nuisance or
condition.
      4.   A reasonable time within which to complete the abatement.
      5.   A statement that if the nuisance or condition is not abated as
directed and no request for hearing is made within the time prescribed, the
city will abate it and assess the costs against such person.
   C.   Method Of Service: The notice may be served as an original notice or
sent by certified mail to the property owner and other occupant, if any. (Ord.,
10-5-1987)
6-1-5: REQUEST FOR HEARING AND APPEAL:
Any person ordered to abate a nuisance or condition may have a hearing with the
mayor as to whether a nuisance or prohibited condition exists. A request for a
hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the mayor or city clerk within
the time stated in the notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that a
nuisance or prohibited condition exists and it must be abated as ordered.
At the conclusion of the hearing, the mayor shall render a written decision as
to whether a nuisance or prohibited condition exists. If he finds that a
nuisance or prohibited condition exists, he must order it abated within an
additional time which must be reasonable under the circumstances. An appeal
from this decision may be had by immediately filing a written notice with the
mayor. This appeal will be heard before the city council at a time and place
fixed by the city council. The findings of the city council shall be conclusive
and, if a nuisance or prohibited condition is found to exist, it shall be
ordered abated within a time reasonable under the circumstances. (Ord., 10-5-
1987)
6-1-6: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   By City: If the person notified to abate a nuisance or condition
neglects or fails to abate as directed, the city may perform the required
action to abate, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred. The
itemized expense account shall be filed with the city clerk who shall pay such
expenses on behalf of the city.
   B.   Emergency Abatement: If it is determined that an emergency exists by
reason of the continuing maintenance of the nuisance or condition, the city may
perform any action which may be required under this chapter without prior
notice. The city shall assess the costs as provided in this section, after
notice to the property owner under the applicable provision of sections 6-1-
4 and 6-1-5 of this chapter and hearing as provided in subsection A of this
section. (Ord., 10-5-1987)
6-1-7: COSTS OF ABATEMENT:
The city clerk shall mail a statement of the total expense incurred to the
property owner who has failed to abide by the notice to abate, and if the
amount shown by the statement has not been paid within one month, the city
clerk shall certify the costs to the county auditor and it shall then be
collected with, and in the same manner, as general property taxes. (Ord., 10-5-
1987)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE, REFUSE
SECTION:
6-2-1: Purpose
6-2-2: Definitions
6-2-3: Duty To Provide Containers
6-2-4: Accumulation And Deposit
6-2-5: Storage Of Garbage And Tagging
6-2-6: Collection
6-2-7: Optional Means Of Collection
6-2-8: Necessity Of Permit
6-2-9: Refuse Other Than Garbage
6-2-10: Open Burning
6-2-11: Charges
6-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to eliminate unhealthy, unsanitary and unsightly
conditions in the city caused by the deposit and accumulation of refuse. (Ord.
70, 2-7-1972)
6-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For use within this chapter the following items are defined:
CONTAINER: A container for the storage of garbage or rubbish which is: a)
provided with a handle and a tight fitting cover; b) watertight; c)
substantially made of galvanized iron or other nonrusting material; and d) of a
size that may be conveniently handled by the collector.
GARBAGE: Includes all animal, fruit, vegetable and other refuse resulting from
the preparation of food and drink.
REFUSE: Includes all garbage, rubbish, ashes or other substances offensive to
sight or smell, dangerous to the public health, or detrimental to the best
interests of the community, except dead animals not killed for food.
RUBBISH: Includes all other refuse not falling within the term "garbage" except
those objects too large to be placed in containers. (Ord. 70, 2-7-1972; amd.
2004 Code)
6-2-3: DUTY TO PROVIDE CONTAINERS:
Each person shall provide containers for the storage of garbage and rubbish
accumulating on premises owned or occupied by him. Such containers shall be
kept covered and reasonably clean at all times. They shall be placed in a
position readily accessible to the collector, outside of dwellings, but not in
alleys or streets. (Ord. 70, 2-7-1972)
6-2-4: ACCUMULATION AND DEPOSIT:
No person shall permit refuse to accumulate upon premises owned or occupied by
him unless in containers. Nor shall he deposit waste materials upon any other
premises unless in containers. (Ord. 70, 2-7-1972)
6-2-5: STORAGE OF GARBAGE AND TAGGING:
All garbage and rubbish must be drained. Every person owning, managing,
operating, leasing or renting any premises, dwelling unit, or any place where
refuse accumulates, shall:
   A.   Container Requirements: Provide, and at all times maintain, in good
order and repair, portable containers for refuse in accordance with the
following:
      1.   Residential: Residential waste containers, whether they be reusable,
portable containers or heavy duty disposable garbage bags, shall be of
sufficient capacity, and leakproof and waterproof. Disposable containers shall
be securely fashioned, and reusable containers shall be fitted with flytight
lid which shall be kept in place except when depositing or removing the
contents of the container. Reusable containers shall be lightweight and of
sturdy construction and have suitable lifting devices.
      2.   Commercial: Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing or
renting any commercial premises where an excessive amount of refuse accumulates
and where its storage in portable containers as required above is
impracticable, shall maintain metal bulk storage containers approved by the
city.
   B.   Bag And Tag Requirements: Unless commercial bulk removal of accumulated
garbage is utilized, each premises, dwelling unit or place where refuse
accumulates, shall be allowed two (2) disposable garbage bags per week. Each
bag may not exceed fifty (50) pounds in weight. Any premises, dwelling unit or
place where refuse accumulates which exceeds this bag limitation shall obtain
from the city a bag tag. The fee for garbage bag tags shall be set by city
council resolution. Revenues from garbage bag tags shall be retained by the
city of Steamboat Rock. (Ord. 02-01, 1-7-2002, eff. 4-7-2002)
6-2-6: COLLECTION:
All garbage and rubbish within the city limits must be taken from residential
dwellings and business properties at least once a week unless unavoidable
circumstances prevent it. Properties whose buildings are used strictly for the
storage of the property owner's personal property, and which generate no
garbage or rubbish may be exempted from garbage collection and garbage
collection fees with prior approval of the Steamboat Rock city council. All
such garbage and rubbish shall be collected by the city under one of the
methods provided in section 6-2-7 of this chapter, and no person shall haul his
own garbage or rubbish to a dump or other disposal site. All garbage and
rubbish must be transported in a covered vehicle or covered containers
constructed to prevent spilling, draining, offensive odors, or loss of
materials during transit. (Ord. 07-02, 3-5-2007)
6-2-7: OPTIONAL MEANS OF COLLECTION:
It is optional whether the city:
   A.   Collects garbage and rubbish with its own equipment and employees; or
   B.   Makes a contract with a person to collect garbage; or
   C.   Issues permits to a person or persons to collect garbage and rubbish.
The city council shall elect by resolution the method or methods to be used in
the collection of garbage and rubbish, which may be changed from time to time.
If the city council elects to permit the collection of garbage and rubbish
other than by contract, it may issue permits to applicants upon the payment of
a one hundred dollar ($100.00) permit fee. Each permit shall expire one year
from the date of issuance. The city council may, by resolution, establish
regulations necessary to protect the public health which each permit holder
must obey. Upon the holder's failure to comply with the rules established or
the provisions of this chapter, the city council may revoke the permit. (Ord.
70, 2-7-1972)
6-2-8: NECESSITY OF PERMIT:
No person shall collect garbage or rubbish unless authorized by contract with
the city or by permit issued by the city. (Ord. 70, 2-7-1972)
6-2-9: REFUSE OTHER THAN GARBAGE:
Each person shall dispose of all refuse, other than garbage or rubbish,
accumulating on premises he owns or occupies, before it becomes a nuisance. If
it does become a nuisance, it shall be dealt with as provided in the code of
Iowa or provisions of this code. (Ord. 70, 2-7-1972)
6-2-10: OPEN BURNING:
   A.   Open burning of garbage or other matter which would cause noxious odors
or which would not be wholly consumed in the burning process is declared to be
illegal within the city limits.
   B.   Open burning may be conducted any day between the hours of ten o'clock
(10:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. with the following restrictions:
      1.   If the smoke from burning yard waste interferes with any of your
neighbors you must cease burning immediately.
      2.   You may not burn green yard waste which will cause excessive smoke
and smolders rather than burns.
      3.   You may not burn during a temperature inversion which holds the
smoke on the ground.
      4.   You may not burn when the wind speed is over five (5) miles per
hour.
      5.   You may not burn when the smoke drifts at ground level.
   C.   Backyard campfires are not limited to the hours stated in subsection B
of this section; however, all other restrictions still apply.
   D.   Any disputes will be arbitrated and settled by the mayor. The mayor's
decision is final. (Ord. 06-01, 9-11-2006)
6-2-11: CHARGES:
If the city council elects to collect garbage and rubbish under the methods
provided by subsection 6-2-7A or B of this chapter, charges for such service
shall be established by resolution of the city council and shall be billed
either monthly or quarterly by the city and payable to the city. Billings shall
be to occupants of the premises, but both owners and occupants shall be liable
therefor. Any delinquent bill may be certified to the auditor of Hardin County
as a lien against property involved for collection in the same manner as
special assessments against said property. If the city council elects to
collect garbage and rubbish under the method provided by subsection 6-2-7C of
this chapter, billings for collection service shall be made by the permit
holder or holders, but the maximum charges may be prescribed by the city
council by resolution.
(Ord. 70, 2-7-1972; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 22-02, 3-14-2022)
CHAPTER 3
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Use Of Public Sewers
6-3-3: Private Sewage Disposal
6-3-4: Building Sewers And Connections
6-3-5: Prohibited Discharges
6-3-6: Protection From Damage
6-3-7: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
6-3-8: Rates, Charges
6-3-9: Bills
6-3-10: Service Charge
6-3-11: Designated Officials
6-3-12: Charges A Lien
6-3-13: Revenue Fund
6-3-14: Records
6-3-15: Penalties
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
BOD (Denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') (1.5 m) outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
CITY: The City of Steamboat Rock, Iowa.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes,
trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body
of surface or ground water.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow condition normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 cm) in any
dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface, and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and stormwaters as may be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of
sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SHALL; MAY: Shall is mandatory; may is permissive.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration
of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of
duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average
twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
STORM DRAIN (STORM SEWER): A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and
drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted
cooling water.
SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of public works and/or of water pollution
control of the city, or his authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 93, 7-2-1979)
6-3-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable wastes.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley or right of way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is
hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within thirty (30) days after
date of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within one
hundred feet (100') of the property line. (Ord. 93, 7-2-1979; amd. 2004 Code)
6-3-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of subsection
6-3-2C of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
superintendent 1 . The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
   C.   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
superintendent. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within seventy
two (72) hours of the receipt of notice by the superintendent.
   D.   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the department of environmental
quality of the state of Iowa. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage
disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area
of the lot is less than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet. No
septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   E.   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in subsection D of this
section, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   F.   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   G.   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the health officer.
   H.   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within thirty (30) days and the private sewage disposal
system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bankrun gravel or dirt.
(Ord. 93, 7-2-1979)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 1-9-4 of this code.
6-3-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the superintendent.
   B.   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits: 1) for
residential and commercial service; and 2) for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the superintendent. A permit and
inspection fee of five dollars ($5.00) for residential or commercial building
sewer permit and twenty five dollars ($25.00) for an industrial building sewer
permit shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
   C.   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   D.   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   E.   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   F.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of
the city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and WPCF manual of practice no. 9 shall apply.
   G.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   H.   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff
or ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   I.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF manual of practice no. 9.
All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight Any deviation from
the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the superintendent
before installation.
   J.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
superintendent or his representative.
   K.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city. (Ord. 93,
7-2-1979)
6-3-5: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   B.   Stormwater and all other polluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the superintendent. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the superintendent,
to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   C.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter (2 mg/l) as CN in the wastes
as discharged to the public sewer.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than five and five tenths
(5.5), or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feather, tar, plastics, wood,
unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and
paper dishes, cups, mild containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage
grinders.
      5.   Any waters or wastes having: a) a five (5) day BOD greater than
three hundred thirty (330) parts per million by weight; or b) containing more
than four hundred thirty (430) parts per million by weight of suspended solids;
or c) having an average daily flow greater than two percent (2%) of the average
sewage flow of the city, shall be subject to the review of the superintendent
where necessary in the opinion of the superintendent, the owner shall provide,
at his expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to: a) reduce
the biochemical oxygen demand to three hundred thirty (330) parts per million,
by weight; or b) reduce the suspended solids to four hundred thirty (430) parts
per million by weight; or c) control the quantities and rates of discharge of
such waters or wastes. Plans, specifications and any other pertinent
information relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be
submitted for the approval of the superintendent and no construction of such
facilities shall be commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
   D.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, water or wastes, if it appears likely in the
opinion of the superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
      2.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) and one hundred fifty degrees
Fahrenheit (150°F) (0°C and 65°C).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the superintendent.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the superintendent for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the superintendent as necessary after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal or other agencies of
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      8.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of nine and five-tenths
(9.5).
      9.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium sulfate).
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
slugs, as defined herein.
      10.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   E.   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection D of this section, and which in
the judgment of the superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the
sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the superintendent
may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
subsection J of this section.
   If the superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   F.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the superintendent and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   G.   Where preliminary treatment of flow equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his expense.
   H.   When required by the superintendent, the owner of any property serviced
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and
shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   I.   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of
Water And Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by the customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24 hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24 hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
   J.   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern. (Ord. 93, 7-2-1979)
6-3-6: PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct. (Ord. 93, 7-2-1979)
6-3-7: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
superintendent or his representatives shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   B.   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in subsection A of this section, the superintendent or duly authorized
employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or
death to the city employees and the city shall indemnify the company against
loss or damage to its property by city employees and against liability claims
and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company
and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be
caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as
required by subsection
6-3-5H of this chapter.
   C.   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 93, 7-2-1979)
6-3-8: RATES, CHARGES:
Sewer rates shall be as follows:
 
First 2,000 gallons or part thereof   $60.00 per 2,000 gallons (minimum monthly
                                      bill)
Next 1,000 gallons each month         $3.00 per 1,000 gallons
Beginning July 1, 2022, the base rate $60.00 per 2,000 gallons, annual increase
will be                               of $4.00
 
The billing periods for the sanitary sewer utility shall be monthly.
In no case shall the minimum service charge be less than sixty dollars ($60.00)
per billing period, which is necessary to retire the indebtedness, to pay
operating, maintenance and replacement, and to fund reserves necessary for
maintaining the sanitary sewer facility.
All gallonage classifications in the above rate schedule include a constant
rate of three dollars ($3.00) per one thousand (1,000) gallons for operation,
maintenance and replacement costs.
Service to industrial establishments may be by contract if the City deems this
to be in its best interest. (Ord. 1-15, 6-1-2015; amd. Ord. 18-4, 3-11-2019;
Ord. 22-02, 3-14-2022)
6-3-9: BILLS:
Bills for the rates and charges are herein established and shall be sent for
each billing period. All bills shall be payable on the first day of the month
following the period of service and shall be paid at the office of the utility.
If any charge for the services of the system shall not be paid by the tenth of
the month in which it shall become due and payable, a charge of ten percent
(10%) of the amount of the bill shall be added thereto and collected therewith.
If any bills remain unpaid thirty (30) days following the due date, the water
supply for the lot, parcel of land or premises affected may, after a notice and
hearing, be cut off and may not be restored except upon satisfactory payment of
the delinquent charges. (Ord. 93, 7-2-1979)
6-3-10: SERVICE CHARGE:
The service charges for sanitary sewer service to customers not being supplied
water by the Municipal water system will be due and payable on the first day of
each month. (Ord. 93, 7-2-1979)
6-3-11: DESIGNATED OFFICIALS:
It is hereby made the duty of the City official designated by the City Council
to render bills for sewer service and all other charges in connection therewith
and to collect all monies due therefrom. The City will notify each user at
least annually in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion
of the user charges which are attributable to operation, maintenance, and
replacement costs of the treatment works. (Ord. 93, 7-2-1979)
6-3-12: CHARGES A LIEN:
All sewer charges levied pursuant to this chapter shall constitute a lien upon
the premises served and if not paid within sixty (60) days after due date, the
charges shall be certified to the County Auditor and shall be collectible in
the same manner as taxes. (Ord. 93, 7-2-1979)
6-3-13: REVENUE FUND:
All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the sewer system shall be
paid to and held by the City separate and apart from all other funds of the
City and all of said sums and all other funds and monies incident to the
operation of said system, as may be delivered to the City, shall be deposited
in a separate fund designated the Revenue Fund and the City Council shall
administer said fund in every respect in the manner provided by the Iowa Code
and all other laws pertaining thereto. (Ord. 93, 7-2-1979)
6-3-14: RECORDS:
The City shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall keep proper
records, books and accounts in which complete and correct entries shall be made
of all transactions relative to the sewer system and at regular annual
intervals the City Council shall cause to be made an audit by an independent
auditing concern or the State of Iowa, of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewer system. The City shall be required annually to
prepare a budget of the sanitary sewer system to show the required revenues and
expenses. If necessary, user charge rates will be adjusted to produce adequate
income to retire the indebtedness, meet operation, maintenance and replacement
needs, and required reserves. (Ord. 94, 1979)
6-3-15: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
section
6-3-6 of this chapter, shall be served by the City with a written notice
stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for
the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of
time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. (Ord. 93, 7-2-
1979)
   B.   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in subsection A of this section, shall be guilty of a Municipal
infraction and, on conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each violation. Each twenty four (24) hour period in
which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 93, 7-2-1979; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the City for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the City by
reason of such violation. (Ord. 93, 7-2-1979)
CHAPTER 4
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Purpose
6-4-2: Definitions
6-4-3: Cleanup Required
6-4-4: Notifications
6-4-1: PURPOSE:
In order to reduce the danger to public health, safety and welfare from the
spills of hazardous substances, these regulations are promulgated to establish
responsibility for the removal and cleanup of spills within the city limits.
(Ord. 111, 8-1-1994)
6-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, these words have the following meanings:
CLEANUP: The removal of the hazardous wastes or substances to a place where the
waste will not cause any danger to persons or the environment, in accordance
with state rules therefor, or the treatment of the material as defined herein
to eliminate the hazardous condition, including the restoration of the area to
a general good appearance without noticeable odor, as far as practicable.
HAZARDOUS CONDITION: Any situation involving the actual, imminent or probable
spillage, leakage or release of a hazardous substance into the land, into a
water of the state, or into the atmosphere which creates an immediate or
potential danger to the public health or safety or to the environment. For the
purposes of this chapter, a site which is a hazardous waste or hazardous
substance disposal site as defined in Iowa Code 455B.411, subsection 4, is a
hazardous condition.
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE: A hazardous substance as defined in 42 USC section 9601 of
the federal comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act
and any element, compound, mixture, solution or substance designated pursuant
to 40 CFR 302.4.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: A waste or combination of wastes that, because of its
quantity, concentration, biological degradation, leeching from precipitation or
physical, chemical or infectious characteristics, has either of the following
effects:
   A.   Causes or significantly contributes to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible illness.
   B.   Poses a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the
environment when improperly treated, stored, transported or disposed of or
otherwise managed. Hazardous waste may include, but is not limited to, wastes
that are toxic, corrosive or flammable or irritants, strong sensitizers or
explosives.
   C.   Hazardous waste does not include:
      1.   Agricultural wastes, including manures and crop residues that are
returned to the soil as fertilizers or soil conditioners.
      2.   Source, special nuclear, or byproduct materials as defined in the
atomic energy act of 1954, as amended to January 1, 1979.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON: A person having control over a hazardous substance or
hazardous wastes, who at any time produces, handles, stores, uses, transports,
refines or disposes of a hazardous substance, the release of which creates a
hazardous condition, whether on public ways or grounds or on private property,
including bailees, carriers and any other person in control of a hazardous
substance when a hazardous condition occurs, whether the person owns the
hazardous substance or is operating under a lease, contract or other agreement
with the legal owner of the hazardous substance.
TREATMENT: A method, technique or process, including neutralization, designed
to change the physical, chemical or biological character or composition of a
hazardous substance so as to neutralize it or to render the substance
nonhazardous, safer for transport, amenable for recovery, amenable for storage
or to reduce it in volume. Treatment includes any activity or processing
designed to change the physical form or chemical composition of hazardous
substance to render the waste nonhazardous. (Ord. 111, 8-1-1994)
6-4-3: CLEANUP REQUIRED:
   A.   Whenever a hazardous condition is created by the deposit, injection,
dumping, spilling, leaking or placing of a hazardous waste or substance, so
that the hazardous substance or waste or a constituent of the hazardous waste
or substance may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged
into any waters, including ground waters, the responsible person shall cause
the condition to be remedied by a "cleanup", as defined in section
6-4-2 of this chapter, as rapidly as feasible to an acceptable, safe condition.
The costs of cleanup shall be borne by the responsible person.
   B.   If the responsible person does not cause the cleanup to begin in a
reasonable time, in relation to the hazard and circumstances of the incident,
the city may, by an authorized officer, give reasonable notice, based on the
character of the hazardous condition, with this notice setting a deadline for
accomplishing the cleanup, or that the city will proceed to procure cleanup
services and bill the responsible person.
   C.   If the bill for those services is not paid within thirty (30) days, the
city attorney shall proceed to obtain payment by all legal means. If the cost
of the cleanup is beyond the capacity of the city to finance, the authorized
officer shall report to the city council and immediately seek any state or
federal funds available for the cleanup. (Ord. 111, 8-1-1994)
6-4-4: NOTIFICATIONS:
The first city officer or employee who arrives at the scene of an incident
involving hazardous substances, if not a peace officer, shall notify the police
department which shall notify the proper state office in the manner established
by the state. (Ord. 111, 8-1-1994)
CHAPTER 5
SUMP PUMP AND GROUNDWATER STANDARDS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Intent
6-5-2: Prohibited Water
6-5-3: Sump Pump And Rigid Pipe Installation
6-5-4: Inspections
6-5-5: Removal Of Connections
6-5-6: Surcharge
6-5-7: Nuisance
6-5-8: Penalty
6-5-9: Hearing
6-5-1: INTENT:
The intent of this chapter is to comply with the Iowa department of natural
resources' rules relating to the city of Steamboat Rock sewer discharge
permits. In order to comply, the city of Steamboat Rock must establish rules
and regulations governing the installation, use and discharge of sump pumps or
other groundwater conveyance systems and to establish the penalty structures
required to enforce said rules and regulations. The rules and regulations
governing the use of sump pumps or other groundwater conveyance systems are
being established:
   A.   To set forth uniform requirements for the installation, use and
discharge of sump pumps or groundwater conveyance system.
   B.   To prevent the introduction of clean surface water, including, but not
limited to, water from roof or cellar drains, springs, basement sump pumps and
French drains into the sanitary sewers and wastewater collection system.
   C.   Because the city finds it essential to the maintenance of health,
minimization of damage to property, and to maintain and preserve the life and
capacity of the municipal infrastructure. (Ord. 14-1, 1-6-2014)
6-5-2: PROHIBITED WATER:
   A.   It is unlawful for any owner, occupant or user of any premises to
direct into or allow any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, well water or
water from industrial or commercial air conditioning systems (residential
properties may have a 20 gallon per day maximum discharge from air conditioning
systems) to drain into the sanitary sewers and public wastewater collection
system. No rainspout, or other form of surface drainage, and no foundation
drainage or sump pump shall be connected or discharged into the sanitary sewer
and public wastewater collection system.
   B.   Any new or existing construction in which a sump and pump have been or
will be installed shall be required to install, inside the structure, a rigid
pipe connection discharge in accordance with this chapter. It is unlawful to
maintain any connection with the sanitary sewer carrying roof water,
groundwater, surface water or any natural precipitation. (Ord. 14-1, 1-6-2014)
6-5-3: SUMP PUMP AND RIGID PIPE INSTALLATION:
   A.   A discharge pipe shall be installed through the outside foundation wall
of the building with rigid pipe (plastic, copper or galvanized) one inch (1")
inside diameter minimum, without valves or quick connections that would alter
the path of discharge. The discharge shall be directed away from the foundation
wall.
   B.   No discharge shall be directed so as to impact neighboring properties.
   C.   Where a sump pit exists in any building it shall have a pump installed
with rigid piping as specified above.
   D.   Any homeowner who knowingly installs a sump pump and/or piping that is
not in conformance with this chapter will be fined one hundred dollars
($100.00). (Ord. 14-1, 1-6-2014)
6-5-4: INSPECTIONS:
Property owners shall allow a city employee or a designated representative,
satisfactory to the city, to inspect the building to confirm and document that
there is no sump pump or other prohibited discharge into the wastewater
collection system. The city may periodically reinspect any building or premises
to determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter. The initial
inspection schedule will be developed by the water/sewer superintendent and
approved by city council. (Ord. 14-1, 1-6-2014)
6-5-5: REMOVAL OF CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Any property owner who previously made any connection or installation
in violation of this chapter shall immediately remove such connection or
correct such an installation. If not removed or corrected within thirty (30)
calendar days after notice of the violation has been delivered personally or by
certified mail to the owner, the city shall impose a surcharge in the amount
provided by this chapter. The time frame for making corrections may be extended
upon the approval of the utility superintendent for up to ninety (90) days for
cause, beyond the initial thirty (30) day period.
   B.   The owner of a building or premises found to not be in conformance with
this chapter during periodic reinspections shall be subjected to a surcharge as
provided herein starting from the previous date of inspection. (Ord. 14-1, 1-6-
2014)
6-5-6: SURCHARGE:
   A.   If any property owner or contractor/builder refuses to allow the
property under their control to be inspected in accordance with this chapter
for the purposes of determining compliance, the utility billing account for the
property shall, within thirty (30) days of the date that admittance to the
property is refused or denied, immediately become subject to a monthly
surcharge which shall be applied to the sanitary sewer component of their
utility bill. This surcharge shall commence on the first day of the month
following the month when either the property owner or contractor/builder refuse
to allow the property under their control to be inspected by the city or to
otherwise validate compliance in accordance with this chapter. This surcharge
shall continue as long as no documentation satisfactory to the city to
ascertain compliance with this chapter has been provided to the utility
superintendent. This surcharge is intended to offset the added costs associated
with having to treat and collect clear water unnecessarily when the status of a
property's connection to the sanitary sewer system cannot be ascertained.
   B.   1.   A monthly surcharge is hereby imposed on every sewer bill to
property owners for the following conditions:
         a.   Not in compliance with this chapter.
         b.   Refusal of property inspection.
      2.   Surcharge is as follows:
         a.   Twenty five dollars ($25.00) the first month.
         b.   Fifty dollars ($50.00) the second month.
         c.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) the third and subsequent months.
(Ord. 14-1, 1-6-2014)
6-5-7: NUISANCE:
The city may require a property to connect its sump pump discharge line to a
city storm sewer or drainage tile, if available and if, in the determination of
the city, it is necessary because the discharge from the sump pump is creating
a nuisance or hazardous situation. (Ord. 14-1, 1-6-2014)
6-5-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become liable
to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city by reason of
such violation. The city will also retain any and all civil remedies including,
but not limited to, injunction or abatement actions to remedy a violation.
(Ord. 14-1, 1-6-2014)
6-5-9: HEARING:
Any person aggrieved by any provision of this chapter must request a hearing
before the city council within thirty (30) days following an inspection or the
imposition of the surcharge. The finding of the city council shall be final.
Any person aggrieved by the actions of the city council under the provisions of
this chapter may seek such relief through the courts as provided by law. (Ord.
14-1, 1-6-2014)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Datum Plane; Street Grades
7-1-2: Parkings, Abutting Owner
7-1-3: Trimming Of Shade Trees
7-1-4: Placing Of Poles
7-1-5: Use Of Streets By Builders
7-1-6: Removal Of Snow, Ice And Debris From Sidewalks
7-1-1: DATUM PLANE; STREET GRADES:
The datum plane of the city shall be a horizontal plane lying on the X mark on
the centerline of the south parapet of that certain concrete culvert on the
west side of the intersection of Market Street and First Street, the elevation
of which X mark shall be, for all purposes of this section, one thousand
fifteen and nine-tenths feet (1,015.90'). (Ord. 46, 5-13-1950)
Specific grades of streets, alleys, curbs and parkings shall be and remain on
file in the office of the city clerk. (1975 Code)
7-1-2: PARKINGS, ABUTTING OWNER:
When the parking between the property line and the traveled portion of the
street has been improved in accordance with the provisions of this code, the
owner of the abutting property may plant trees and grass upon the said parking,
and shall keep the same free from weeds and rubbish and otherwise in good
condition. The owner of the abutting property may park vehicles which are
licensed, properly insured and in proper running order between the property
line and the traveled portion of the street; however, vehicles may not be
parked on an existing sidewalk. Any owner violating the provisions of this
section shall be subject to the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 7, 9-5-1921; amd. 1975 Code; 2004 Code)
7-1-3: TRIMMING OF SHADE TREES:
The abutting property owner shall not permit the branches of any trees upon or
adjacent to any street or alley in the city to hang less than eight feet (8')
above the ground, except young trees less than three inches (3") in diameter,
nor so as to prevent the proper lighting of a street or alley, and in case of a
failure of the abutting property owner, upon notice to do so, to trim the trees
upon or adjacent to any street or alley, it shall be the duty of the mayor to
cause them to be trimmed so as to comply with the provisions of this chapter,
and the expense thereof shall be assessed against the abutting property by the
city council, and collected in the same manner that other special assessments
are levied and collected, or the said expense may be collected by an action
brought in the name of the city, in any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord.
7, 9-5-1921)
7-1-4: PLACING OF POLES:
No person shall place any electric light, telephone or telegraph poles in the
streets or alleys, in any other places than the ones designated by the mayor or
any person designated by the city council, and the same shall be placed in such
positions as to injure in the least way possible, the growing trees on said
streets or alleys. (Ord. 7, 9-5-1921)
7-1-5: USE OF STREETS BY BUILDERS:
Any person constructing a building adjacent to a street may use not more than
one-half (1/2) the width of the street in front of the building which is in
course of construction, for the placing of materials therefor, for such a
period of time as shall be reasonable under the circumstances, and what shall
be a reasonable time shall be conclusively determined by the city council, and
the material shall be so placed as to obstruct and interfere with public travel
only to such an extent as is absolutely necessary. (Ord. 7, 9-5-1921)
7-1-6: REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE AND DEBRIS FROM SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Removal: The tenant or occupant, or in case there shall be no tenant or
occupant, the owner or owners of any building or lot or tract of land fronting
on or bordering on any street where there is a sidewalk in front thereof,
shall, after the ceasing to fall of any snow thereon, remove or cause to be
removed, the snow or ice therefrom, within twelve (12) hours after the said
snow may have ceased to fall or the ice to form on said sidewalk, and shall
keep or cause said sidewalk or walks to be kept clear of snow and ice as herein
provided. (Ord. 9, 9-5-1921)
   B.   Debris And Obstacles: All tenants or occupants of premises shall at all
times ensure that all debris and any other obstacles or encroaching vegetation
is removed from the sidewalks in order to keep said sidewalks in a clear and
clean condition. (2004 Code)
   C.   Removal By City: Upon the failure of the tenant, occupant or the owner
to remove or cause to be removed, the snow or ice hereinbefore referred to in
subsection A of this section, within the time provided therein, said snow or
ice may be removed under the direction of the mayor without notice to the
tenant, occupant or owner of said premises, at the expense of the city, and the
city council shall assess the cost thereof to the lot, lots or tract of land in
front of or abutting upon the sidewalk from which said snow or ice may have
been removed, provided the amount assessed against said abutting land shall be
ten cents ($0.10) per square foot of walk shoveled, the amount to be so
assessed and taxed shall be a lien upon the lot or tract of land from the time
of the adoption of the resolution by the city council as herein provided. (Ord.
104, 9-6-1988)
   D.   Duties Of City Clerk: The city clerk shall make each month to the city
council an accurate itemized report of the sidewalk or walks from which snow or
ice was removed by the city, the date of such removal, and the cost thereof,
and the description of the lot or tract of land abutting upon the sidewalk from
which snow or ice was so removed, the name of the person to be paid for doing
such work, and all other facts material to a correct understanding of what has
been done under this chapter, and said report shall be presumptive evidence of
the facts therein stated. (Ord. 9, 9-5-1921)
   E.   Assessment By City Council: At the next regular meeting of the city
council after the report is made by the city clerk as provided in subsection C
of this section, the city council shall by resolution, assess the cost of
removing the snow and ice from the sidewalks as herein provided, against the
lots or tracts of land from which said snow or ice was removed, and said
assessment shall be certified by the city clerk to the county auditor of Hardin
County, to be collected by the county treasurer in the same manner as other
taxes. (Ord. 9, 9-5-1921; amd. 1975 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
7-2-1: Permanent Sidewalks
7-2-2: Sidewalk Specifications
7-2-3: Notice To Construct
7-2-4: Special Assessments
7-2-5: Manner Of City Construction
7-2-6: Plat Of Streets Improved
7-2-7: Publication Of Notice
7-2-8: Objections Waived
7-2-1: PERMANENT SIDEWALKS:
The city council may, by resolution, order the construction, reconstruction or
repairing of permanent sidewalks upon any street within the limits of the city,
but the construction of a permanent sidewalk shall not be made until the bed of
the same shall have been so graded that when completed, said sidewalk will be
at the established grade, and assess the cost thereof on the lots or parcels of
land in front of which the same shall be constructed, reconstructed or
repaired, in proportion to the special benefits conferred upon the property
thereby and not in excess thereof, and the city clerk shall certify the amount
of such assessment to the county auditor, and it shall be collected the same as
other taxes. (Ord. 8, 9-5-1921; amd. 2004 Code)
7-2-2: SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   No permanent sidewalk shall be constructed, reconstructed or repaired
on any street in any part of the city as now existing, or as it may hereafter
be extended, unless the same is built of what is known as first quality
Portland cement with such a mixture of sand or crushed stone and water as may
be by resolution provided from time to time by the city council, or in
accordance with plans and specifications that may be adopted therefor and kept
on file in the office of the city clerk.
   B.   The city council may at any time by resolution, condemn any sidewalk
now in use or which may hereafter be constructed within the city, which is
constructed or may be constructed of materials in any different manner than
that prescribed or adopted the city council for the construction or
reconstruction of permanent sidewalks and in force at the time such sidewalk
shall have been constructed or reconstructed, and may authorize any person, or
any employee of the city, to remove such sidewalk and rebuild the same in
conformity with the requirements of the city council then in force, and the
cost of removing and reconstructing said sidewalk, shall be assessed against
the property along which such sidewalk was removed or reconstructed. Such
assessment shall be made in the same manner as assessments made for the cost of
constructing permanent sidewalks herein provided. (Ord. 8, 9-5-1921)
7-2-3: NOTICE TO CONSTRUCT:
Whenever the city council shall order the construction, reconstruction or
repair of any sidewalk, under the provisions of this chapter, it shall give to
the owners of the proper which may be assessed therefor, a notice stating that
unless within fifteen (15) days after the service of such notice upon them,
such owner or owners shall commence the construction, reconstruction or repair
of such sidewalk and shall complete the same within thirty (30) days thereafter
which is specified in said notice, the city council will proceed as hereinafter
provided, to construct, reconstruct or repair the same, and tax the cost
thereof to the property abutting thereon as by law provided 1 . (Ord. 8, 9-5-
1921; amd. 2004 Code)
The notice herein provided for shall be substantially as follows:
   NOTICE
   To
   Notice is hereby given that the city council of the city of Steamboat Rock,
Iowa, on the         day of                , 20     , ordered a permanent
sidewalk (specifying whether to be constructed, reconstructed or repaired) in
       days from that date, on the        side of        street, between       
and        streets, in front of the following described premises: (giving
number of lot and block, or description of said tract of land), in said city,
to be the width of        feet, and        feet from the property line,
constructed in the manner required by the city.
   You are further notified that unless the same be (specifying whether to be
constructed, reconstructed or repaired) within the time and in the manner
required, the said city council will cause such sidewalk to be (specifying
whether constructed, reconstructed or repaired) and so much of the cost thereof
will be assessed against the premises chargeable therewith as shall equal the
special benefit thereto.
   Dated at Steamboat Rock, Iowa, on this the        day of         , 20    .
   City Clerk
Said notice shall be served on the owner of each lot or parcel of land fronting
or abutting upon the contemplated improvement when said owner can be found, and
in case he cannot be found within the city, then upon the agent for said
property, if any such agent is found within the city. The officer serving the
notice shall make due return of the service and the notice, and the same shall
be filed by the city clerk and by him preserved among the records of the city,
and if the officer has returned that no one can be found upon whom service can
be made, then publication of such notice shall be by posting in three (3)
public places in the city. Any notices that must be served under the provisions
of this chapter or any other provisions of this code, now in force or hereafter
enacted, may be served by the mayor, city clerk, any member of the city
council, or any other person that may be designated by the city council, and a
return made by the officer or person serving the same, by merely signing the
same. (Ord. 8, 9-5-1921)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 384.59 et seq.
7-2-4: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS:
   A.   Method: Whenever any sidewalk shall be constructed, reconstructed or
repaired by the city, and the cost thereof assessed to the abutting property,
the amount of such assessment which may be levied against any lot or tract of
land shall be in proportion to the special benefits conferred upon the property
thereby and not in excess of such benefits. Such assessment shall not exceed
twenty five percent (25%) of the actual value of such lot or tract of land at
the time of the levy 1  and the last preceding assessment roll shall be taken
as prima facie evidence of such value, and if such special assessment shall be
insufficient to pay the cost of the improvement, the deficiency shall be paid
from the general fund or from the improvement fund.
   B.   Manner Of Making: The special assessments made in said plat and
schedule, as corrected and approved, shall be levied at one time, by
resolution, against the property abutting on the improvement, and when levied
and certified by the city clerk shall be payable to the office of the county
treasurer, according to the provisions of the Iowa Code.
   C.   Lien: When any special assessment as herein provided, is assessed
against any lots or parcel of land, the said special assessments shall be a
lien or the lots or parcels of ground, from the date of the passage of the
resolution levying the same, and shall be certified by the city clerk to the
county treasurer, as by law provided.
   D.   Appeals: Any person affected or aggrieved by the levy of any special
assessment provided for in this chapter, may appeal therefrom to the district
court, by serving a written notice thereof upon the mayor or city clerk, within
ten (10) days from the date of the levy of such assessment, and by filing a
bond for costs in an amount to be fixed by the mayor or city clerk and approved
by either of said officers. (Ord. 8, 9-5-1921)
   E.   Interest: Each installment of said special assessment shall bear
interest at the maximum rate provided in the Iowa Code from the date of the
assessment, which assessment shall become due and payable at the time the first
installment of semiannual ordinary taxes becomes due under the laws of Iowa.
(Ord. 8, 9-5-1921; amd. 1975 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 384.62.
7-2-5: MANNER OF CITY CONSTRUCTION:
If the owner or owners of any lot or lots or parts thereof or tracts of land
fronting or abutting upon said contemplated improvement shall fail, refuse or
neglect to have said sidewalk or sidewalks constructed, reconstructed or
repaired, by the time limited by the order of the city council and specified in
the notice referred to in section
7-2-6 of this chapter, the city shall cause the same to be done by contract and
the cost of the construction, reconstruction or repairing of the sidewalks
shall be assessed as a special assessment against the property abutting
thereon, as provided for in section
7-2-7 of this chapter. When any construction, reconstruction or repairing of
any sidewalk is made by the city as herein provided, the city council shall
ascertain the cost thereof, including the cost of estimates, notices,
inspection, preparing the plat and assessment, and shall also ascertain what
portion thereof shall be assessed to the property abutting thereon, and shall
then by resolution, assess such portions upon and against said property, as
provided by law. (Ord. 8, 9-5-1921)
7-2-6: PLAT OF STREETS IMPROVED:
In assessing that part of the cost of constructing, reconstructing or repairing
of any sidewalk which is assessable against the lots or parcels of ground
abutting thereon, the city clerk shall prepare a drawing or plat, showing the
streets or parts thereof on which the same shall have been constructed,
reconstructed or repaired, showing the separate lots, parcels of ground and
portions thereof subject to assessment for such improvement, names of the
owners thereof as far as practicable, the amount to be assessed against each
lot or parcel of ground, and shall file said plat and schedule in his office,
which shall be subject to public inspection. (Ord. 8, 9-5-1921)
7-2-7: PUBLICATION OF NOTICE:
After the filing of the plat and schedule, the city council shall give at least
ten (10) days' notice by posting in three (3) public places that the said plat
and schedule are on file in the office of the city clerk, and that all
objections thereto and to the prior proceedings, errors, irregularities or
inequalities must be made in writing and filed with the city clerk, within
twenty (20) days after the posting thereof, and the city council after the time
specified in said notice has elapsed, shall hear and determine all objections
thereto, and after making the necessary corrections, if any, shall then by
resolution, make the special assessment as shown in the said plat and schedule
as corrected and approved. (Ord. 8, 9-5-1921; amd. 1975 Code)
7-2-8: OBJECTIONS WAIVED:
All objections to the errors, irregularities or inequalities in the making of
said special assessment, or in any of the prior proceedings or notices, not
made before the city council by the time and in the manner hereinbefore
provided, shall be deemed waived. (Ord. 8, 9-5-1921)
CHAPTER 3
FRANCHISE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Franchise Holder Subject To Regulations
7-3-2: Chapter Part Of Franchise
7-3-1: FRANCHISE HOLDER SUBJECT TO REGULATIONS:
Any person, firm or corporation to whom a franchise may hereafter be granted by
the city for any purpose whatever, must be subject to all regulations that the
city council may, by ordinance or resolution, then or thereafter adopt in
respect to the reasonable control and regulation of the plant and business for
which the franchise may be granted and the use of the streets or alleys
therefor, and no condition shall be contained in said franchise, or if
contained therein shall not be binding upon the city, which does or attempts to
abridge, limit or interfere with the superior rights of the city in respect to
such control or regulation. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any
franchise that has been hereinbefore granted to any person, firm or
corporation, and the said person, firm or corporation shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter, except insofar as the provisions of this chapter or
any regulation that the city council may prescribe may be in conflict with,
inconsistent with, or in violation of the valid provisions of the franchise
granted to said person, firm or corporation. (Ord. 13, 9-5-1921)
7-3-2: CHAPTER PART OF FRANCHISE:
All franchises hereafter granted to any person, firm or corporation, or any
franchise hereinbefore granted to any person, firm or corporation for any of
the purposes hereinbefore referred to, shall be subject to the provisions of
this chapter, which shall be a part of each franchise or contract. (Ord. 14, 9-
5-1921; amd. 1975 Code)
CHAPTER 4
WEEDS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Destruction Of Weeds
7-4-2: Noxious Weeds Designated
7-4-3: Failure To Destroy
7-4-4: Grass Maintenance
7-4-1: DESTRUCTION OF WEEDS:
It shall be the duty of each owner, occupant or person in control of any lands
within the City, whether the same shall consist of improved or unimproved
lands, or lands used for railway right-of-way, or lots used for any purpose
whatsoever, to cut, burn or otherwise entirely destroy all noxious weeds, as
defined in section
7-4-2 of this chapter, growing on said lands and to the middle of the street or
alley immediately adjacent thereto, at such times and in such manner as shall
prevent the said weeds from blooming or reaching maturity, and to keep the said
lands and parkings free from such growths of other weeds as shall render the
streets or highways adjoining the same unsafe for public travel or shall
interfere in any manner with the proper construction or repair of said public
streets or highways. The owner, occupant or person in control shall cause to be
cut near the surface of the ground all weeds on the streets or highways
adjoining said lands, and such weeds shall be destroyed in such manner as shall
prevent the said weeds from blooming or reaching maturity. (Ord. 6, 8-18-1921;
amd. 2004 Code)
7-4-2: NOXIOUS WEEDS DESIGNATED:
The following weeds are here declared to be noxious weeds: all plants growing
uncultivated and out of context with the surrounding plant life when such plant
has a seed head forming or is formed. Dense growth of all weeds, vines, brush,
or other vegetation in the City is considered to constitute a health, safety,
or fire hazard. (Ord. 2-18, 9-10-2018)
7-4-3: FAILURE TO DESTROY:
If any such owner, occupant or person in control of any such land, including
streets and alleys, shall fail or neglect to do the things necessary to prevent
the said noxious weeds on any such land from blooming or coming to maturity, or
shall permit weeds thereon contrary to the provisions of section
7-4-1 of this chapter, or if it shall appear that there is danger that any such
noxious weeds on any such land may mature, then, upon their own motion, or upon
complaint made to any member thereof, or to the Mayor, it shall be the duty of
the City Council to make investigation of such conditions or complaint, or
cause investigation thereof to be made, and if it appears that there is danger
that any such noxious weeds may mature, the City Council shall make an order
fixing the time within which the weeds shall be prevented from maturing seed or
the said weeds shall be destroyed, prescribing the manner of their destruction,
and shall forthwith give notice in writing of said order, personally, to the
owner of the land upon which the weeds are growing or the street immediately
adjacent thereto, if service of such notice can be made within the City, and if
it cannot be so served, then by mailing such notice by certified mail to the
owner, at his last known address, and also by giving a copy of the notice to
the person in apparent control of said land, whose duty it shall also be to
mail said notice to the owner, or the notice to property owners, requiring the
destruction of such weeds, may be given by written notice posted in three (3)
public places in the City, and if the order so made is not substantially
complied with by the time fixed in the order and after reasonable notice as
herein provided, then it shall be the duty of the City Council to cause said
order to be fully performed, and said noxious weeds destroyed in the manner
provided in section
7-4-1 of this chapter, and the expense of same including the cost of serving
said notice or the posting thereof and the said meetings of the City Council,
if any are required, shall be advanced out of the General Fund, and at any
meeting of the City Council an assessment shall be made against said land upon
which said weeds were destroyed, or the streets immediately adjacent thereto,
and the owner thereof, by a special tax, which shall be certified and
collected, together with interest and penalty after due, in the same manner as
any other special tax is certified and collected, and shall be collected by the
County Treasurer, and when collected shall be paid into the fund upon which
said warrant is drawn. Before making such assessment, however, ten (10) days'
notice shall be given such owner, of the time and place of meeting of the City
Council, which notice shall also contain a statement of the work done, and the
expense thereof, and shall be given in the same manner as originally to owners,
as hereinbefore provided; but where notice requiring the destruction of said
weeds is given by posting, the notice of assessment may be given by mailing
said notice in a letter. (Ord. 6, 8-18-1921; amd. 2004 Code)
7-4-4: GRASS MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Exceeding Six Inches: It shall be the duty of each owner, occupant or
person in control of any lands within the city, whether the same shall consist
of improved or unimproved lands or lots used for any purpose whatsoever, to
keep the grass cut to a height not to exceed six inches (6").
   B.   Failure To Cut: If any such owner, occupant or person in control of any
lands within the city, whether the same shall consist of improved or unimproved
lands or lots used for any purpose whatsoever, fails to keep the grass cut to a
height of six inches (6"), said owner, occupant or person in control shall be
notified in writing and given seven (7) days to cut the grass to comply with
the provisions of this section. Failure to comply within seven (7) days will
result in the city cutting the grass and assessing the cost thereof against the
property. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 5
GRAVEL PITS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Operation Of Gravel Pits
7-5-1: OPERATION OF GRAVEL PITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a gravel pit within the limits
of the city.
(Ord. 30, 7-27-1937; amd. 1975 Code; 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 6
WATERWORKS SYSTEM
SECTION:
7-6-1: Administration
7-6-2: Waterworks Fund
7-6-3: Rules And Regulations
7-6-4: Rules Part Of Contract
7-6-5: Rates, Charges
7-6-6: Meters Furnished By City
7-6-7: Water Measured By Meters
7-6-8: Monthly Readings
7-6-9: Delinquent Payments
7-6-10: Testing Meter
7-6-11: Fire Hydrants
7-6-12: Nonliability Of City
7-6-13: Injure, Disturb Property
7-6-14: Use Of Equipment
7-6-15: Excavations Near Water Pipes
7-6-1: ADMINISTRATION:
The Superintendent of Public Works, under control of the City Council, shall be
responsible for complying with the requirements of this chapter and any
requirements affecting the waterworks system dictated by Iowa Code and/or the
Iowa Department of Natural Resources. (2004 Code)
7-6-2: WATERWORKS FUND:
There shall be an account kept by the City Clerk known as the Waterworks Fund.
All money received from the sale of waterworks bonds, from the collection of
water rents, from taxation for waterworks purposes, from the sale of any
property or material connected with the waterworks, from any appropriation made
by the City Council for the purpose of construction or extension of waterworks
or from any source whatever connected with the management and operation of the
waterworks system, shall be placed in the Waterworks Fund, and all salaries and
disbursements connected with the management and operation of the waterworks
system shall be paid out of this fund. (Ord. 35, 8-19-1940; amd. 1975 Code)
7-6-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The following rules and regulations for the government of water users, plumbers
and others are hereby adopted and established:
   A.   Every person desiring a supply of water must make oral application
therefor to the City Clerk. Not more than one (1) house or premises shall be
supplied from one (1) tap, except by written permission of the City Council and
not then in any case unless provision is made so that each house or premises
can be shut off independently of every other house or premises. (Ord. 35, 8-19-
1940; amd. 1975 Code; 2004 Code)
   B.   Each applicant for water connection to the mains as provided in
subsection A of this section shall pay the cost of running his own water
pipeline to said main and shall pay the reasonable cost for tapping said main
and connecting thereto. Said applicant shall also pay a meter deposit of one
hundred dollars ($100.00), which shall be refunded when said applicant
discontinues the use thereof and pays all water bills in full. (Ord. 1-17, 3-
13-2017)
   C.   All bills must be paid promptly when due. (Ord. 35, 8-19-1940; amd.
2004 Code)
   D.   Water will not be turned on in any house or private service except by
order of the Mayor or person designated by him. This rule shall not be
construed to prohibit plumbers from turning water into any pipes to test the
same for that purpose only.
   E.   No consumer shall supply water to other families nor suffer them to
take water off their premises, or after water is introduced into any building,
or upon their premises, shall any person make or employ any plumber or other
person to make any taps or connections with the pipes upon the premises for
alterations, extensions or attachments without filing a regular application
therefor and issuing a permit by the City Clerk. All water shall pass through a
meter before being tapped. (Ord. 35, 8-19-1940; amd. 1975 Code)
   F.   All persons using water shall keep the hydrants, tap, hose, water
closet, urinals, bath or other fixtures allotted to their use, closed except
when obtaining water for use, and shall be responsible for any damage or injury
that may result to others from the improper use of water.
   G.   All meters shall be so placed as to be easy of access and convenient to
read and inspect. They shall also be protected from frost in such a manner as
to prevent freezing. (Ord. 35, 8-19-1940)
   H.   All meters shall be tested when deemed necessary by the mayor or when
ordered by the water committee of the city council, and all defective meters
shall be repaired by the waterworks superintendent or under his supervision.
   I.   Should a meter get out of order or repair, or fail to register
properly, the consumer will be charged with the average quarterly consumption
as shown by the meter, when in order, for the two (2) quarterly periods
previous thereto or any fraction thereof if the same has not been used that
long.
   J.   In no case shall licensed plumbers or others remove a meter from its
setting or interfere with its reading for any cause, without first obtaining a
permit from the mayor.
   K.   All persons taking water shall keep their own service pipe, stop cocks
and apparatus in good repair and protected from frost at their own risk and
expense, and shall prevent all unnecessary waste of water, and it is expressly
stipulated that no claim shall be made against the city by reason of the
breaking of any service pipe or service cock, or if for any cause the supply of
water should fail or from damage arising from shutting off the water to repair
mains, making connections or extensions, or for any other purpose that may be
deemed necessary, and the right is hereby reserved to cut off the supply of
water at any time, any permit granted or regulation to the contrary
notwithstanding.
   L.   Every person taking water supplied through the waterworks system shall
permit the mayor or his designee at all reasonable hours of the day to enter
their premises or buildings to examine the pipes and fixtures and to read
meters. (Ord. 35, 8-19-1940; amd. 1975 Code)
   M.   The use of hose for sprinkling yards, gardens and streets or for
washing windows and sidewalks is prohibited during a fire or when there is an
alarm of fire upon order of the mayor in case of an emergency.
   N.   All underground service pipes from the mains to the basement or meter
shall be of seamless copper type K connected by brass couplings. (Ord. 35, 82-
19-1940; amd. 2004 Code)
   O.   Every service pipe must be sufficiently waving and laid in such a
manner as to prevent rupture by settlement.
   P.   Mains must be tapped on the top and not in any case within ten inches
(10") of the hub.
   Q.   All service pipes must be laid as much underground as the main pipe in
the street, and in all cases to be deep enough to prevent rupture freezing.
   R.   Stop cocks shall be placed in every service pipe at the outer sidewalk
line and protected by stop cock box of a pattern approved by the city council,
reaching from the stop cock to the surface of the ground, of a suitable size to
admit a stop key for turning on and off the stop cock and with heavy metal
cover having the letter "w" marked thereon, visible and even with pavement or
ground. Where one service pipe is intended to supply two (2) or more consumers,
there shall be separate service cocks for each.
   S.   There shall be a stop and waste cock of a pattern and weight approved
by the city council, attached to every service pipe at a point where it enters
the building, inside the same easily accessible and so situated that the water
can be conveniently shut off and drained from the pipes.
   T.   In making excavations in streets or highways for the laying of service
pipes or making repairs, the planks or paving stones or earth shall be
deposited in such a manner as to occasion the least inconvenience to the public
and provide for the passage of water along the gutter. (Ord. 35, 8-19-1940)
   U.   Service pipes must be thoroughly flushed before a meter is attached.
(Ord. 35, 8-19-1940; amd. 2004 Code)
   V.   After the service pipes are laid, in refilling the excavation, the
earth must be laid in layers and each layer thoroughly tamped and packed to
prevent settlement, and this work, together with the replacement of the
sidewalk, ballast and paving, must be done so as to make the street at least as
good as it was before the excavation was made and to the satisfaction of the
mayor. (Ord. 35, 8-19-1940; amd. 1975 Code)
   W.   Water service may be severed upon notice to the Mayor whenever the
premises are to be unoccupied and be reconnected, and if the premises are
unoccupied for more than one month, the minimum charge for water service will
be charged.
(Ord. 35, 8-19-1940; amd. 1975 Code; 2004 Code)
7-6-4: RULES PART OF CONTRACT:
The rules, regulations and water rates as set out in this chapter shall be
considered a part of the contract with every person supplied with water through
the waterworks system, and every person, by taking water, shall be considered
to express his assent to be bound thereby when any of the same are violated, or
such others as the City Council may adopt, the water shall be cut off from the
building or place of such violation and shall not be turned on except by the
order of the Mayor or his duly authorized agent, and only then after the
payment of the expense of shutting off the water and turning it on again, and
such other items as the City Council or Water Committee thereof shall
determine, and in case of such violation, the City Council or Sewer and Water
Committee thereof shall have the right to declare forfeited any payments made
for water by the person committing such violation. (Ord. 35, 8-19-1940; amd.
1975 Code; Ord. 22-02, 3-14-2022)
7-6-5: RATES, CHARGES:
Meter rates shall be as follows:
 
First 1,000 gallons or part thereof   $25.00 per 1,000 gallons (minimum monthly
                                      bill)
Next 1,000 gallons each month         $ 2.00 per 1,000 gallons
Beginning July 1, 2022, the base rate $25.00 per 1,000 gallons, annual increase
will be                               of $2.00
 
(Ord. 19-2, 3-11-2019; amd. Ord. 22-02, 3-14-2022)
7-6-6: METERS FURNISHED BY CITY:
Meters shall be furnished by the City and shall remain the property of the City
and be installed by the Public Works Superintendent or other proper authority
or licensed plumber. Such installation shall be in the basement of the house
when practical, otherwise to be placed in a frostproof box that is of
sufficient depth to prevent freezing and at any time be readily inspected.
(Ord. 35, 8-19-1940; amd. 1975 Code; 2004 Code)
7-6-7: WATER MEASURED BY METERS:
All water shall be measured by meters. (Ord. 35, 8-19-1940)
7-6-8: MONTHLY READINGS:
Meters shall be read monthly by the Water Superintendent. Where meters are
connected for temporary use, water rents shall be due and payable monthly.
(Ord. 19-1, 1-14-2019)
7-6-9: DELINQUENT PAYMENTS:
Water charges shall become delinquent thirty (30) days after a statement is
rendered, and if not paid within ten (10) days after they become delinquent the
water service may be severed and to be reconnected the delinquent party must
pay all accounts past due and a reconnect fee of fifty dollars ($50.00). Once
the water is shut off due to a delinquent bill, it will not be turned on again
until the bill is paid.
(Ord. 107, 6-5-1989, eff. 7-1-1989; amd. 2004 Code)
7-6-10: TESTING METER:
Any property owner may request his meter to be tested, and should the meter
register two percent (2%) or more over, he shall be entitled to an adjustment
by the Water Committee on the basis of the over registration of the meter.
(Ord. 35, 8-19-1940; amd. 1975 Code; 2004 Code)
7-6-11: FIRE HYDRANTS:
All hydrants erected for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared
to be public hydrants, and no person, except members of the Fire Department, or
persons especially authorized by the City Council, and then only in the
exercise of authority delegated by said City Council, shall open any of said
hydrants or attempt to draw water from the same, or at any time attempt to
uncover or remove any protection from or in any manner interfere with any of
the hydrants. (Ord. 35, 8-19-1940)
7-6-12: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
The City does not guarantee a constant supply of water to any consumer and
shall not be liable for damages for any failure to supply the same, nor shall
it be liable for any claim or damage by reason of breaking of any service pipe,
stopcock or other equipment, or if for any reason the supply of water shall be
shut off to make repairs, connections or extensions or for any other purpose
that may be found necessary. The right is reserved to cut off the supply of
water at any time. (Ord. 35, 8-19-1940)
7-6-13: INJURE, DISTURB PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful to break, injure, mar or deface, interfere with or disturb
any building, machinery, apparatus, fixtures, attachments or appurtenances of
the waterworks, or any hydrant, stopcock box, or to commit any act tending to
obstruct or impair the intended use of any of the above mentioned property,
without permission of the City Council, or excepting cases herein or otherwise
provided by ordinance. (Ord. 35, 8-19-1940)
7-6-14: USE OF EQUIPMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person authorized to open hydrants to delegate his
authority to another or permit another person to take wrenches or tools
furnished him, or permit the same to be taken from any hose house except for
the purpose strictly connected with the Fire Department or as they accompany
hose carts or wagons on occasions of fire, unless authorized by the Mayor.
(Ord. 35, 8-19-1940; amd. 1975 Code)
7-6-15: EXCAVATIONS NEAR WATER PIPES 1 :
It shall be unlawful to make any excavations in any street or highway within
six feet (6') of any laid water pipe, while the ground is frozen, or dig up or
uncover so as to expose to frost any of the water pipes or sewers of the City
except by special permission of the City Council. (Ord. 35, 8-19-1940)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 7 of this title.
CHAPTER 7
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-7-1: Plans And Specifications
7-7-2: Action Of City Council
7-7-3: Method Of Restoration
7-7-4: Danger Signals
7-7-5: Excavation Permit
7-7-1: PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
Whenever it becomes necessary for any person to cut, dig, break or drill into
or through, or drill under any of the permanent walks, curbs or pavements upon
the surface of any of the streets, avenues, alleys or crossings within the
city, such person shall receive permission from the city council. (1975 Code;
amd. 2004 Code)
7-7-2: ACTION OF CITY COUNCIL:
Plans and specifications shall be considered by the city council at its next
regular meeting, or at a special meeting called for said purpose, and the city
council shall either grant or reject the request. (1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
7-7-3: METHOD OF RESTORATION:
If any person shall cut, dig, break or drill through or into, or drill under,
any of the permanent walks, curbs or pavements, as above provided, any and all
material, dirt and earth loosened or disturbed thereby shall be at once hauled
away and the hole caused by such removal shall be filled with damp sand and the
space formerly occupied by the concrete shall be repaired by concrete in like
proportion, consistency, workmanship and form as the concrete removed. (1975
Code)
7-7-4: DANGER SIGNALS:
Any person making an excavation in the streets, avenues or alleys in the city
or on private grounds close to sidewalks thereon shall not permit the same to
remain open at night without marking or protecting the same with adequate
warning lights and barriers. (1975 Code)
7-7-5: EXCAVATION PERMIT:
Any person who desires to dig in any street, alley or public grounds or remove
earth therefrom, or who shall do any other act which shall deface the same or
impair it for travel or public use shall obtain permission from the city
council. (1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 8
TEMPORARY STRUCTURES
SECTION:
7-8-1: Shipping/Storage Containers
7-8-1: SHIPPING/STORAGE CONTAINERS:
Temporary storage containers, shipping containers, pods, or any other similar
portable structure may be placed within the City Limits of Steamboat Rock
subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   No wheels or undercarriage.
   B.   Placed and maintained perfectly level on a rodent proof foundation.
   C.   May not be used as a dwelling, living quarters, for camping, cooking,
or any recreational use.
   D.   Must not be kept in the front setback area or designated parking areas,
shall not impede traffic or pedestrians. No Temporary Portable Storage
Container shall be placed or located in a circulation aisle/lane, fire access
lane, public utility easement or public right-of-way, including streets,
sidewalks, and parking strips.
   D.   Must be kept in good repair. A Temporary Portable Storage Container is
not in a state of good repair when any of the following occur: incapable of
being moved intact, has exposed rust, has scaling paint, unable to be secured
against unauthorized entry, is not in compliance with health regulations, holes
in the container exist due to damage/rot/ or rust, has been infested with
vermin or other pests.
   E.   Any Temporary Portable Storage Container that has deteriorated and is
not in state of good repair must be removed immediately. (Ord. 22-01, 3-14-
2022)
TITLE 8
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
Article I. In General
8-1-1-1: Definitions
8-1-1-2: Clinging To Vehicles
8-1-1-3: Riding Upon Vehicle
Article II. Operation Regulations
Division 1. Generally
8-1-2-1: Obedience To Police Officers
8-1-2-2: Obedience To Traffic Signals
8-1-2-3: Operation Of Vehicles In General
8-1-2-4: Driving On Closed Streets
8-1-2-5: Driving On Right Side; Exception
8-1-2-6: Duty To Keep In Single Lane
8-1-2-7: Emergency Vehicles Exempt
8-1-2-8: Emergency Vehicles To Comply With Law
8-1-2-9: Yielding Roadway To Oncoming Vehicle
8-1-2-10: Excessive Noise
8-1-2-11: Use Of Warning Devices At Night
8-1-2-12: Limitations On Backing
8-1-2-13: Driving Across Sidewalks, Crosswalks
8-1-2-14: Following Too Closely
8-1-2-15: Operation Of Golf Carts
Division 2. Speed
8-1-3-1: Obedience To Speed Limits
8-1-3-2: Minimum Speed; Police Procedures
8-1-3-3: Emergency Vehicles Exempt
8-1-3-4: Speed Limits To Be Posted
8-1-3-5: Limits Established
Division 3. Passing
8-1-4-1: Overtaking At Intersections
8-1-4-2: No Passing Zones
8-1-4-3: Duty Of Driver Upon Being Overtaken
8-1-4-4: Failure To Heed Signal; Overtaking Vehicle
8-1-4-5: Duty Of Driver, Overtaking Another
Division 4. Starting, Stopping And Turning
8-1-5-1: Starting Parked Vehicle
8-1-5-2: Turning At Intersections
8-1-5-3: When Signal Required
8-1-5-4: U-Turns; Procedure
Division 5. Right Of Way
8-1-6-1: Intersections
8-1-6-2: Entering Street From Alley, Private Way
8-1-6-3: Processions
8-1-6-4: Emergency Vehicles
Article III. Signs And Signals
8-1-7-1: Obedience To Signs, Signals
8-1-7-2: Placing Traffic Signs, Signals; Conformity Of Installation
8-1-7-3: Crosswalks And Crossing Areas
8-1-7-4: Unauthorized Signs, Signals; Defacing
Article IV. Motor Vehicles
Division 1. Generally
8-1-8-1: Windshields And Windows
8-1-8-2: Driving Unsafe Vehicles; Equipment Required
8-1-8-3: Emergency Signaling Devices
8-1-8-4: Use Of Unsafe Vehicles
Division 2. Size, Weight And Load
8-1-9-1: Width Limitation
8-1-9-2: Projecting Body, Loads To Be Marked
8-1-9-3: Weight Limitations
Division 3. Lights
8-1-10-1: Headlights
8-1-10-2: Headlight Requirements
8-1-10-3: Taillights; Illuminations Of Registration Plate
8-1-10-4: Auxiliary Driving Lamps
8-1-10-5: Spot Lamps
8-1-10-6: Conformity Of Lighting Equipment
8-1-10-7: Turning Off Lights To Avoid Arrest
8-1-10-8: Parked Vehicles; Accident
Division 4. Other Equipment
8-1-11-1: Mufflers
8-1-11-2: Brakes
8-1-11-3: Horns And Warning Devices
8-1-11-4: Tires; Projections
8-1-11-5: Use Of Engine Brakes Prohibited
Article V. Motorcycles
8-1-12-1: Headlights
8-1-12-2: Riding And Operation
Article VI. Accidents
8-1-13-1: Duty Of Driver; Accident Involving Another Vehicle
8-1-13-2: Duty Of Driver; Accident Involving Personal Injury
8-1-13-3: Accident Reports
Article VII. Pedestrians
8-1-14-1: Obedience To Traffic Officers, Signals
Article VIII. One-Way Streets
8-1-15-1: Establishing One-Way Streets
8-1-15-2: Signs To Be Posted; Location Requirements
8-1-15-3: Obedience To Signs
Article IX. Stop And Through Streets
8-1-16-1: Establishment Of Through Streets
8-1-16-2: Placing Signs Or Devices
8-1-16-3: Observance By Driver
Article X. Parking
8-1-17-1: Prohibited Parking Places Enumerated
8-1-17-2: No Parking Areas To Be Designated
8-1-17-3: Manner Of Parking
8-1-17-4: Double Parked Defined
8-1-17-5: Double Parking
8-1-17-6: Unattended Vehicles
8-1-17-7: Impounding Of Illegally Parked Vehicles
8-1-17-8: Parking In Proximity To Railroad
8-1-17-9: Diagonal Parking; Length Of Vehicle
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
8-1-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the definitions contained in Iowa Code 321.1
are hereby adopted as if set out fully herein. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-1-2: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
Any person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, roller skates or
any toy vehicle shall not attach the same or himself to any moving vehicle upon
any roadway. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-1-3: RIDING UPON VEHICLE:
No person shall ride on any vehicle, upon any portion thereof not designated or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding
within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
ARTICLE II. OPERATION REGULATIONS
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
8-1-2-1: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS 1 :
No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control or regulate traffic. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1 IC § 321.229.
8-1-2-2: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC SIGNALS 1 :
No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official traffic
control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, unless
at the time otherwise directed by a peace officer subject to the exceptions
granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd.
2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1 IC § 321.256.
8-1-2-3: OPERATION OF VEHICLES IN GENERAL 2 :
Any person driving a motor vehicle on a highway shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the highway and
of any other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive any vehicle
upon a highway at a speed greater than will permit the person to bring it to a
stop within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right to
assume, however, that all persons using said highway will observe the law.
(Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
2 2 IC § 321.285.
8-1-2-4: DRIVING ON CLOSED STREETS:
Whenever signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof as a closed
street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon such street or portion thereof.
(Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-2-5: DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE; EXCEPTION 3 :
   A.   A vehicle shall be driven upon the right half of the roadway upon all
roadways of sufficient width, except as follows:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      2.   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the roadway, provided any person so doing shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the roadway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      3.   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon;
      4.   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic.
   B.   Any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed of traffic at the
time and place and under the conditions then existing shall be driven in the
right hand lane then available for traffic upon all roadways, or as close as
practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection, an alley, private road or
driveway.
   C.   A vehicle shall not be driven upon any roadway having four (4) or more
lanes for moving traffic and providing for two-way movement of traffic, to the
left of the centerline of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic control devices designating certain lanes to the left side of the
center of the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use such
lanes, or except as permitted under subsection A2 of this section. This
subsection shall not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the centerline
in making a left turn into or from an alley, private road or driveway.
(Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
3 3 IC § 321.297.
8-1-2-6: DUTY TO KEEP IN SINGLE LANE:
Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly marked lanes
a vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a single lane
and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first ascertained
that such movement can be made with safety. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-2-7: EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXEMPT:
None of the provisions of this chapter shall apply to authorized emergency
vehicles while in attendance upon an official call. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-2-8: EMERGENCY VEHICLES TO COMPLY WITH LAW 1 :
   A.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in pursuit of an actual or suspected perpetrator of a
felony or in response to an incident dangerous to the public or when responding
to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may exercise the privileges set
forth in this section.
   B.   The driver of any authorized emergency vehicle may:
      1.   Park or stand an authorized emergency vehicle irrespective of the
provisions of this chapter;
      2.   Disregard laws or regulations governing direction of movement for
the minimum distance necessary before an alternative route that conforms to the
traffic laws and regulations is available.
   C.   The driver of a fire department vehicle, police vehicle or ambulance,
or a peace officer riding a police bicycle in the line of duty, may do any of
the following:
      1.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      2.   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as the driver does not
endanger life or property.
   D.   The exemptions granted to an authorized emergency vehicle under
subsection B of this section and for a fire department vehicle, police vehicle
or ambulance as provided in subsection C of this section shall apply only when
such vehicle is making use of an audible signaling device meeting the
requirements of Iowa Code 321.433, or a visual signaling device, except that
use of an audible or visual signaling device shall not be required when
exercising the exemption granted under subsection C2 of this section when the
vehicle is operated by a peace officer, pursuing a suspected violator of the
speed restrictions imposed by or pursuant to this chapter, for the purpose of
determining the speed of travel of such suspected violator.
   E.   The foregoing provisions shall not relief the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle or the rider of a police bicycle form the duty to drive or
ride with due regard for the safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions
protect the driver or rider from the consequences of the driver's or rider's
reckless disregard for the safety of others. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004
Code)
 
Notes
1 1 IC § 321.231.
8-1-2-9: YIELDING ROADWAY TO ONCOMING VEHICLE:
Drivers of vehicles meeting each other on the public highways of the city shall
each give one-half (1/2) of the traveled way thereof by turning to the right.
(Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-2-10: EXCESSIVE NOISE:
   A.   Use Of Warning Devices: No driver of a motor vehicle shall make or
cause to be made any unnecessary noise with the horn or other signaling device
with which the vehicle is equipped, or use the same except as a warning of a
danger, and no driver of a vehicle, other than an authorized emergency vehicle
on emergency duty, shall signal by a continuous blast or unnecessary sounding
of a horn, or other signaling device. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
   B.   Squealing Tires: No person shall operate a motor vehicle and no owner
of a motor vehicle shall permit or allow the operation of a motor vehicle in
such a manner or by such a method as to cause the tires on said motor vehicle
to make any loud, raucous, squealing, screeching noise or other sounds caused
by excessive acceleration from a stopped position or while a vehicle is in
motion. This section shall not apply to any noise or sounds caused by the tires
of a motor vehicle when the vehicle is confronted by an emergency making it
necessary to accelerate or stop the vehicle immediately or suddenly in order to
avoid contact with another motor vehicle or with a pedestrian, as long as the
emergency situation is not that of the driver's making. Any violation the
provisions of this subsection shall be a municipal infraction as provided for
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 98, 11-8-1983; amd. 2004 Code)
8-1-2-11: USE OF WARNING DEVICES AT NIGHT:
Loud warning devices, other than those used by an authorized emergency vehicle,
shall not be used during the period from one hour after sunset to one hour
before sunrise, unless absolutely necessary to avoid accidents. (Ord. 77, 9-4-
1973)
8-1-2-12: LIMITATIONS ON BACKING:
The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic. (Ord.
77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-2-13: DRIVING ACROSS SIDEWALKS, CROSSWALKS:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive into or upon any
sidewalk or crosswalk area, except at a regularly established roadway or
driveway between the curb lines. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-2-14: FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY:
The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic and the condition of the street. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-2-15: OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to approve the operation of
golf carts on the streets of the city, as authorized by Iowa Code 321.247.
   B.   Operation Of Golf Carts Permitted: Except as prohibited in subsection C
of this section, golf carts may be operated upon the streets of the city by
persons possessing a valid driver's license.
   C.   Prohibited Streets: Golf carts shall not be operated upon any city
street which is a primary road extension through the city, i.e., Iowa #S-56,
but shall be allowed to cross a city street which is a primary road extension
through the city.
   D.   Equipment: Golf carts shall be equipped with a slow moving vehicle
sign, a bicycle safety flag, shall be equipped with adequate brakes and shall
meet any other safety requirements imposed by the city council.
   E.   Hours: Golf carts may be operated on city streets only between sunrise
and sunset.
   F.   Registration: Golf carts operated on city streets are not required to
be registered. (Ord., 7-6-1982; amd. 2004 Code)
DIVISION 2. SPEED
8-1-3-1: OBEDIENCE TO SPEED LIMITS:
It shall be unlawful for any driver of a vehicle to exceed the speed limits
established in this division and appropriately posted. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-3-2: MINIMUM SPEED; POLICE PROCEDURES 1 :
No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law. Peace officers are
hereby authorized to enforce this provision by directions to drivers, and in
the event of apparent wilful disobedience to this provision and refusal to
comply with direction of an officer in accordance herewith, the continued slow
operation by a driver shall be an offense. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
 
Notes
1 1 IC § 321.294.
8-1-3-3: EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXEMPT:
None of the provisions of this division shall apply to authorized emergency
vehicles while the vehicle is being operated on official business. (Ord. 77, 9-
4-1973)
8-1-3-4: SPEED LIMITS TO BE POSTED:
It shall be the duty of the mayor or any person designated by him to cause
appropriate signs to be posted stating the speed limits established in this
division. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-3-5: LIMITS ESTABLISHED:
The following speed limits are established in the city:
   A.   In a business district, twenty (20) miles per hour. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
   B.   In a residence or school district, twenty five (25) miles per hour,
except:
      1.   On the portion of Main Street:
         a.   From the east edge of the city limits to a point one hundred
(100) yards east of the railroad tracks, forty five (45) miles per hour;
         b.   From a point one hundred (100) yards east of the railroad tracks
referred to in subsection B1a of this section to the intersection of County
Road D35 with County Highway S-56, thirty five (35) miles per hour;
         c.   From Sixth Street to a point one hundred (100) yards west of the
west edge of the Iowa River bridge, thirty five (35) miles per hour; and
         d.   From a point one hundred (100) yards west of the west edge of the
Iowa River bridge referred to in subsection B1c of this section to the west
edge of the city limits, forty five (45) miles per hour.
      2.   On First Street and County Highway S-56:
         a.   From the north edge of the city limits to a point on First Street
one hundred (100) yards to the south, thirty (30) miles per hour;
         b.   From a point on First Street one hundred (100) yards to the south
of the north edge of the city limits referred to in subsection B2a of this
section to the junction of County Highway S-56 and County Road D35, thirty (30)
miles per hour; and
         c.   From the junction of County Road D35 to the south edge of the
city limits on County Highway S-56, forty five (45) miles per hour. (Ord. 87,
3-14-1977)
   C.   In an alley, fifteen (15) miles per hour. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004
Code)
DIVISION 3. PASSING
8-1-4-1: OVERTAKING AT INTERSECTIONS 1 :
No vehicle shall, in overtaking and passing another vehicle or at any other
time, be driven to the left side of the roadway under the following conditions:
   A.   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the highway
where the driver's view along the highway is obstructed for a distance of
approximately seven hundred feet (700');
   B.   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of any narrow bridge,
viaduct or tunnel, when so signposted, or when approaching within one hundred
feet (100') of or traversing any intersection or railroad grade crossing;
   C.   Where official signs are in place directing that traffic keep to the
right or a distinctive centerline or off centerline is marked, which
distinctive line also so directs traffic as declared in the sign manual adopted
by the department of transportation. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1 IC § 321.304.
8-1-4-2: NO PASSING ZONES:
No vehicle shall be driven to the left half of the roadway in order to overtake
and pass another vehicle proceeding in the same direction in that part of a
street designated as a no passing zone. Such zones shall be marked with signs.
(Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-4-3: DUTY OF DRIVER UPON BEING OVERTAKEN 1 :
The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions and
special rules hereinafter stated:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
   B.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle and shall not increase the speed of his vehicle until
completely passed by the overtaking vehicle. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004
Code)
 
Notes
1 1 IC § 321.299.
8-1-4-4: FAILURE TO HEED SIGNAL; OVERTAKING VEHICLE:
Any driver of a vehicle that is overtaken by a faster moving vehicle who fails
to heed the signal of the overtaking vehicle when it is given under such
circumstances that he could, by the exercise of ordinary care and observation
and precaution, hear such signal and who fails to yield that part of the
traveled way as herein provided, shall be guilty of on offense. (Ord. 77, 9-4-
1973)
8-1-4-5: DUTY OF DRIVER, OVERTAKING ANOTHER:
The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not again
drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the overtaken
vehicle, except when passing on the right is permitted. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
DIVISION 4. STARTING, STOPPING AND TURNING
8-1-5-1: STARTING PARKED VEHICLE:
No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless and
until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-5-2: TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS 2 :
   A.   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do
so as follows:
      1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      2.   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right
half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to depart from the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
      3.   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street
shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection. A left turn from a one-way street into a two-way
street shall be made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street
being entered upon leaving the intersection.
   B.   The city council may cause markers, buttons or signs to be placed
within or adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct that a
different course from that specified in this section be traveled by vehicles
turning at an intersection, and when markers, buttons or signs are so placed,
no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as
directed and required by such markers, buttons or signs. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973;
amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
2 2 IC § 321.311.
8-1-5-3: WHEN SIGNAL REQUIRED 1 :
No person shall turn a vehicle from a direct course upon a highway unless and
until such movement can be made with reasonable safety and then only after
giving a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn if any pedestrian may be
affected by such movement or after giving an appropriate visual signal in the
event any other vehicle may be affected by such movement. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
 
Notes
1 1 IC § 321.314.
8-1-5-4: U-TURNS; PROCEDURE:
Turning vehicles around at places other than an intersection which is not a
through intersection is hereby prohibited; drivers of vehicles desiring to turn
the vehicles around shall proceed on the right hand side of the street to the
center of the next intersection, passing to the right of and beyond the center
of the intersection, before turning their vehicles and shall then proceed with
the traffic in the opposite direction. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
DIVISION 5. RIGHT OF WAY
8-1-6-1: INTERSECTIONS 2 :
   A.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by a
stop sign shall stop at the first opportunity at either the clearly marked stop
line or before entering the crosswalk or before entering the intersection or at
the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. Before proceeding, the driver shall yield the right of way to any
vehicle on the intersecting roadway which has entered the intersection or which
is approaching so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time
the driver is moving across or within the intersection.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow to a speed
reasonable for the existing conditions and, if required for safety, shall stop
at the first opportunity at either the clearly marked stop line or before
entering the crosswalk or before entering the intersection or at the point
nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching
traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or stopping, the driver
shall yield the right of way to any vehicle on the intersecting roadway which
has entered the intersection or which is approaching so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or
within the intersection. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
2 2 IC § 321.322.
8-1-6-2: ENTERING STREET FROM ALLEY, PRIVATE WAY:
The driver of any vehicle before entering a public street from an alley or
private driveway shall stop and ascertain that traffic will permit his entrance
into the street, and shall thereafter proceed with caution to the right and go
in the direction of the traffic or cross the street at right angles to enter
the alley on the opposite side of the street or, on crossing the street, turn
to the left and follow the traffic; where the view is obstructed, the driver
shall, immediately before entering the street from an alley or private
driveway, bring his vehicle to a full stop. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-6-3: PROCESSIONS 1 :
   A.   For purposes of this section "funeral procession" means a procession of
motor vehicles accompanying the body of a deceased person during daylight hours
which is being escorted by a vehicle continually displaying its emergency
signal lamps flashing simultaneously and using lighted head lamps and
identifying flags, and keeping all other motor vehicles with lighted head lamps
in close formation.
   B.   Upon the immediate approach of a funeral procession, the driver of
every other vehicle, except an authorized emergency vehicle, shall yield the
right of way.
   C.   An operator of a motor vehicle which is part of a funeral procession
shall not be charged with violating traffic rules and regulations relating to
traffic signals and devices while participating in the procession, unless the
operation is reckless.
   D.   The funeral home in charge of the funeral procession is liable only in
connection with the procession for any negligent, reckless or intentional act
by the funeral home or any employee or agent of the funeral home that results
in any death, personal injury or property damage suffered during a funeral
procession. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1 IC § 321.324A.
8-1-6-4: EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
Authorized emergency vehicles shall have the right of way at all times over
other vehicles, on a signal by a siren, whistle, klaxton or the ringing of a
bell; on hearing such signal, the driver of any vehicle shall drive it to the
right hand curb as closely as possible and not enter an alley, and in no
instance cross, or attempt to cross, any street intersection until the
authorized emergency vehicle shall have passed. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
ARTICLE III. SIGNS AND SIGNALS
8-1-7-1: OBEDIENCE TO SIGNS, SIGNALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to disobey the instructions of any
mechanical traffic signal, lettered traffic sign, or paint marks placed upon
the surface of the highway in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
or any barrier or sign erected by any of the public departments of the city.
(Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-7-2: PLACING TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS; CONFORMITY OF INSTALLATION:
Whenever in this chapter or by other code provisions, the erection of traffic
control signs and signals is required, it shall be the duty of the mayor or any
person so designated by him to cause the proper installation of such signs and
signals and the design and placement of all traffic signs and signals within
the city shall conform with the specifications and requirements of the state
highway commission. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-7-3: CROSSWALKS AND CROSSING AREAS:
It shall be the duty of the mayor or any person designated by him to keep all
crosswalks and intersections designated by ordinance appropriately marked upon
the pavement or upon the curbing abutting the street so as to warn drivers of
passing vehicles that they are approaching the vicinity of a crosswalk and to
slow down to a lawful rate of speed. The mayor or any person designated by him
is also authorized and required to establish and maintain, by paint marks upon
the surface of the paved roadway, crosswalks, approximately equal in width to
the adjacent sidewalks at all intersections. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004
Code)
8-1-7-4: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS; DEFACING:
It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to erect or display any device
upon or in view of any highway, which device is an imitation of an official
traffic sign, or which directs or purports to direct the action of operators of
vehicles or the movement of traffic, or to wilfully deface, injure, move or
interfere with any sign placed in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
ARTICLE IV. MOTOR VEHICLES
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
8-1-8-1: WINDSHIELDS AND WINDOWS 1 :
   A.   A person shall not drive a motor vehicle equipped with a windshield,
sidewings or side or rear windows which do not permit clear vision.
   B.   A person shall not operate on the highway a motor vehicle equipped with
a front windshield, a side window to the immediate right or left of the driver,
or a sidewing forward of and to the left or right of the driver which is
excessively dark or reflective so that it is difficult for a person outside the
motor vehicle to see into the motor vehicle through the windshield, window or
sidewing. The department shall adopt rules establishing a minimum measurable
standard of transparency which shall apply to violations of this subsection.
   C.   Every motor vehicle, except a motorcycle or a vehicle included in the
provisions of Iowa Code 321.383 or 321.115, shall be equipped with a windshield
in accordance with this section. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1 IC § 321.438.
8-1-8-2: DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES; EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to drive or move or for the owner to cause or
knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any street any vehicle or combination
of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person, or
which does not contain those parts or is not at all times equipped with such
lamps and other equipment in proper condition as required by state law. (Ord.
77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-8-3: EMERGENCY SIGNALING DEVICES 1 :
A vehicle shall not be equipped with and a person shall not use upon a vehicle
any siren, whistle or bell except as otherwise permitted in this section. It is
permissible but not required that any commercial vehicle be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which is so arranged that it cannot be used by the
driver as an ordinary warning signal. Any authorized emergency vehicle may be
equipped with a siren, whistle or bell capable of emitting sound audible under
normal conditions from a distance of not less than five hundred feet (500'),
but the siren, whistle or bell shall not be used except when the vehicle is
operated in response to an emergency call or in the immediate pursuit of an
actual or suspected violator of the law, and the driver of the vehicle shall
sound the siren, whistle or bell when necessary to warn pedestrians and other
drivers of the approach of the vehicle. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 2 IC § 321.433.
8-1-8-4: USE OF UNSAFE VEHICLES:
A vehicle's use is prohibited when so constructed, enclosed, equipped or loaded
as to be dangerous, retard traffic, spill its contents on the street or prevent
the driver from having a view sufficient for safety. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
DIVISION 2. SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD
8-1-9-1: WIDTH LIMITATION 1 :
The total outside width of a vehicle or the load on the vehicle shall not
exceed eight feet six inches (8'6"). This limitation on the total outside width
of a vehicle or the load on the vehicle does not include safety equipment on a
vehicle or incidental appurtenances or retracted awnings on motor homes, travel
trailers or fifth-wheel travel trailers if the incidental appurtenance or
retracted awning is less than six inches (6") in width. However, if hay, straw
or stover is moved on an implement of husbandry and the total width of the load
of the implement of husbandry exceeds eight feet six inches (8'6"), the
implement of husbandry is not subject to the permit requirements of Iowa Code
chapter 321E. If hay, straw or stover is moved on any other vehicle subject to
registration, the moves are subject to the permit requirements for transporting
loads exceeding eight feet six inches (8'6") in width as required under Iowa
Code chapter 321E. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1 IC § 321.454.
8-1-9-2: PROJECTING BODY, LOADS TO BE MARKED 1 :
No passenger type vehicle shall be operated on any highway with any load
carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of
such vehicle nor extending more than six inches (6") beyond the line of the
fenders on the right side thereof. Passengers shall not ride on any part of any
vehicle unless it is expressly designed either for passenger use or designed
for carrying livestock, merchandise or freight. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004
Code)
 
Notes
1 2 IC § 321.455.
8-1-9-3: WEIGHT LIMITATIONS 1 :
   A.   An axle may be divided into two (2) or more parts, except that all
parts in the same vertical transverse plane shall be considered as one axle.
   B.   The gross weight on any one axle of a vehicle, or of a combination of
vehicles, operated on the highway of the city, shall not exceed twenty thousand
(20,000) pounds on an axle equipped with pneumatic tires, and shall not exceed
fourteen thousand (14,000) pounds on an axle equipped with solid rubber tires.
The gross weight on any tandem axle of a vehicle, or any combination of
vehicles, shall not exceed thirty four thousand (34,000) pounds on an axle
equipped with pneumatic tires. This subsection does not apply to implements of
husbandry.
   C.   For all other vehicles, the provisions of Iowa Code 321.463 are
applicable within the city. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 3 IC § 321.463.
DIVISION 3. LIGHTS
8-1-10-1: HEADLIGHTS 1 :
   A.   Every motor vehicle upon a highway within the city, at any time from
sunset to sunrise, and at such other times when conditions such as fog, snow,
sleet or rain provide insufficient lighting to render clearly discernible
persons and vehicles on the highway at a distance of five hundred feet (500')
ahead, shall display lighted headlamps as provided in Iowa Code 321.415,
subject to exceptions with respect to parked vehicles as hereinafter stated.
   B.   Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the distance from
which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible or within which
such lamps or devices shall be visible, said provisions shall apply during the
times stated in subsection A of this section upon a straight level unlighted
highway under normal atmospheric conditions unless a different time or
condition is expressly stated. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1 IC § 321.384.
8-1-10-2: HEADLIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
The head lamps or the auxiliary driving lamp or the auxiliary passing lamp or
combination thereof on motor vehicles other than motorcycles, motor driven
cycles or snowmobiles, shall be so arranged that the driver may select at will
between distributions of light projected to different elevations and such lamps
may, in addition, be so arranged that such selection can be made automatically,
subject to the following limitations:
   A.   There shall be an uppermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
so aimed and of such intensity as to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance
of at least three hundred fifty feet (350') ahead for all conditions.
   B.   There shall be a lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam so
aimed and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance
of at least one hundred feet (100') ahead; on a straight level road under any
condition of loading, none of the high intensity portion of the beam shall be
directed to strike the eyes of an approaching driver. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-10-3: TAILLIGHTS; ILLUMINATION OF REGISTRATION PLATE 2 :
Every motor vehicle and every vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a
train of vehicles shall be equipped with a lighted rear lamp or lamps,
exhibiting a red light plainly visible from a distance of five hundred feet
(500') to the rear. All lamps and lighting equipment originally manufactured on
a motor vehicle shall be kept in working condition or shall be replaced with
equivalent equipment. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
2 2 IC § 321.387.
8-1-10-4: AUXILIARY DRIVING LAMPS 1 :
Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed three (3) auxiliary
driving lamps mounted on the front at a height not less than twelve inches
(12") nor more than forty two inches (42") above the level surface upon which
the vehicle stands, and every such auxiliary driving lamp or lamps shall meet
the requirements and limitations set forth in state law. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973;
amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1 IC § 321.403.
8-1-10-5: SPOT LAMPS 2 :
Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed one spot lamp and every
lighted spot lamp shall be so aimed and used upon approaching another vehicle
that no part of the high intensity portion of the beam will be directed to the
left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle nor more than
one hundred feet (100') ahead of the vehicle. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004
Code)
 
Notes
2 2 IC § 321.402.
8-1-10-6: CONFORMITY OF LIGHTING EQUIPMENT:
No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon the public highways of the city
equipped with an electric bulb or other lighting device not approved by the
commissioner of public safety of the state. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-10-7: TURNING OFF LIGHTS TO AVOID ARREST:
No driver of a motor vehicle shall turn off or extinguish any of the lights on
the vehicle for the purpose of avoiding arrest or identification. (Ord. 77, 9-
4-1973)
8-1-10-8: PARKED VEHICLES; ACCIDENT:
A red light shall be displayed on the rear of any motor vehicle parked or
standing on any public highway of the city from sunset to sunrise, unless the
highway where the vehicle is parked or standing shall be artificially lighted
to such an extent as clearly to indicate the presence of the parked vehicle;
however, where the parked vehicle is properly lighted and an accident
extinguishes the light required by this section and renders the vehicle
incapable of use, then the person in control of the vehicle shall place, at the
earliest possible opportunity after the accident, a proper light at or near the
vehicle which will give warning of the presence of the parked vehicle. (Ord.
77, 9-4-1973)
DIVISION 4. OTHER EQUIPMENT
8-1-11-1: MUFFLERS 3 :
Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped with a muffler in good
working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise
and annoying smoke, and no person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar
device upon a motor vehicle on any roadway. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
3 3 IC § 321.436.
8-1-11-2: BRAKES 1 :
   A.   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, when
operated upon a highway of the city shall be equipped with brakes adequate to
control the movement of and to stop and hold such vehicle, including two (2)
separate means of applying the brakes, each of which shall be effective to
apply the brakes to at least two (2) wheels. If these two (2) separate means of
applying the brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that
failure of any one part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor
vehicle without brakes on at least two (2) wheels.
   B.   Every motorcycle and motorized bicycle, when operated upon a highway of
the city, shall be equipped with at least one brake which may be operated by
hand or foot.
   C.   Iowa Code 321.430 shall govern all other vehicles and provisions
relating to brakes. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1 IC § 321.430.
8-1-11-3: HORNS AND WARNING DEVICES 1 :
Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway of the city shall be equipped
with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound audible under
normal conditions from a distance of not less than two hundred feet (200'), but
no horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound
or a whistle. The driver of a motor vehicle shall, when reasonably necessary to
ensure safe operation, give audible warning with the horn but shall not
otherwise use such horn when upon a highway. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004
Code)
 
Notes
1 1 IC § 321.432.
8-1-11-4: TIRES; PROJECTIONS 2 :
   A.   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle shall have rubber on its entire
traction surface at least one inch (1") thick above the edge of the flange of
the entire periphery. Any pneumatic tire on a vehicle shall be considered
unsafe if it has:
      1.   Any part of the ply or cord exposed;
      2.   Any bump, bulge or separation;
      3.   A tread design depth of less than one-sixteenth inch (1/16")
measured in any two (2) or more adjacent tread grooves, exclusive of tie bars
or, for those tires with tread wear indicators, worn to the level of the tread
wear indicators in any two (2) tread grooves;
      4.   A marking "not for highway use", "for racing purposes only", "unsafe
for highway use";
      5.   Tread or sidewall cracks, cuts or snags deep enough to expose the
body cord;
      6.   Such other conditions as may be reasonably demonstrated to render it
unsafe;
      7.   Been regrooved or recut below the original tread design depth,
excepting special tires which have extra undertread rubber and are identified
as such, or if a pneumatic tire was originally designed without grooves or
tread.
   B.   A vehicle, except an implement of husbandry, equipped with either solid
rubber or pneumatic tires shall not be operated where the weight per inch of
tire width is greater than five hundred seventy five (575) pounds per one inch
(1") of tire width based on the tire width rating, except on a steering axle,
in which case six hundred (600) pounds per one inch (1") of tire width is
permitted based on the tire width rating. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
2 2 IC § 321.440.   March 2021
8-1-11-5: USE OF ENGINE BRAKES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate or cause
to be used or operated within the City any engine brake, compression brake or
mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the braking or deceleration of any
vehicle that results in excessive, loud, unusual or explosive noise from the
vehicle. The usage of an engine brake, compression brake or mechanical exhaust
device designed to aid in braking or deceleration in a manner so as to be
audible at a distance of three hundred (300') feet from the motor vehicle shall
constitute evidence of a prima facie violation of this section. (Ord. 20-4, 7-
13-2020)
ARTICLE V. MOTORCYCLES 1
 
Notes
1 1 IC § 321.275.
8-1-12-1: HEADLIGHTS:
A person shall not operate a 1977 or later model year motorcycle or any model
year motorized bicycle upon the highways without displaying at least one
lighted headlamp of the type described in Iowa Code 321.409. However, this
section is subject to the exceptions with respect to parked vehicles as
provided in state law. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004 Code)
8-1-12-2: RIDING AND OPERATION:
   A.   General: The motor vehicle laws contained in this chapter apply to the
operators of motorcycles and motorized bicycles to the extent practically
applicable.
   B.   Riders:
      1.   Motorized Bicycles: A person operating a motorized bicycle on the
highways shall not carry any other person on the vehicle.
      2.   Motorcycles: A person shall not operate a motorcycle on the highways
with another person on the motorcycle unless the motorcycle is designed to
carry more than one person. The additional passenger may ride upon the
permanent and regular seat if designed for two (2) persons, or upon another
seat firmly attached to the motorcycle at the rear of the operator. The
motorcycle shall be equipped with footrests for the passenger unless the
passenger is riding in a sidecar or enclosed cab. The motorcycle operator shall
not carry any person nor shall any other person ride in a position that will
interfere with the operation or control of the motorcycle or the view of the
operator.
   C.   Sitting Position: A person operating a motorcycle or motorized bicycle
shall ride only upon the vehicle's permanent and regular attached seat. Every
person riding upon the vehicle shall be sitting astride the seat, facing
forward with one leg on either side of the vehicle.
   D.   Use Of Traffic Lanes: Persons shall not operate motorcycles or
motorized bicycles more than two (2) abreast in a single lane. Except for
persons operating such vehicles two (2) abreast, a motor vehicle shall not be
operated in a manner depriving a motorcycle or motorized bicycle operator of
the full use of a lane. A motorcycle or motorized bicycle shall not be operated
between lanes of traffic or between adjacent lines or rows of vehicles. The
operator of a motorcycle or motorized bicycle shall not overtake and pass in
the same lane occupied by the vehicle being overtaken unless the vehicle being
overtaken is a motorcycle or motorized bicycle.
   E.   Packages: The operator of a motorcycle or motorized bicycle shall not
carry any package, bundle or other article which prevents the operator from
keeping both hands on the handlebars.
   F.   Parades: The provisions of this section do not apply to motorcycles or
motorized bicycles when used in a parade authorized by proper permit from the
city council.
   G.   Bicycle Safety Flags On Motorized Bicycles: When operated on a highway,
a motorized bicycle shall have a bicycle safety flag which extends not less
than five feet (5') above the ground attached to the rear of the motorized
bicycle. The bicycle safety flag shall be triangular in shape with an area of
not less than thirty (30) square inches and be dayglo in color. (Ord. 77, 9-4-
1973; amd. 2004 Code)
ARTICLE VI. ACCIDENTS
8-1-13-1: DUTY OF DRIVER IN CASE OF ACCIDENT INVOLVING ANOTHER VEHICLE 1 :
The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in damage to a
vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall immediately stop such
vehicle at the scene of such accident or as close thereto as possible but shall
forthwith return to and in every event shall remain at the scene of such
accident until the driver has fulfilled the requirements of section 8-1-13-3 of
this chapter. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more
than is necessary. Any person failing to stop or comply with said requirements
under such circumstances shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as
provided in Idaho Code 321.482. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1 IC § 321.262.
8-1-13-2: DUTY OF DRIVER IN CASE OF ACCIDENT INVOLVING PERSONAL INJURY 2 :
   A.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury
to or death of any person shall immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of
the accident, or as close as possible, and if able, shall then return to and
remain at the scene of the accident in accordance with Iowa Code 321.263. Every
such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
   B.   Any person failing to stop or to comply with the requirements of
subsection A of this section, in the event of an accident resulting in any
injury to any person, is guilty upon conviction of a serious misdemeanor.
   C.   A person failing to stop or to comply with the requirements of
subsection A of this section, in the event of an accident resulting in the
death of a person, is guilty upon conviction of an aggravated misdemeanor.
(Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
2 2 IC § 321.261.
8-1-13-3: ACCIDENT REPORTS 1 :
   A.   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to
or death of any person shall immediately by the quickest means of communication
give notice of such accident to the sheriff of the county in which said
accident occurred, or the nearest officer of the state highway safety patrol,
or to any other peace officer as near as practicable to the place where the
accident occurred.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to
or death of any person, or total property damage to an apparent extent of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or more shall, within seventy two (72) hours after
such accident, forward a written report of such accident to the department.
However, such report is not required when the accident is investigated by a law
enforcement agency.
   C.   Every law enforcement officer who, in the regular course of duty,
investigates a motor vehicle accident of which report must be made as required
in this section, either at the time of and at the scene of the accident or
thereafter by interviewing participants or witnesses shall, within twenty four
(24) hours after completing such investigation, forward a written report of
such accident to the department. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1 IC § 321.266.
ARTICLE VII. PEDESTRIANS
8-1-14-1: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC OFFICERS, SIGNALS 2 :
Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals at intersections but at
all other places pedestrians shall be accorded the privileges and shall be
subject to the restrictions stated in Iowa Code 321.327 to 321.331. (Ord. 77,
9-4-1973; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
2 2 IC § 321.325.
ARTICLE VIII. ONE-WAY STREETS
8-1-15-1: ESTABLISHING ONE-WAY STREETS:
One-way streets shall be those as the city council may from time to time
designate, and shall be shown on a map to be kept in the office of the city
clerk. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-15-2: SIGNS TO BE POSTED; LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
Whenever any ordinance of the city designates any one-way street or alley, the
mayor or any person designated by him shall place and maintain signs giving
notice thereof, and no ordinance establishing one-way streets shall be
effective unless signs required by this section are in place. Signs indicating
the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection
where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited. (Ord. 77, 9-
4-1973)
8-1-15-3: OBEDIENCE TO SIGNS:
It shall be unlawful for any driver of a vehicle to proceed on a one-way street
in a direction opposite to the direction of traffic as indicated by signs
erected pursuant to this article. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
ARTICLE IX. STOP AND THROUGH STREETS
8-1-16-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF THROUGH STREETS:
Through streets shall be established from time to time by the city council and
those streets intersecting a through street shall be marked with a stop sign or
other appropriate traffic control device. Through streets and stop streets
shall be shown on a map maintained in the office of the city clerk. (Ord. 77,
9-4-1973)
8-1-16-2: PLACING SIGNS OR DEVICES:
It shall be the duty of the mayor or any person so designated by him to cause
suitable stop signs or appropriate traffic control devices to be erected upon
those streets which intersect through streets so designated by the city
council. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-16-3: OBSERVANCE BY DRIVER:
No driver of any vehicle shall enter upon or cross any stop boulevard or stop
intersection, which shall be marked with signs or other traffic control
devices, without first bringing his vehicle to a full and complete stop at or
near the line of intersection of the intersecting street upon which he is
approaching and shall yield the right of way to any oncoming vehicle. (Ord. 77,
9-4-1973)
ARTICLE X. PARKING
8-1-17-1: PROHIBITED PARKING PLACES ENUMERATED:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
   A.   On a sidewalk.
   B.   In front of a public or private driveway.
   C.   Within an intersection.
   D.   Within five feet (5') of a fire hydrant.
   E.   On a crosswalk.
   F.   Within ten feet (10') upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway.
   G.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing,
except when parked parallel with such rail and not exhibiting a red light.
   H.   Within ten feet (10') of the driveway entrance to any fire station.
   I.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
   J.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street.
   K.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking, the
signs having been erected pursuant to an ordinance of the city council. (Ord.
77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-17-2: NO PARKING AREAS TO BE DESIGNATED:
All no parking areas shall be designated as such by appropriate signs or
markings, and it shall be the duty of the mayor or any person designated by him
to cause no parking signs to be erected at the no parking areas, or appropriate
markings made. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-17-3: MANNER OF PARKING:
Unless otherwise authorized, no vehicle shall park upon any street unless the
front wheel thereof shall be within eighteen inches (18") of the curb, and no
vehicle shall stop in such a way as to obstruct the free passage of traffic on
the street. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-17-4: DOUBLE PARKED DEFINED:
When a vehicle is standing on a roadway in such a manner that it is outside a
parking space or the wheels nearest the curb are more than eighteen inches
(18") from the curb it shall be termed "double parked". On streets without
curbs, any vehicle parked within ten feet (10') of the centerline shall be
termed "double parked". (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-17-5: DOUBLE PARKING:
Double parking is prohibited upon all streets except in an emergency, and then
only if an operator capable of moving the vehicle remains therein. (Ord. 77, 9-
4-1973)
8-1-17-6: UNATTENDED VEHICLES:
The operator or other person in charge of any motor vehicle shall not leave the
same unattended upon any public highway in the city with the engine running.
(Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-17-7: IMPOUNDING OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES:
Any peace officer is hereby authorized to take charge of any unattended vehicle
parked in violation of any provisions of this chapter and cause the vehicle to
be towed to a city lot or to privately owned lot or garage which holds itself
out to the public as a place to store automobiles. All expenses incurred as a
result of towing and storing an impounded automobile shall be paid by the owner
of the automobile prior to the return of the automobile. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-17-8: PARKING IN PROXIMITY TO RAILROAD:
The driver of any vehicle displaying a red light shall not leave the same
standing parallel to and within twenty five feet (25') of the tracks of any
railroad. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
8-1-17-9: DIAGONAL PARKING; LENGTH OF VEHICLE:
It shall be unlawful to park any truck, truck and trailer or car and trailer,
whose overall length is greater than twenty feet (20') upon any street in the
city where diagonal parking is designated or permitted. (Ord. 77, 9-4-1973)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Removal Of Illegally Parked Or Abandoned Vehicles
8-2-3: Angle Parking
8-2-4: Parking During Snow Removal
8-2-5: Stored Vehicles
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes hereof the following terms shall have the meanings herein ascribed
to them:
OPERATOR: Includes every individual who shall operate a vehicle as the owner
thereof, or as agent, employee or permittee of the owner.
PARKING: Any standing of a vehicle upon a street, whether such vehicle is
occupied or not, and whether such vehicle be accompanied or not by an operator
for a period of time in excess of two (2) minutes.
STREET: Any public street, avenue, alley, road, boulevard or other public place
located in the city and established for the use of vehicles.
VEHICLE: Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported upon a street or highway except a device which is operated upon
rails or tracks. (1975 Code)
8-2-2: REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES:
   A.   In the event that any vehicle is parked, abandoned or left unoccupied
or unattended in violation of this title, the mayor or any police officer is
hereby authorized to remove or cause to be removed the said vehicle and to tow,
or have towed, or otherwise removed, the said vehicle to any public or private
garage or parking area, and to have said vehicle stored in such garage or
parking area until claimed by the owner thereof as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Within twenty four (24) hours after the removal of any vehicle as
provided in this section, the city clerk shall send a notice addressed to the
registered owner and deposited in the post office in the city, which notice
shall contain the following facts:
      1.   A general description of the vehicle together with the license
number;
      2.   The time and reason for removal and the place to which said vehicle
was removed;
      3.   The charge for removal.
   C.   Before any vehicle shall be reclaimed, the owner or other claimant
shall satisfactorily identify himself and establish his right, title or
interest in said vehicle, and shall pay all costs or charges in connection with
the removal and storage of the vehicle.
   D.   No person shall reclaim a vehicle removed and stored as provided herein
without first paying the costs of towing and storage. (1975 Code; amd. 2004
Code)
8-2-3: ANGLE PARKING:
It shall be the duty of the operator of a motor vehicle to park the same so
that the right hand side of the motor vehicle shall stand at an angle of
approximately forty five degrees (45°) with the curb and the front right wheel
as close to the curb as possible on the following streets:
   Market Street from Third Street to Sixth Street (1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
In the event that the city causes parking lines to be painted upon the
abovementioned portions of said streets, it shall be the duty of the operator
of a motor vehicle to park said vehicle between said lines so that no portion
of the body of the vehicle intersects the painted line.
It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle on any other
streets, avenues or portions thereof, not aforementioned, unless the right side
of said vehicle is next to and parallel with the curb and as near thereto as
conditions of the street will permit. (1975 Code)
8-2-4: PARKING DURING SNOW REMOVAL:
When snow or ice or a combination of the two has accumulated to a level of two
inches (2") or more, it shall be unlawful for any person to park, abandon or
leave unoccupied or unattended any vehicle, except emergency vehicles, on the
residential streets in the City until the traveled portion of the streets has
been completely plowed. (1975 Code; amd. 2004 Code)
Any vehicle parked, abandoned or left unoccupied or unattended in violation of
this section is hereby declared to be an obstruction to the public streets and
a public nuisance, and the Mayor is hereby authorized to remove or cause to be
removed the said vehicle to a private garage or parking area until claimed by
the owner thereof as hereinafter provided. (1975 Code)
If a vehicle is parked in the City right-of-way during snow removal a Municipal
infraction will be charged. If a vehicle is parked in the City right-of-way
during snow removal and damage occurs to it due to authorized snow equipment,
the City is not liable for damages incurred. (Ord. 19-3, 1-14-2019)
Within twenty four (24) hours after the removal of a vehicle as provided above,
the City Clerk shall send a notice addressed to the registered owner and
deposited in the Post Office at Steamboat Rock, Iowa, which notice shall
contain the following facts:
   A.   A general description of the vehicle, together with the license number.
   B.   The time and reason for removal and the place where said vehicle is
stored.
   C.   The charges for removal and storage.
Before any vehicle so removed and stored shall be reclaimed, the owner or other
claimant shall satisfactorily identify himself and establish his right, title
or interest in said vehicle, and shall further pay the costs of towing and
storage, and no person shall reclaim any vehicle so removed and stored without
first paying the towing and storage charges. (1975 Code)
8-2-5: STORED VEHICLES:
Any owner storing a vehicle on his property must keep such stored vehicle
within a garage or enclosed structure. (2004 Code)
 
